
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 83, Issue 2, pages 113-214. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:83+issue:2+year:1987&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Christamore: An Indiana Settlement House from Private Dream to Public Agency
            
                    ∗
                    Ruth Hutchinson Crocker
                
            Studies of the settlement movement have tended to be of the snapshot variety, portraits of the
                    movement in the full flower of enthusiasm of the 1890s when the settlement house embodied a
                    generation's hopes for the cooperative transformation of society. While the contributions
                    of the settlements to progressive reform have been well documented, the connections between the
                    settlement movement and the emerging institutions of professional social work in the twentieth
                    century remain largely unexplored. The history of Christamore, a college settlement in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , sheds some light on this connection and reveals how settlements evolved into
                    semipublic agencies in post-World War I America.1
            
            When Anna Stover and Edith Surbey founded a settlement house that they named Christamore in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1905, the college settlements of 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Philadelphia
                     were already well established, and 
                        Chicago
                    's Hull House settlement was becoming a national institution.2 The history of Christamore provides an 
                  
                     ∗ Ruth Hutchinson Crocker is assistant professor of
                            history, 
                                Auburn
                             University, 
                        Auburn, Alabama
                     . Research for this paper was
                            completed with the help of David Ross Fellowships from Purdue University and a dissertation
                            fellowship from the Indiana Historical Society.
                  
                     1 The best overview of the settlement movement before World War I is
                            Allen F. Davis, Spearheads for Reform: The Social Settlements and the
                                Progressive Mouement, 1890–1914 (
                                New York
                            , 1967). For the settlement movement after 1918 see Clarke A. Chambers, Seedtime of Reform: American Social Service and Social Action,
                            1918–1933 (
                                Minneapolis
                            , 1963). A long-term study of one settlement house is Jon A. Peterson,
                            "From Social Settlement to Social Agency: Settlement Work in 
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1898–1958," Social Service
                                Review, XXXIX (June, 1965), 191-208. The professionalization of social work is the
                            theme of Roy A. Lubove, The Professional Altruist: The Emergence of Social Work
                                as a Career (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1965). A recent organizational history which connects changes in social
                            work with structural changes in the political economy is Guy Alchon, The
                                Invisible Hand of Planning: Capitalism, Social Science, and the State in the 1920s (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1985).
                  
                     2 The first 
                                United States
                             settlement house was the Neighborhood Guild (later the University Settlement),
                            founded in 
                                New York
                             in 1886. Hull House opened in
               
                     example of how the settlement idea was capable of inspiring
                    women reformers to come together and build the institutions which became the prototypes for
                    twentieth-century social work. This paper will begin by examining some of the common conditions that
                    led to the founding of settlements in dozens of American cities in the early years of this century,
                    and then it will describe Christamore's evolution from a religiously motivated institution
                    of community re-form to a social agency staffed by professionals engaged in community service.
            Jane Addams did not originate the idea of a college settlement, but more than anyone else Addams
                    provided a generation of college-educated, single women with the vocabulary of obligation and
                    philosophy of action which explained and justified the new institutions. Two essays by Jane Addams,
                    "The Subjective Necessity for Social Settlements" (1892) and "The College
                    Woman and the Family Claim" (1898), analyze the impulse behind the settlement movement.
                    Addams suggested in these essays that settlements were as important in meeting the emotional and
                    intellectual needs of the settlement workers as in providing the material wants of the poor, the
                    settlements' clients. "There is a heritage of noble obligation which young people
                    accept and long to perpetuate," she wrote. "The desire for action, the wish to
                    right wrongs and alleviate suffering haunts them daily."3 Men could
                    follow the call to service in many fields—in the ministry, the professions, or business.
                    Women, however, were thwarted when they tried to pursue these ideals; schooled in the seriousness of
                    duty and service, they emerged from college to find themselves bound by the "family
                    claim." Their talents, their altruism, must be exercised only within the family. The result
                    was a sense of uselessness and unhappiness. "To shut oneself away from that half of the
                    race life is to shut oneself away from the most vital part of it; it is to live out but half the
                    humanity to which we have been born heir and to use but half our faculties.4
            
            
               
                  
                            Chicago
                         in September, 1889; the College Settlement, 
                            New York
                        , in 1889; North-western University Settlement, in 1891; and College Settlement, 
                            Philadelphia
                        , in 1899. Robert A. Woods and Albert J. Kennedy, Handbook of
                            Settlements (
                            New York
                        , 1911). On Hull House, see Jane Addams, Twenty Years at Hull House:
                            With Auto-biographical Notes (orig. 1910; 
                            New York
                        , 1960); Allen F. Davis, American Heroine: The Life and Legend of Jane
                            Addams (
                            New York
                        , 1973); Jill Conway, "Jane Addams: An American Heroine," in
                        Robert Jay Lifton, ed., The Woman in America (
                            Boston
                        , 1967).
               
                  3 Jane Addams, "The College Woman and the Family Claim,"
                            The Commons, III (September 5, 1898), 3-5; idem, Twenty Years
                            at Hull House, 93; idem, "The Subjective Necessity for Social
                        Settlements," in Jane Addams et al., Philanthropy and Social Progress (
                            New York
                        , 1893), 1-26; Staughton Lynd, "Jane Addams and the Radical
                        Impulse," Commentary XXXII (July, 1961), 54-59.
               
                  4 Addams, Twenty Years at Hull House, 92; idem,
                        "The College Woman and the Family Claim," 3-5; Joyce Antler,
                        "‘After College, What?’ New Graduates and the Family
                        Claim," American Quarterly, XXXII (Fall, 1980), 409-34.
            
            
            When Addams described the force behind the settlement movement as women's sense of
                    obligation combined with a desire to put theory into action, she identified an acute crisis among
                    college women of her time: in an age which worshipped activity, mobility, and self-improvement,
                    women were defined as passive, constant, and self-sacrificing—the mirror image of the
                    qualities characteristic of exuberant capitalism.5 True, one barrier had fallen
                    when women had been admitted to higher education, but the new female graduates emerged from college
                    with a conviction that they had a special contribution to make to society only to come up against a
                    brick wall of convention. The result was often psychological and even physical illness such as Jane
                    Addams herself suffered for eight years between her graduation and the founding of Hull House in
                        1889.6
            
            No development better illustrates this conflict and its resolution than the founding in 1890 of the
                    College Settlement Association by a group of alumnae of eastern schools, especially Wellesley,
                    Vassar, and Smith. In language very similar to that of Jane Addams, the association promoted college
                    settlements as institutions that would fill the special needs of female college graduates and save
                    them from morbid thoughts and wasted lives. "Here could be focused all that desire for
                    philanthropic work which exists in a marked degree among us, and, for lack of proper outlet, is
                    largely self consuming," declared the founders of the College Settlement Association in
                    February, 1889. "Here could come the young graduate, fresh from the class room of
                    economics, to supplement by a year of actual experience and practical training, the theoretical work
                    of the college."7 The advocates of college settlements asserted that
                    college women were fitted for settlement work both through 
                  
                     5 Martha Vicinus, Independent Women: Work and Community
                                for Single Women, 1850–1920 (
                                London
                            , 1985) is an excellent treatment of this theme, though dealing with the English
                            experience. Vicinus argues that a "passion for meaningful work" was the
                            "sacred center of nineteenth-century single women's lives and communities.
                            It was the means out of the garden, out of idleness, out of ignorance, and into wisdom,
                            service, and adventure." Ibid., 1. See also Sheila M. Rothman,
                                Women's Proper Place: A History of Changing Ideals and Practices,
                                1870 to the Present (
                                New York
                            , 1978), 63-93.
                  
                     6 Davis, American Heroine, 24-37. Alice 
                                Hamilton
                            's life provides another example. Her letters reveal a struggle to find
                            satisfying work that lasted a decade. See Barbara Sicherman, ed., Alice 
                                    Hamilton
                                : A Life in Letters (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1984), 135-36.
                  
                     7 "An Appeal for a New Work," February 12, 1889,
                            Vol. 1-7, College Settlements Association Annual Reports (Vassar College
                            Library, Poughkeepsie, 
                                New York
                            ). The Woman's Journal, announcing the founding of
                            Hull House, commented: "One of its chief aims will be to make it also a retreat for
                            other young women, who need rest and change or who desire a safe refuge from the inordinate
                            demands of society, in whom it is believed that a glimpse of the reverse side of life, of
                            the poverty and struggles of half the people, will beget a broader philanthropy and a
                            tenderer sympathy, and [will] leave less time and inclination for retrospection, for selfish
                            ambition, or for real or fancied invalidism." Quoted in Davis, American Heroine, 63.
               
                     their intellectual preparation and their natural sympathies.
                    "By virtue of their womanhood they are bound to minister with tenderness to all human
                    needs, while by virtue of their intellectual training they must take an interest in all sociological
                    questions, broad, intelligent and practical."8
            
            The College Settlement Association announced itself with a manifesto which displayed both idealism
                    and determination. "Educated women mean neither to shut themselves up in complacent
                    enjoyment of their advantages, nor to confine their energies to the one channel of
                    teaching," it declared. "Fully alive to the deepest and highest ideals of the
                    modern world, they mean to help forward such ideals so far as in them lies."9
            
            The college settlement idea was a smashing success: eighty young women applied for the six residence
                    positions in the 
                        New York
                     Settlement in 1890–1891.10 The settlements were popular
                    because they combined the homely atmosphere of a small college dormitory with high intellectual and
                    moral purpose. Moreover, settlements expanded the experience of the residents while assuring them
                    the respectability of a collective, feminine institution that resembled a college residence hall.
                    One resident even referred to the settlement house as a "graduate school in
                        life."11 The respect-ability veiled a more radical project,
                    however. For settlement work differed from other forms of philanthropic work by requiring those who
                    wanted to help the poor to live among them. It was a revolutionary idea for its time, but one with
                    tremendous appeal to what one historian has called a generation hungry for authentic experience.12
            
            
               
                  8"An Appeal for a New Work." See also Herman F. Hegner,
                        "The Scientific Value of the Social Settlement," American Journal
                            of Sociology, III (September, 1897), 171-82; Roberta 
                            Frankfort
                        , Collegiate Women: Domesticity and Career in Turn-of-the-Century
                            America (
                            New York
                        , 1977), 85-103.
               
                  9"An Appeal for a New Work"; Helen Hiscock Backus,
                        "The Need and the Opportunity for College-Trained Women in Philanthropic Work"
                        (Paper delivered to the 
                            New York
                         Association of College Alumnae, March 19, 1887, in Association of Collegiate
                        Alumnae Papers, Sophia Smith Collection, Smith College Women's History Archive,
                                
                     Northampton, Massachusetts
                  ). Teaching was the career choice of 86
                        percent of Bryn Mawr graduates who were in paid occupations. The result was overcrowding of the
                        profession and consequently low pay, uncertain tenure, and de-moralization. Kate Halladay
                        Claghorn, "The Problem of Occupation for College Women," Educational Review, XV (March, 1898), 217-30.
               
                  10 John P. Rousmaniere, "Cultural Hybrid in the Slums: The
                        College Woman and the Settlement House, 1889–1894," American
                            Quarterly, XXII (Spring, 1970), 62; Jill Conway, "Women Reformers and American
                        Culture, 1870–1930," Journal of Social History, V (Winter,
                        1971–1972), 164-77.
               
                  11 Rousmaniere, "Cultural Hybrid in the Slums." See also
                        Robert A. Woods, "The University Settlement Idea," in Addams et
                            al., Philanthropy and Social Progress, 57-97; Vicinus, Independent
                        Women, 229-31.
               
                  12 T. J. Jackson Lears, No Place of Grace: Anti-Modernism and
                            the Transformation of American Culture, 1880–1920 (
                            New York
                        , 1981). Jane Addams described herself after graduation as "clinging only
                        to the desire to live in a really living world and refusing to be content with a shadowy
                        intellectual or aesthetic reflection
            
            
            Although there is no evidence that Christamore's creators were directly inspired by these
                    more famous settlements, the establishment of Christamore fits the pattern found elsewhere. To a
                    remark-able extent, the early experiences and careers of 
                        Indianapolis
                     settlement workers Anna Stover and Edith Surbey replicated Jane Addams's
                    experience. Like Addams, Anna Stover passed through the frustration of inactivity, mental
                    depression, physical illness, and even breakdown to arrive at the "creative
                    solution" of a moral reform institution that combined intellectual endeavor with strenuous
                    action and created an atmosphere of strong feminine companionship.13 Life in a
                    settlement house enabled young women like Surbey and Stover to put their religious principles into
                    action and to move out into the public sphere in a way that departed radically from the confined
                    lives of their mothers and grandmothers.14
            
            Anna Stover was born in 1870 in the small central Indiana town of 
                        Ladoga
                    . Her father was a successful and important man. He was a lawyer, businessman, and
                    member of the Indiana legislature. But religion, not worldly success, ruled the Stover house-hold.
                    The Stovers were "Campbellites," members of the Disciples of Christ denomination.
                    Anna's father was president of the Indiana State Christian Ministerial Association and a
                    trustee of 
                        Butler
                     University in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a Disciples denominational school. Anna's two half-brothers were preachers in
                    the Christian church, and her sister married a preacher.15
            
            Anna Stover trained as a kindergarten teacher and for a while taught in her home town of 
                        Ladoga
                    . But at the age of twenty, while she was at 
                        Butler
                     University studying for a further degree, she contracted typhoid fever and almost died.
                    Looking back on this illness later in life, Anna Stover was convinced that it had marked a turning
                    point in her life. Lying delirious and near death, she had had a vision of her dead sister calling
                    through fleecy clouds, "Not 
                  of it." Addams, Twenty Years At Hull House, 59; Jean Quandt has
                            pointed out that the college settlement combined the progressive drive for reform with its
                            insistence on useful, applied knowledge. See Jean Quandt, From the Small Town
                                to the Great Community: The Social Thought of Progressive Intellectuals (
                                New Brunswick
                            , N.J., 1970), 13-20.
                  
                     13 The phrase "creative solution" is historian Allen
                            F. Davis's. See Davis, American Heroine, 38-52.
                  
                     14 Vicinus emphasizes the radical nature of settlement life for the
                            early settlers. Although they were single, some settlement workers like Jane Addams
                            frequently played the role of "mothers." But settlement workers were
                            "not mothers living in surrogate families," according to Vicinus. Instead,
                            she contends: "They were hard-working, ambitious, and visionary women setting forth
                            with great courage upon untrodden paths. But they were also intensely conflicted, deeply
                            emotional women, seeking to fulfill themselves in ways society would approve while still
                            moving beyond its limitations." Vicinus, Independent Women, 44.
                  
                     15 The material on Anna Stover and Edith Surbey is from: Anna Stover
                            and Edith Surbey, "Remembrances," n.d., typescript. (In the possession of
                            Mr. Ray Spencer, Director of Christamore from 1955–1965, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana).
               
                     yet!" When she eventually recovered, Anna Stover was
                    convinced that her life had been spared for a purpose, and she determined to dedicate herself to
                    religious social work. After earning an M.A. in Physical Culture, she obtained the position of
                    general secretary of the Y.M.C.A. in 
                        Williamsport
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and later obtained the same position in the 
                  London, Ontario
               , Y.M.C.A.16 While she was attending the Summer Moody Bible Institute in 
                        Chicago
                    , Stover underwent a spiritual crisis and conversion experience. "I realized
                    for the first time the full assurance of my salvation," she wrote.17
                    The conversion experience did not end her bouts of depression, however. More nervous trouble
                    followed, and in 1902, while serving as director of the Locust Point Social Settlement in 
                        Baltimore
                    , Stover suffered a complete nervous breakdown. Her gradual recovery coincided with a
                    growing resolve to establish Christamore and a deepening affection for Edith Surbey, another
                    idealistic young woman.
            Anna Stover first met Edith Surbey when both of them were students at 
                        Butler
                     College. The two young women developed an intense friendship during their student days
                    despite their widely differing views on religion. While Stover was intensely religious, Surbey
                    described herself as a lapsed Catholic, and while Stover came from a pious family that was active in
                    their denomination, Surbey wrote that, "Religion in our family was a synonym for
                    hypocrisy." Their friendship lapsed as the two young women went their separate ways after
                    graduation in 1894. Stover went back to 
                        Ladoga
                    , and Surbey attended the Kindergarten and Primary Training School (a "Normal
                    School" for teacher training), where she eventually became a member of the faculty.18
            
            In 1900 Surbey underwent a religious conversion at the Moody Institute. After this conversion
                    experience Surbey joined with Stover to create plans for a settlement house in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The two women became deeply attached to each other. Surbey confided in a private
                    memoir, "My soul was knit to hers in a true ‘David and Jonathan’ love
                    and friendship." Like Jane Addams and Lillian Wald, Stover and Surbey drew energy for their
                    work from their 
                  
                     16 Stover and Surbey, "Remembrances."
                            Stover's obituary is in the 
                        
                                    Butler
                                 Alumnus, XXXIV (October 1, 1944), 13.
                  
                     17 Stover and Surbey, "Remembrances."
                  
                     18 C. B. Coleman, "The College Settlement in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," Indiana Bulletin of Charities and Corrections,
                            LXXIX (December, 1909), 432-33. The Kindergarten Training School was founded by Eliza Blaker
                            in 1884 and was known as "Mrs. Blaker's College" and later as
                            Teachers' College of 
                                Indianapolis
                            . It became affiliated with 
                                Butler
                             University in 1930. Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition:
                                The Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth, 1880–1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 422.
               
                     loving, supportive relationship which would last for almost
                    forty years.19
            
            February, 1905, saw the two friends installed in a rented room on Roosevelt Avenue in the working
                    class Atlas district of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . "Our recreation at this time was drawing plans for a Settlement
                    House," Stover wrote.20 They surrounded themselves with other young
                    women who were interested in their scheme—student teachers from the Normal School, 
                        Butler
                     College students and alumnae, and teachers from the nearby 
                        Washington
                     Public School. There was no more sign of the mental trouble from which Anna Stover had
                    suffered. Planning the settlement house and managing the physically demanding and often dirty tasks
                    of the first few years were a challenge which drove away thoughts of illness, just as developing
                    Hull House had done for the former invalid, Jane Addams.21
            
            In May, 1905, the two women rented a five room house on Arsenal Avenue in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and launched the settlement house which they called "Christamore."22 Several years of careful planning had preceded their move. They had the
                    backing of several prominent 
                        Indianapolis
                     leaders including Professor Calvin Kendall of the public schools and Eliza Blaker of
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Free Kindergarten Association, who had agreed to open a branch of the kindergarten at
                    their settlement.23 They also secured the support of Charles S. Grout, secretary
                    of the Charity Organization Society, 
                  
                     19 Stover and Surbey, "Remembrances"; Vicinus, Independent Women, 34-38. There is no evidence concerning whether Stover
                            and Surbey's relationship became a sexual one or remained platonic. In her study of
                            nineteenth-century female relationships, Carroll Smith-Rosenberg wrote,
                            "Paradoxically to twentieth century minds, their love appears to have been both
                            sensual and platonic." Carroll Smith-Rosenberg, "The Female World of Love
                            and Ritual: Relations Between Women in Nineteenth Century America," Signs, I (Autumn, 1975), 313. The older view that women reformers had sublimated
                            all their sexual energy into municipal improvement and other reforms and lived in the
                            settlements like "Protestant nuns" is no longer accepted. The relationship
                            between Stover and Surbey perhaps paralleled the forty-year relationship between Jane Addams
                            and Mary Rozet Smith: they did not sublimate sexual passion in their work, but drew energy
                            for their work from their loving, supportive (and perhaps sensual) relationship. Blanche
                            Wiesen Cook, "Fe-male Support Networks and Political Activism: Lillian Wald,
                            Crystal Eastman, Emma Goldman," in Nancy F. Cott and Elizabeth Pleck, eds., A Heritage of Her Own: Toward a New Social History of American Women (
                                New York
                            , 1979), 419; Kathryn Kish Sklar, "Hull House in the 1890s: A Community
                            of Women Reformers," Signs, X (Summer, 1985), 658-77; Vicinus,
                                Independent Women, 34-36.
                  
                     20 Anna Stover, "Reminiscent History of Christamore the
                            College Settlement from 1905 to 1911," 1911, typescript, p. 7 (Copy in the
                            possession of the author.).
                  
                     21 Davis, American Heroine, 38-39.
                  
                     22 Stover, "Reminiscent History."
                  
                     23
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Free Kindergarten and Children's Aid Society, Superintendent's Report for June 26, 1906 to March 31, 1908, 
                                Indianapolis
                             Free Kindergarten and Children's Aid Society Records (Indiana
                            Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ); cited hereafter as Free Kindergarten Records. For Eliza Blaker see Emma Lou
                            Thornbrough, Eliza A. Blaker: Her Life and Work (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1965).
               
                     and of Evaline Holliday, socially prominent wife of the former
                    editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News. Eliza Browning, head of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Public Library, agreed to supply the settlement house with library books.24
            
            The location of the house was influenced by the encouragement of the largest employer in the
                    district, Hugh Hanna of the Atlas Engine Works, whose firm employed nearly a thousand men.25 In this area of about one square mile northeast of downtown were the Atlas
                    Engine Works at Nineteenth Street and Martindale Avenue, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Stove Works, two lumber yards, planing mills, and a bottling works.26 The area contained only a handful of immigrants, but its black population was growing
                    rapidly. There were several white and a few black churches, and a public school, described by a
                    minister as "one of the smallest and oldest and most poorly equipped school buildings in
                    the city." The district's streets were all unpaved, and it was estimated that
                    there were between fifteen and twenty saloons.27
            
            Housing conditions, though not crowded, left much to be de-sired. Only about 20 percent of the houses
                    were connected to the city water or sewer systems, and only 5 percent had indoor plumbing. The area
                    was predominantly one of renters, most of them re-cent arrivals. Unemployment and poverty plagued
                    black families the most, for the Atlas Engine Works employed only white men. But even for whites the
                    economic situation of the district became precarious when the Atlas Works began to reduce its work
                    force; by 1910 it was running only part time.28
            
            One settlement house had already been founded and abandoned close by. Its sponsor, the Reverend
                    Carlos Rowlinson, pastor of the Third Christian Church, left a picture of the neighborhood in 1901
                    which, though overdrawn, illustrates how an urban missionary viewed the challenge of the city.
            
               
                  24 For John H. Holliday see Jacob Piatt Dunn, Greater 
                                Indianapolis
                            : The History, the Industries, the Institutions, and the People of a City of
                            Homes (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1910), I, 1008. By one of those ironies best enjoyed by social historians, Charles
                        S. Grout, Secretary of the 
                            Indianapolis
                         Charity Organization Society from 1893 to 1916, was employed as a timekeeper at the
                        Atlas Engine Works. Dunn, Greater 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  , II, 654-55.
               
                  25
                        Christamore: The College Settlement Association of 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                   (1911), 4.
               
                  26 The description of the Christamore district comes from Carlos C.
                        Rowlinson, "The Neighborhood House" (Address made to the Local Council of
                        Women of 
                     Indianapolis, Indianapolis
                  , January 2, 1901, in 
                            Indianapolis
                         Council of Women Records, Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ). Rowlinson's Neighborhood House was later turned from a settlement into a
                        church. See Woods and Kennedy, Handbook of Settlements, 313. Settlement house
                        districts often did not correspond to ward or other recognized geographical areas. However, they
                        were agreed on as "the field" by the settlement workers themselves. See also,
                        Leander M. Campbell Adams, An Investigation of Housing and Living Conditions in
                            Three Districts of 
                                Indianapolis
                             (Indiana University Studies, Vol. VIII, No. 8, 
                            Bloomington
                        , 1910), 133.
               
                  27 Rowlinson, "The Neighborhood House," 2.
               
                  28 Adams, Housing and Living Conditions, 134-35.
            
            
            
                    The community is not properly housed or fed, it is often cold and hungry, it is often sick and
                        often discouraged, it is without proper employment and proper recreation, it is often drunken
                        and often sinful. A host of the people are down, have lost their money and their friends, do not
                        know how to make money or how to save it, do not know how to cook or how to keep house, and many
                        of them do not care to know these things."29
               
                
            To Anna Stover and Edith Surbey also, it seemed as if the people of the Atlas neighborhood were
                    lacking in the skills needed for urban living and were utterly demoralized. The neighborhood needed
                    a combination of practical help and spiritual uplift, they believed, "not only the outward
                    friendliness and cheer of our work, but the inward change of heart and purpose."30 Like other settlement workers they had no trouble imagining a social work
                    that was both "scientific" sociology and inspired mission.
            Historians have often regarded the settlement movement as a standard-bearer of racial equality in a
                    racist era, but a careful study of settlements such as Christamore cannot sustain this view.
                    Christamore's founders had no intention of extending the benefits of the settlement house
                    to their black neighbors; in fact, they interpreted the rather casual intermixing of blacks and
                    whites in the neighborhood as an indication of serious degeneracy. The settlement's mission
                    was to lift the white population to a "higher plane" and to draw the color line
                    more sharply. But by excluding the neighborhood's growing black population from
                    Christamore, the founders charted a policy which would put the very existence of the settlement
                    house in doubt within ten years.31
            
            Between 1905 and 1911 Stover and Surbey developed Christamore into a lively neighborhood center for
                    the area's white residents. At the same time (though they did not advertise this aspect)
                    Christamore was a practical demonstration of cooperative living for young single women. The
                    settlement attracted a variety of female residents who came and went, some staying only for a
                    summer, others for a year, still others returning each year.32 Not all of the
                    residents had a burning interest in social problems and their solution. Some came because settlement
                    life was a daring adventure. For others, residence at Christamore was a matter of convenience; 
                  
                     29 Rowlinson, "The Neighborhood House," 5.
                  
                     30 Stover, "Reminiscent History," 13-14.
                  
                     31"All over the [Christamore] district it is a common thing
                            to see negroes and whites living side by side in a very neighborly manner," Adams
                            recorded in 1910. "It is the belief of the managers of Christamore that the color
                            line is not drawn closely enough in the district. Hence they, as part of their plan of
                            action, have decided to exclude negroes. The settlement is open only to white
                            people." Adams, Housing and Living Conditions, 134.
                  
                     32"Misses Pearl Green and Charlotte Carson, two very lovely
                            kindergarten teachers stayed with us during July and August [1905]. These young women helped
                            us in gardening and visiting and were always greatly admired by the neighbor-hood."
                            Stover, "Reminiscent History," 3.
               
                     cheap, safe, and convenient lodging for unmarried middle class
                    girls was very difficult to find in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .33 The settlement house, with its atmosphere of female
                    conviviality, heightened by the daring of living in the slums, presented an attractive but still
                    respectable alternative for young women that enabled them to escape the "family
                    claim." The settlement residents bore up well under the hard physical labor of housework
                    and gardening because of this sense of adventure.34
            
            Unlike the settlement houses established by a church or business, Christamore operated without an
                    institutional affiliation, al-though its founders initially sought such an affiliation with 
                        Butler
                     College. The decision to terminate Christamore's 
                        Butler
                     affiliation illuminates some of the pressures faced by settlement houses. In the spring
                    of 1905 Will Howe, professor of English literature, and 
                        Butler
                     President Garrison accosted Stover at a 
                        Butler
                     College chapel service the latter was attending. Howe and Garrison questioned Stover
                    about her projected settlement house and then offered to have 
                        Butler
                     adopt the settlement. In April, 1905, the 
                        Butler
                     College Settlement Association was founded to sponsor the venture with a board of
                    directors consisting of professors and alumni.35 The college settlement was to
                    "investigate and improve existing conditions, and to provide centers for a higher civic,
                    social and religious life." With the first money raised by the board, Stover and Surbey
                    printed leaflets for publicity and rented the cottage at 1918 Arsenal Avenue that became the
                    settlement's first home. Thus began a brief formal connection between the Christamore
                    settlement house and 
                        Butler
                    .36
            
            Yet by November, 1905, Stover and Surbey had decided that the connection with 
                        Butler
                     had become an embarrassment. Some potential supporters were lost because they assumed
                    that 
                        Butler
                    
                    
                  
                     33 The 
                                Indianapolis
                             Free Kindergarten Association found that the lack of a dormitory for girls
                            attending the Training School was a serious problem. Superintendent's
                                Report of the 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Free Kindergarten Association for June 17, 1905 to June 26, 1906, p.
                            30, Box 1527, Free Kindergarten Records. Discussing the summer course to be offered in
                            social work at the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Social Service Department in 1917, Director Edna Henry wrote to President Bryan
                            that she feared many young women would be unable to take the course because of the
                            "insurmountable snag" posed by the lack of suitable lodgings. Edna Henry
                            to Indiana University President William L. Bryan, May 12, 1917, p. 2, 44 DCI, Bryan
                            Correspondence, 1916–1918 (Indiana University-Purdue University at 
                                Indianapolis
                             Archives, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ). See also Vicinus, Independent Women, 36-37.
                  
                     34 Stover and Surbey escaped from the pressures of settlement work by
                            taking long trips each summer, returning refreshed in September. During their absences the
                            settlement limped along with a makeshift staff. Stover, "Reminiscent
                            History," 9-10.
                  
                     35
                            
                        
                                    Butler
                                 College Settlement Association, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana (1905). This pamphlet in the Indiana State Library lists the
                            officers, trustees, and Board of Di-rectors of this ephemeral organization. See also Christamore, The College Settlement of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (1906–1907).
                  
                     36
                            
                        
                                    Butler
                                 College Settlement Association.
               
                     College supported the settlement house financially, others
                    because the "
                        Butler
                     College" label suggested sectarianism. In reality, Christamore was struggling
                    financially. Stover and Surbey sup-ported it from their private means and by begging donations from
                    friends and from sympathetic businessmen.37 In 1906, therefore, they dissolved
                    the 
                        Butler
                     College Settlement Board and in its place organized a board of twelve citizens headed
                    by Reverend Harry Blunt of the First Congregational Church. In contrast with the previous board that
                    had been dominated by the Disciples of Christ, this new board was broadly representative of
                    different churches.38
            
            Although the formal connection between 
                        Butler
                     and Christamore was dissolved, the settlement nevertheless continued as a college
                    settlement. Its director was required to be a college graduate, and 
                        Butler
                     students in economics and sociology continued to be residents. An editorial in the 
                  
                            Butler
                         Collegian, January 13, 1906, en-titled "Our Settlement
                    House" appealed to students to work at Christamore: "The experience of working for
                    a settlement of this sort is something that no one can afford to miss. You need it and it needs you,
                    your interests, your contributions. Why not get up a party of five or six of your friends and see
                    for yourself?"39
            
            If the tone of this editorial suggests that some settlement residents were dilettantes to whom
                    "slumming" was more a diversion than a commitment, the role of the settlement
                    house in the developing social work field was nevertheless important. Before the establishment of
                    university schools of social work, the training of social workers was improvised at settlement
                    houses like Christamore.40
                    
                        Butler
                     students were required to have practical experience or "field work"
                    before graduation, and the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                     was their "social laboratory." As the College
                    Catalogue explained in 1905, "While it does not present the complexity of phenomena to
                    be found in some larger cities, it is large enough to furnish almost every factor of the most
                    complicated social life."41
            
            A visit or an extended stay at Christamore enabled students in the "Charities"
                    course at 
                        Butler
                     to make a "personal investigation of actual conditions found in the
                        city."42 For students of Indiana University at 
                        Bloomington
                    , some fifty miles south of 
                  
                     37 Stover, "Reminiscent History," 5.
                  
                     38 Coleman, "The College Settlement in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," 433. Christamore continued to be called, "Christamore, the
                            College Settlement Association" until its name was changed to Christamore House in
                            1928. James O. Clark, "The First Fifty Years at Christamore House,
                            1905–1955" (M.A. thesis, Division of Social Service, Indiana University,
                            1955), 23.
                  
                     39 "Our Settlement House," 
                        
                                    Butler
                                 Collegian, January 13, 1906
                  
                     40 For the development of social work education, see Lubove, The Professional Altruist, 137-56. See also Training School
                                for Social Workers, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana (1912).
                  
                     41
                            
                        
                                    Butler
                                 College Catalogue (1904–1905), 54-57.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., 55; Charity Organization Society of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Yearbook, 1905.
               
                    
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    , Christamore was an "urban laboratory" where those preparing for a
                    career in social service generally did their field work. By 1910 Christamore's function in
                    the training of social workers had become so prominent that the agency was sometimes referred to,
                    not as a settlement, but as a "Training School for Social Workers."43
            
            Settlement residence sometimes led to investigation and re-form. In 1910 Indiana University students
                    resident at Christamore compiled data for Leander M. Campbell Adams's survey of housing and
                    living conditions under the direction of Professor Ulysses G. Weatherley.44 Like
                    the Hull House residents who compiled Hull House Maps and Papers, these
                    Christamore residents tried to get a complete statistical description of their neighborhood. Such
                    surveys were more than an academic exercise. This one, for instance, provided data for the campaign
                    for a state housing law, which passed two years later in 1913.45
            
            This relationship between the universities and the settlement house, so quickly established, was soon
                    changed, however. In 1911 Indiana University set up a permanent Department of Social Service in 
                        Indianapolis
                     that siphoned off many students who other-wise would have entered settlement work.
                    Students now did their practical work and their medical social research not at the settlement but
                    with the charity patients at the hospital and the city dispensary.46 Christamore
                    continued to have 
                        Butler
                     students as residents and helpers, but the settlement house was no longer crucial to
                    social work training in Indiana. As in the nation as a whole, the education of professional social
                    workers was no longer dependent on the rather idiosyncratic settlement 
                  
                     43 Lois Ann Piepho, "The History of the Social Service
                            Department of the Indiana University Medical Center, 1911–1932" (M.A.
                            thesis, Indiana University School of Social Service, June, 1950). See also Indiana University Bulletin (1917–1918), 133.
                  
                     44
                            Christamore, The College Settlement of Indianapolis (1911), 7; Adams, Housing and Living Conditions. For a summary of the connection between
                            investigation and reform, see Robert H. Bremner, From the Depths: The Discovery
                                of Poverty in the United States (orig. 1956; New York, 1972), 140–63.
                  
                     45 Albion Fellows Bacon, "The Awakening of a
                            State—Indiana," The Survey, XXV (December 17, 1910),
                            467–73; Robert G. Barrows, " 'The Homes of Indiana':
                            Albion Fellows Bacon and Housing Reform Legislation, 1907–1917," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXXI (December, 1985), 309–350;
                            Roy A. Lubove, The Progressives and the Slums: Tenement House Reform in New
                                York City, 1890–1917 (Pittsburgh, 1962); Phillips, Indiana
                                in Transition, 487.
                  
                     46 Under the direction of Edna Henry, an Indiana University graduate,
                            the department became one of the outstanding centers in the nation for the new speciality of
                            Medical Social Work. The development of the department can be traced in the correspondence
                            of Edna Henry with Ulysses G. Weatherly and with WIlliam L. Bryan, Indiana University
                            president, Edna Henry Collection (Indiana University–Purdue University at
                            Indianapolis Archives). See also Edna Henry, The Theory and Practice of Medical
                                Social Work (Ann Arbor, Mich., 1924).
               
                     houses like Christamore were left shorn of their function of
                    training social workers. But Christamore continued to have an impact on its neighborhood and those
                    who lived there. What was the nature of this impact? What did the settlement mean to the
                    neighborhood?
            With the motto, "Improvement is the aim, friendship the principle," Anna Stover and
                    Edith Surbey embarked on the first task for any new settlement house, winning acceptance in their
                    neighborho d. Neighborhood visiting and settlement club work were important to settlements because
                    of their content, of course, but they also served to establish everyday contact between settlement
                    workers and working-class neighbors that the settlements believed vital to their mission of breaking
                    down class barriers. Optimistic about the possibility of teaching their values to their poorer
                    neighbors, they also hoped for a return of face-to-face communication that would restore and
                    regenerate the whole society.48
            
            Christamore's founders soon seized on the idea of a kindergarten for neighborhood children
                    as a practical, needed program that would be welcomed by working mothers. Throughout the nation
                    settlement workers began kindergartens because of their reforming potential for young children. The
                    fact that Stover and Surbey had been trained as teachers and that several of the first settlement
                    residents were kindergarten teachers also made this a natural choice.49 The
                    Christamore kindergarten was not an isolated effort but part of an established, publicly supported
                    kindergarten system in the city that dated back to the establishment of the Indianapolis Free
                    Kindergarten Association in 1882.50 In August, 1905, Anna Stover moved the settlement house to
                    larger quarters at 1908–1910 Columbia Avenue in order to accommodate the kindergarten,
                    which opened in September, 1905. The kindergarten's initial enrollment of 45 had risen to
                    135 by the following year.51 In Martha Stewart Carey, kindergarten director at the settlement from
                    1907 until her death in 1925, Christamore had a vigorous proponent of this branch of progressive
                    education. Her influence on 
                  
                     47 Coleman, "The College Settlement in
                            Indianapolis," 433.
                  
                     48 Settlement workers and other reformers were attempting to
                            reconstruct communities where "real communication" could take place. Thus,
                            as settlement leader Albert J. Kennedy declared "Neighbourliness, as an emotional
                            experience, is both means and end." Albert J. Kennedy, Settlements and Their
                            Outlook: An Account of the First International Conference of Settlements, Toynbee Hall,
                            London, July, 1922 (London, 1922), 38; Quandt, From the Small Town to the Great Community,
                            passim.
                  
                     49 Davis, Spearheads for Reform, 43-45.
                  
                     50 "History of the Indianapolis Free Kindergarten
                            Society," typescript, 1930–1931, Box 166, Free Kindergarten Records;
                            Phillips, Indiana in Transition, 399; Stover, "Reminiscent History," 3.
                  
                     51 Superintendent's Report, Indianapolis Free Kindergarten
                            Association, June 27, 1905 to June 26,1906, Free Kindergarten Records.
               
                     Christamore was so strong that an account of the settlement
                    house in the 1920s credited her with founding it.52
            
            An important part of Christamore's program consisted of club activities with young people.
                    Club work should be "broad, that is, religious, industrial, intellectual and
                    social," Anna Stover wrote.53 She established clubs for all age groups
                    of boys and girls: for the girls, the Jewel, Fidelity, Princess, and Loyalty clubs; for the boys,
                    the White Shield, 
                        Columbia
                    , and Young American clubs. Christamore's clubs were designed to produce
                    "real patriotism, a respect for and knowledge of self-government, and cultivation of the
                    spirit of usefulness," one sponsor noted.54
            
            Boys' programs presented problems for most settlement houses: boys could not be ignored,
                    yet, they were hard to control, and ideas of proper education for them dictated the use of a
                    gymnasium, which few settlement houses could afford. Boys' programs generally be-came
                    established only after a settlement had sufficient funds to build a gym and to employ male workers.
                    Wood carving classes were tried with the boys at Christamore, but even these proved too much for the
                    settlement worker in charge.55
            
            Housekeeping, rather than government or patriotism formed the theme of settlement work with girls.
                    The "formula" for their clubs was "alternately cooking and housekeeping
                    with devotional beginnings and social and game endings."56 Historians
                    influenced by the Hull House "model" have assumed that all settlements were
                    interested in preserving the cultural distinctiveness of their clients. The Christamore settlement
                    workers, however, assumed that household tasks would be done one way. They judged the homes of their
                    neighbors to be sadly lacking in hygiene, order, and regularity. It was up to the settlement workers
                    to teach these migrants from rural Indiana, 
                        Kentucky
                    , and 
                        Tennessee
                     how to cook, sew, and keep house. They had little or no appreciation of the cultural
                    heritage of these rural folk from the Upland South. Although Anna Stover confided to her
                    "Reminiscent History," "we began to create the sentiment in our
                    neighborhood that for all our learning, we were ‘just common and sociable
                    like,’" she remained aware of the 
                  
                     52
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, March 12, 1925; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, March 6, 1925; "History of the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Free Kindergarten Society." R. C. Reilly, President of Republic
                            Creosoting Co., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , to Christamore Board of Directors, October 13, 1932, Box 166, Free
                            Kindergarten Records.
                  
                     53 Stover, "Reminiscent History," 3.
                  
                     54 Coleman, "The College Settlement in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," 433.
                  
                     55 Stover, "Reminiscent History," 6. For an original
                            study of the psychological bases of the progressive approach to adolescent boys, see
                            Dominick Cavallo, Muscles and Morals: Organized Playgrounds and Urban Reform,
                                1880–1920 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1981). See also David I. McLeod, Building Character in the
                                American Boy: The Boy Scouts, YMCA, and their Forerunners, 1870–1920
                                    (
                        Madison, Wisc
                     ., 1983).
                  
                     56 Stover, "Reminiscent History," 2. The word
                            "formula" is Stover's.
               
                     gulf that separated college-trained ladies and Appalachian
                        migrants.57
            
            Some of the more famous settlement houses, such as Hull House, established model kitchens and
                    laundries as experiments in cooperative living in an attempt to reorganize the unpaid domestic work
                    that was women's responsibility in a more efficient way. But most settlements, like
                    Christamore, remained committed to the ideal of a single family home with a male breadwinner and a
                    "Progressive mother" despite the fact that the settlement house was itself a
                    living demonstration of a community of single females living cooperatively.58
            
            In order to teach the standards of home life they wanted their neighbors to adopt, Christamore
                    residents chose a demonstration method. Desired standards were displayed at elaborate entertainments
                    to which the whole neighborhood was invited. One such "entertainment" in 1907 was
                    entitled, "The Making of a Home" and featured many displays of domestic skills.
                    The 
                        Columbia
                     Boys' Club demonstrated the cooking of vegetable soup, the Fidelities
                    sweeping, and the Loyalties their prowess at making beds. "But the washing and ironing by
                    the Jewel Club [girls aged five to nine], with their tubs and suds and their earnest endeavor, was
                    counted the cleverest of all," Anna Stover fondly recalled.59
            
            Such entertainments enabled the Christamore settlement workers to attract neighborhood women to
                    settlement clubs and classes. After a discouraging beginning when the first recruits to the Friendly
                    Neighbors Club seemed to Anna Stover to be "back-ward and silent," the group began
                    to be a success. By 1907 meetings of the club were attracting an average attendance of twenty-five.
                    By putting neighborhood women in charge of clothing sales to others in need, the settlement workers
                    tried to involve them in some responsibility at the settlement.60
            
            
               
                  57 Raymond A. Mohl and Neil Betten, "Paternalism and Pluralism:
                        Immigrants and Social Welfare in Gary, Indiana, 1906–1940," American Studies, XV (Spring, 1974), 5-30; Stover, "Reminiscent
                        History," 2. David E. Whisnant's work on the Hindman Settlement School in 
                            Kentucky
                         is an excellent case study of the interaction between settlement workers and their
                        Appalachian clients. Whisnant suggests that the social workers, though well-meaning, failed to
                        understand the culture of those they sought to help. See David E. Whisnant, All
                            That is Native & Fine: The Politics of Culture in an American Region (
                            Chapel Hill
                        , N.C., 1983).
               
                  58 Dolores Hayden, The Grand Domestic Revolution: A History
                            of Feminist Desings for American Homes, Neighborhoods, and Cities(
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1982), especially 162-79. "In one sense, settlement houses were
                        the great practical success of cooperative housekeeping in the period between 1890 and 1920, the
                        middle-class reformers' proof that collective cooking, cleaning, laundering, and
                        central heating … could really work," Hayden writes. "Yet
                        settlement house residents rarely praised and publicized the forms of cooperative housekeeping
                        they developed to sup-port their own careers." The few community kitchens established
                        by settlements, like the Hull House Public Kitchen set up in 1894, were rarely successful. Ibid., 165-67, 174.
               
                  59 Stover, "Reminiscent History," 7-8.
               
                  60
                        Ibid., 5-6; The College Settlement in 
                                Indianapolis
                            : Christamore (1907).
            
            
            
               CHRISTAMORE NURSERY, C. 1912
               Courtesy Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
               CHRISTAMORE LIBRARY, C. 1912
               Courtesy Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
            
               GROUP OF CHRISTAMORE SETTLEMENT CHILDREN, C. 1907
               Courtesy Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
               CHRISTAMORE MOTHERS' CLUB, C.
                        1912
               Courtesy Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
            As it became better established, Christamore increasingly be-came a center for the activity of other
                    welfare organizations and for the promotion of reform. Charity Organization Society workers, for
                    instance, sometimes lived at Christamore, and collectors for the Dime Savings Association were
                    familiar and frequent visitors.61 Christamore aided reform in general by acting
                    as a clearing house for social service work in its district. The settlement also became a catalyst
                    for reform by playing a role in the progressive campaign to ensure a pure milk supply for 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            An increased demand for pure milk in the growing Hoosier capital led to progressive efforts to
                    regulate dairies and retail out-lets. The problem was not the quantity of milk available but its
                    quality. Poor distribution practices meant that milk was often spoiled or dirty when it reached city
                    consumers. The result was a high summer seasonal death rate, especially for children and infants.62 The Pure Milk Program was set up under the auspices of the
                    Children's Aid Association in cooperation with the city board of health, the Kindergarten
                    Association, and the Commercial Club. It was funded by public subscriptions and receipts from the
                    sale of milk.63 Organized in a manner similar to programs already launched in
                    twenty other cities, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Pure Milk Program provided for the distribution of milk made safe by pasteurization at
                    a modern dairy. The provision that five nurses and six physicians should be in attendance at the
                    distribution stations to examine the babies who were brought there was an important advance for
                    preventive health care. Indeed, the scheme was a great success. By one estimate, in a single year
                    the program had lowered by one-half the seasonal mortality for children under five.64
            
            The selection of Christamore as one of five "pure milk stations" strengthened the
                    settlement's position as a community center. There were now opportunities to make contacts
                    with neighborhood people since babies were weighed and information was given to mothers during their
                    visits to the station. In 1911 the work was expanded when a trained nurse was employed at the
                    settlement to make home visits. Alice Menser, the nurse, was soon making an estimated one hundred
                    calls a week. She did not confine her attention to sickness, according to a settlement report, but
                    also made the most of her 
                  
                     61 "Our Settlement House," 
                        
                                    Butler
                                 Collegian, January 13, 1906.
                  
                     62 Helen Worthington Rogers, "A Modest Experiment in
                            Foster-Motherhood: The Work of the Pure Milk Commission of the Children's Aid
                            Association of 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," The Survey, XXII (May 1, 1909), 176-83;
                            "Fighting to Save Indiana Babies," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, Sunday, November 17, 1907, sec. Woman's. The production of
                            milk for sale in Indiana rose from 6,723,840 gallons in 1879 to 36,562,105 in 1899, and to
                            45,167,166 gallons in 1919. Phillips, Indiana in Transition, 163.
                  
                     63 Rogers, "A Modest Experiment in
                            Foster-Motherhood," 176.
                  
                     64 Stover, "Reminiscent History," 12; Christamore, The College Settlement Association (1911), 5.
               
                     "many opportunities to teach the lessons of thrift,
                    cleanliness, and right living by her presence at the time of sickness."65
            
            As the settlement's activities multiplied, the settlement workers began to feel hampered by
                    the lack of space. Consequently, plans were made to build a new settlement house on two lots at 1806
                    East 
                        Columbia
                     Avenue Stover had purchased in 1907 for $1,000. She had raised the money by
                    asking each board member for $100, and collecting "almost $300,
                    mostly in pennies," from the neighborhood.66 A building campaign began
                    in earnest early in 1909; funds were collected from well-wishers, and an architect donated his
                    services. Construction was completed in August, 1909, and in October, 1909, Christamore's
                    residents moved into the new building. On the ground floor were the office of the headworker, large
                    rooms for clubs and classes, a sizable hall for the kindergarten, and a gymnasium large enough for
                    basketball games. On the second floor were the apartments of the head worker and a woman assist-ant
                    director and more rooms for meetings. Baths for men and women adjoined the gymnasium. "In
                    appearance and attractiveness the settlement serves as a model for the neighborhood," a
                    1918 report declared. "The neighborhood cannot help [but] be better because of the presence
                    of the house."67
            
            After the move into Christamore's new facilities, disagreement over the goals, purposes, and
                    programs of the settlement arose between its founders and its board. With the resolution of these
                    disagreements, the settlement house embarked on a new period of maturity, but it did so without the
                    two women who had founded it. As Christamore's activitives expanded, the problem of
                    defining the ultimate goals of the settlement house became more acute. For Anna Stover and Edith
                    Surbey settlement work had been the expression of an inner faith. They had scrubbed floors,
                    importuned businessmen for contributions, ventured down unsavory alleys, all for the sake of an
                    ideal which promised the material and spiritual redemption of their neighborhood—and
                    perhaps of themselves as well. Christamore's emphasis had been on evangelical
                    Protestantism; its social service work had always been embedded in a missionary purpose. Now the
                    settlement board was urging Stover and Surbey to make the settlement more of a recreation center and
                    to phase 
                  
                     65 Stover, "Reminiscent History," 7; The College Settlement in 
                                    Indianapolis
                                : Christamore (1907); "Our Settlement House," 
                        
                                    Butler
                                 Collegian, January 13, 1906; Christamore, The College
                                Settlement Association of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (1911), 5.
                  
                     66 Stover, "Reminiscent History," 7.
                  
                     67 National Bureau of Municipal Research, "Survey of Social
                            Agencies in 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," 1918, mimeograph, pp. 33, 36, 230 (Indiana University-Purdue
                            University at 
                                Indianapolis
                             Archives). For a discussion of settlement house design in relation to social
                            theory, see Guy Szuberla, "Three 
                                Chicago
                             Settlement Houses: Their Architectural Form and Social Meaning," Journal of the 
                                    Illinois State
                                 Historical Society, XIV (May, 1977), 114-29.
               
                     out religious programs. This was a change in policy which the
                    founders could not accept. Their resignation in 1911 was almost certainly caused by this
                    disagreement over philosophy rather than, as they claimed, by ill-health.68
            
            After their resignation Christamore completed the transition from religious settlement house to
                    social center. At the same time, the settlement took an important step toward professionalization
                    when it entered the National Federation of Settlements as a charter member in 1911.69 As a member house, Christamore was required to de-emphasize religious observance and to
                    adopt the nondenominational stance that was a requirement for affiliation with the national social
                    work body.70
            
            Had Stover and Surbey stayed on at Christamore they would have found much to alarm them in the
                    direction the settlement house took after 1911. By 1918 no religious services were held at the
                    house, signaling the different orientation of Christamore's new leaders.71 The two founders, however, persisted in their goal of religious social service. After Anna
                    Stover left 
                        Indianapolis
                    , she went on to a career that included founding another "Christamore"
                    settlement house in San Juan, 
                        Puerto Rico
                    , a "House of Light" in 
                        Los Angeles
                    , a Bible school for Mexican children, and a mission in 
                        Mexico City
                    . Her last eleven years were spent in mission work with Russian children in 
                        Los Angeles
                    , where she died in 1944. Edith Surbey, her close friend and associate for nearly forty
                    years, died in 
                        Los Angeles
                     in 1972 at the age of one hundred.72
            
            
               
                  68 Stover and Surbey, "Remembrances"; The
                            College Settlement Association, Christamore (1912), 3; Clark repeats the story that
                        both women resigned because of ill-health. A passage in "Remembrances"
                        explains the founders' differences with the settlement board about the question of
                        "worldly entertainments" and thus hints at the real reason for the retirement
                        of the two women. Stover's memoir speaks of pressures to make the settlement
                        "more of an educational and recreation center, introducing worldly
                        amusements." Clark, "First Fifty Years at Christamore House," 14. The
                        Disciples of Christ split at this time over the issue of instrumental music in church services.
                        The minority anti-organ faction of the church adopted the name, Churches of Christ. Phillips,
                            Indiana in Transition, 448-89. See also U.S. Bureau of the Census, Religious Bodies (2 vols., 
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1906), I, 308-310; idem, Religious Bodies (2 vols., 
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1916), I, 258-59.
               
                  69 Clark, "First Fifty Years at Christamore House," 14.
               
                  70 Robert A. Woods and Albert J. Kennedy, in the
                        "official" statement of what settlements stood for, the Handbook
                            of Settlements, stated, "The typical settlement is one which provides neutral
                        territory traversing all the lines of racial and religious cleavage." Woods and
                        Kennedy, Handbook of Settlements, v. "If the word
                        ‘mission’ means a finished message passed on to others, then the
                        settlement is not a mission," wrote Mary Simkhovitch. "The settlement, made up
                        as America is made up, of various types of people with varying points of view, cannot fasten
                        upon any one aspect of truth, political or religious." Mary 
                            Kingsbury
                         Simkhovitch, "The Settlement and Religion" in Lorene M. Pacey,
                        ed., Readings in the Development of Settlement Work (
                            New York
                        , 1950), 139.
               
                  71 National Bureau of Municipal Research, "Survey of Social
                        Agencies in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," 35.
               
                  72
                        
                     
                                Butler
                             Alumnus, XXXIV (October, 1944), 13; "Edith Surbey,"
                        Deceased Alumni Files (
                            Butler
                         College Alumni Office, 
                            Butler
                         University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ).
            
            
            The settlement reports for 1911 and 1912 show that Christamore was flourishing. With eleven resident
                    workers and seventy-five nonresident and volunteer workers, the house was a hive of activity where
                    about six hundred people attended settlement activities each week. The settlement not only provided
                    educational opportunities to many who would not otherwise have had them, it also supplemented the
                    physical resources of its neighbors; for ex-ample, the Christamore baths were in constant use, for
                    only 5 per-cent of the district's houses had indoor plumbing.73
            
            If Christamore's residents had earlier felt as if they were en-gaged in a lone crusade, they
                    now had the satisfaction of being part of the national settlement movement. Membership in the
                    National Federation of Settlements brought recognition from other settlements. In 1922 Director
                    Olive Edwards and Martha Stewart Carey traveled to the First International Conference on Settlements
                    in 
                        London
                    , the only representatives from Indiana settlements to do so.74
            
            Christamore's new leaders understood and accepted the long-term goals of the settlement
                    movement for the neighborhood and the nation. Christamore aimed "to make our's an
                    ideal industrial neighborhood of wholesome, well ordered homes, to build character and self-respect,
                    to produce such men and women as this city and nation may depend on."75
                    Evoking a twenty-year tradition of settlement activity, from the English pioneers Arnold Toynbee and
                    Canon Barnett to Jane Addams, the Christamore leadership reaffirmed their goals for the nation using
                    the words of Jane Ad-dams, "The best result of civilization … must be
                    incorporated into our common life and have free mobility through all elements of society if we would
                    have our democracy endure."76
            
            Yet this vision of progress was for whites only. Christamore had been founded to serve the white
                    residents of the surrounding neighborhood, but by 1910 blacks made up half the population of the
                    Christamore district. The black ghetto of the Indiana Avenue district was beginning to spread
                    eastward as its population was swelled by blacks from the South seeking opportunity. Between 1910
                    and 1920 the black population of the city as a whole doubled from 15,931 to 34,678.77 As the racial composition of its neighbor- 
                  
                     73
                            Christamore, The College Settlement Association of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (1912), 7.
                  
                     74 Clark, "First Fifty Years at Christamore House,"
                            13-14; Kennedy, Settlements and Their Outlook, 186.
                  
                     75
                            Christamore, The College Settlement Association of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (1911), 2.
                  
                     76
                            Christamore, The College Settlement Association of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (1912), 7.
                  
                     77 Adams, Housing and Living Conditions, 134; U.S.
                            Bureau of the Census, Thirteenth Census, 1910, Vol. II: Population (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1913), 574; idem, Fourteenth Census, 1920, Vol. III:
                                Population (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1922), 308; idem, Fifteenth Census, 1930, Vol. II: Population (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1933), 206; idem, Negroes in the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 1920–1932 (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1935), 230-31, 269-71; Emma Lou Thornbrough, Since
                                Emancipation: A History of Indiana Negroes, 1863–1963 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , n.d.), 70-76.
               
                     hood changed, Christamore felt the impact of declining
                    attendance; white attendance at the settlement house fell from four thousand a month in 1913 to only
                    two thousand in 1919.78
            
            Thus, when Edwards came to take the position of head resident in August, 1915, she almost immediately
                    faced a crisis which threatened to close down the settlement house permanently. For months,
                    Christamore's board and new director deliberated. Should they set up a separate branch
                    settlement for blacks as some other settlements were doing; admit them to the main building on
                    certain days; or continue to exclude them and face declining attendance?79 The
                    decision of Christamore's sponsors to move the settlement house rather than integrate it
                    may seem surprising in view of the well-known commitment of settlement leaders such as Jane Addams
                    to racial justice. This move was not untypical, how-ever: as the new institutions of social work
                    emerged in the post-World War I period, they were generally segregated. Only later, when whites had
                    fled inner-city areas where they were located, would settlements open their doors to blacks.80
            
            By 1920 Edwards and the settlement board had decided that Haughville, an industrial district west of
                    the White River with many immigrants but few blacks, should be
                    Christamore's new home.81 In November, 1922, the board adopted plans
                    for the new 
                  
                     78 Clark, "First Fifty Years at Christamore House,"
                            17, 19.
                  
                     79 In 1922 Woods and Kennedy recommended as "the soundest
                            practice," the creation of a separate branch "where special forms of work
                            fitted to the needs of colored people are carried on." Robert A. Woods and Albert
                            J. Kennedy, The Settlement Horizon: A National Estimate (
                                New York
                            , 1922), 337. The racial practices of 
                                Chicago
                            's settlements are described in Thomas Philpott, Jr., The
                                Slum and the Ghetto: Neighborhood Deterioration and Middle-Class Reform, 
                                    Chicago
                                , 1880–1930 (
                                New York
                            , 1978), passim. In 1914 the Christamore Board of Directors
                            considered a possible merger with the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Boys Club or the Christian Women's Board of Missions.
                            Edwards's proposal to the board was that black women be allowed to use the
                            gymnasium one afternoon a week. Clark, "First Fifty Years at Christamore
                            House," 14-18.
                  
                     80 Ruth Hutchinson Crocker, "Sympathy and Science: The
                            Settlement Movement in Gary and 
                                Indianapolis
                            , to 1930" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Purdue
                            University, 1982). For a summary of the contributions of settlement leaders to black
                            advancement, see Davis, Spearheads for Reform, 99-102. Settlement workers
                            William English Walling, Florence Kelley, and Julia Lathrop were instrumental in setting up
                            the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People in 1909. Two pioneering
                            studies of blacks in northern cities were: Mary White Ovington, Half a Man: The
                                Status of the Negro in 
                                    New York
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1911); John Daniels, In Freedom's Birthplace: A Study of
                                the 
                                    Boston
                                 Negroes (
                                Boston
                            , 1914).
                  
                     81 Head Resident's Report, October, 1921, quoted in Clark,
                            "First Fifty Years at Christamore House," 20-21. A postscript concerns the
                            fate of the settlement house building, which had been praised as ideal by the 1918 survey
                            only to be abandoned in 1921. The Christamore College Settlement Association sold its
                            property on 
                                Columbia
                             Avenue to the board of park commissioners in 1921 with the intention that the
                            building should become a social agency for blacks. This plan was stalled for several years
                            by protests to the board from some white property owners, with the result that the
                            Christamore building was reserved for whites only. However, later it became the J. T. V.
                            Hill Community Center. Christamore House Report: Over a Period of Twenty-Five
                                Years, 1907–1932. (Copy available at Christamore House, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
               
                     settlement house building and launched a campaign to raise
                    $100,000 by subscription. Two wings of the new building were finished in 1924, and Dr.
                    John Elliott of the Hudson Guild Settlement, 
                        New York
                    , presided over the dedication in January, 1925.82 Meanwhile,
                    another campaign raised pledges of $45,000 for a Martha Stewart Carey wing, which was
                    completed in 1926. Jane Ad-dams was the guest speaker at the ceremony dedicating this new wing.83
            
            Christamore was endowed with a splendid new building, challenged by a new neighborhood, and
                    recognized by the patron saint of the settlement movement. However, new developments in the field of
                    social work in the 1920s—the tendency for voluntary social welfare agencies to join in
                    federations and to develop closer and more formal relationships with business—presented
                    settlements with such a changed climate in which to work as to alter the nature of the movement.84
            
            Some settlement leaders had long warned that such developments might threaten the spontaneity and
                    activism that had characterized the settlement movement.85 But
                    Christamore's Olive Edwards represented a new type of settlement worker, one who expected
                    settlements to take their place within the emerging bureaucratic structures of social work. A
                    college graduate who had trained in several settlement houses in the East, including an Episcopal
                    settlement in 
                        New York City
                    , she welcomed the opportunity to tie Christamore into the emerging federation of public
                    and private social service agencies. In a report to the Christamore Board of Directors she
                    emphasized "the great need of closer cooperation, the importance of the city being
                    districted and a thorough 
                  
                     82 "Dr. John Elliott Gives Christamore Dedication
                            Speech," clipping, [1924?], Charities File (
                                Indianapolis
                             Public Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     83 Clark, "First Fifty Years at Christamore House,"
                            22-23.
                  
                     84 For the professionalization of social work see Abraham Flexner,
                            "Is Social Work a Profession?" in National Conference of Charities and
                            Corrections, Proceedings of the Forty-Second Meeting (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1915), 576-90; Robert A. Woods, "Social Work: A New
                            Profession," Charities and the Commons, XV (January, 1906),
                            469-76; Lubove, The Professional Altruist, passim; David W. French,
                            "Professional Organization," Encyclopedia of Social
                            Work, XV (1965). The 
                                Indianapolis
                             branch of the American Association of Social Workers was founded in 1923; the
                            National Association of Social Workers in 1921. Bertha Leming, "
                                Indianapolis
                             Chapter, American Association of Social Workers,
                            1923–1946," pamphlet, June, 1946 (Indiana University-Purdue University
                            at 
                                Indianapolis
                            )
                  
                     85 "Questions Propounded at the 
                                St. Louis
                             Conference," 1910, Conference Re-ports, National Federation of
                            Settlements (United Neighborhood Houses of America, Inc., 
                                New York
                            ). For the role of national social work leaders in articulating the goals of
                            wartime and postwar reconstruction, see Alchon, The Invisible Hand of
                            Planning; Clarke A. Chambers, Paul U. Kellogg and the Survey; Voices for
                                Social Welfare and Social Justice (
                                Minneapolis
                            , 1971).
               
                     understanding and working together of all social and
                    philanthropic agencies."86
            
            Under Edwards's leadership Christamore completed the transition from private voluntary
                    agency to member agency of a city-wide federation supported by the Community Chest. In 1917 the
                    settlement still relied on private donors, raising 30 percent of its income from the Christamore Aid
                    Society and 27 percent from subscriptions. But after 1920, when it entered the Community Chest, its
                    source of support changed. By 1928, 94 percent of the settlement's funding came through the
                        Chest.87
            
            It is to Edwards's credit that in a climate of increased professionalism and bureaucracy she
                    nevertheless sought to define the settlement's role in a new and more democratic way. In a
                    frank statement she disowned the settlement tradition of cultural uplift which was often
                    indistinguishable from noblesse oblige. Edwards tried to redefine the mission of
                    the settlement house; Christamore would not be a "place where the rich come to patronize
                    those less well off," nor would its sponsors "offend the people of Haughville with
                    the suggestion that it is a charitable institution, or a school set there to educate
                        them."88 This new, more democratic emphasis led to the
                    encouragement of community organization in the Christamore neighborhood. The Civic League of
                    Haughville, which met at Christamore during the 1920s, was successful in putting pressure on
                    municipal authorities to improve street paving and lighting and to provide playgrounds in the
                        district.89 And on the eve of the Depression the Christamore board was
                    contemplating the creation of a council of neighborhood people that would have a direct role in the
                    running of the settlement. Unfortunately this proposal to enlarge the base of the
                    settlement's support was shelved as the agency turned its full attention to meeting the
                    relief emergency.90
            
            Despite Edwards's distaste for the notion, the settlement was still, when all was said and
                    done, an agency which existed to channel some limited funds from well-to-do groups to a
                    working-class 
                  
                     86 Report to the Christamore Board of Directors, April 1916, quoted in
                            Clark, "First Fifty Years at Christamore House," 16. The movement toward
                            federation of charities in 
                                Indianapolis
                             is traced in Ruth Hutchinson Crocker, "Making Charity Modern: Business
                            and the Reform of Charities in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1879–1930," Business and Economic
                            History, 2nd ser., XII (1983). See also John R. Seeley et al., Community
                                Chest: A Case Study in Philanthropy (
                                Toronto
                            , 1957), 87-88; Report of the Businessmen's Committee of
                                the 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Charity Organization Society for the Year, 1890–1891. Oscar
                            McCulloch, "The Opportunity of the Commercial Club," (Address to the Board
                            of Directors of the Commercial Club, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , July 8, 1890, in 
                                Indianapolis
                             Chamber of Commerce Records, Indiana Historical Society).
                  
                     87
                            The Leisure of a People: Report of a Recreation Survey of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                      (n.p., 1929), 386.
                  
                     88
                            Christamore, pamphlet, [1925?] (Christamore House).
                  
                     89
                            Ibid.
                  
                     90
                            The Leisure of a People, 387; Judith Ann Trolander, Settlement Houses and the Great Depression (
                                Detroit
                            , 1975).
               
                     and immigrant constituency in order to raise the standard of
                    living among those groups and thereby incorporate them into a community of consumption. As a
                    settlement report of 1925 neatly put it, the objective was "to foster an understanding of
                    American institutions and a desire for the good things in life in the hearts and minds of most of
                    the 15,000 people of Haughville." The result was to be a society undifferentiated by class
                    or ethnic (but not racial) divisions.91
            
            Haughville presented a challenge to the settlement different from any it had faced so
                    far—an ethnically mixed population of new immigrants, mostly East Europeans, and an older
                    population of Irish and Germans. With its move to Haughville, Christamore joined the Americanization
                    crusade in which settlements all over the country were engaged.92 The
                    settlement's sponsors were able to make a strong appeal for the support of business,
                    combining the argument for efficiency—unassimilated aliens represented a drag on the
                    city's progress towards a progressive future—with calls for patriotism. Using an
                    industrial metaphor which suited the businesslike image Christamore wished to project, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Star called Christamore: "a plant whose output is ardent, loyal little
                    Americans. Into one door is fed little children of foreign parentage out the other door they rush
                    with gladsome, dancing steps-little Americans."93
            
            
               
                  91
                        Christamore. Social historians such as John E. Bodnar and Olivier Zunz have
                        argued that in the early twentieth century ethnic and even working-class
                        "subcultures" organized around the family and the community and enjoyed some
                        independence from the hegemonic, dominant culture. Zunz believes that these separate,
                        self-reliant cultures began to yield in the 1920s to the mass society. With the important
                        exception of blacks, who experienced the opposite development of a solidifying ghetto, the
                        various subcultures were absorbed into the undifferentiated mass society. The
                        settlements' Americanization work aided this process of absorption. John E. Bodnar,
                        Roger Simon, and Michael P. Weber, Lives of Their Own: Blacks, Italians, and Poles
                            in Pittburgh, 1900–1960 (
                            Urbana
                        , Ill., 1982); Olivier Zunz, The Changing Face of Inequality:
                            Urbanization, Industrial Development, and Immigrants in 
                                Detroit
                            , 1880–1920 (
                            Chicago
                        , 1982).
               
                  92 "Irish Were First to Settle There; Then Came Others,"
                        newspaper clipping, December 2, 1961, Clipping File (
                            Indianapolis
                         Public Library). See also James J. Divita, Slaves to No One: A History
                            of the Holy Trinity Catholic Community in 
                                Indianapolis
                             on the Diamond Jubilee of the founding of Holy Trinity Parish (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1981), 9-10; John H. Holliday, "The Life of Our Foreign
                        Population," typescript, 12-13, John H. Holliday Collection (Indiana State Library);
                        Edward G. Hartmann, The Movement to Americanize the Immigrant (
                            New York
                        , 1948); Thomas J. Archdeacon, Becoming American: An Ethnic
                        History (
                            New York
                        , 1983), 167-68, 184-86. For case study of settlement dealings with immigrants, see
                        Mohl and Bet-ten, "Paternalism and Pluralism," 5-30.
               
                  93 "Christamore Settlement House is Big Achievement," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, December 11, 1924; Ray 
                            Spencer
                        , interview with author, West 
                            Lafayette
                        , Indiana, September 15, 1974; Mary Ann Armborst, "Immigrant Groups in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," (Honors thesis, Marian College, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1963); E. S. Stammel and C. D. Parks, "The Slavic Peoples in 
                            Indianapolis
                        " (M.S. thesis, School of Social Service, Indiana University, 1930).
            
            
            The settlement's image in the 1920s was both benevolent and respectable, a far cry from the
                    bohemian and collectivist flavor of the settlement movement of the 1890s. Christamore was
                    "an isle of happiness, surmounted by the Stars and Stripes," one writer
                        declared.94 Christamore's programs reflected a philosophy
                    fundamentally in agreement with the way society was organized. The settlement did not promote
                    fundamental reform, nor was it an agency seeking to redistribute the economic goods of society;
                    in-stead, the settlement's task was to equip people to compete more effectively within the
                    economy, to encourage them in certain standards of health, manners, and morals, to promote self-help
                    solutions, and to advocate an ethic of individual upward mobility.
            Christamore's success in the 1920s cannot be attributed to its effectiveness as an agency of
                    social reform. Its success came about because of a congruence between the goals of the settlement
                    and those of elite groups within the society. That businessmen were able to support an agency which
                    helped the poor to help themselves and provided essential services on a basis of voluntary giving is
                    shown by the support which it received from the Community Fund. This amounted to $13,251
                    in 1928 out of Christamore's total revenues of $14,043.95
            
            But the community's support of Christamore was not only financial. An important supplement
                    to the regular staff was the Christamore Aid Association, whose seventy members provided volunteer
                    assistance in many of the settlement's activities. The new profession of social work
                    retained a place, lowly but essential, for the untrained female volunteer.96
                    Support also came from the users of the settlement, for whether or not working-class people accepted
                    its values, they were indeed making use of Christamore, as attendance figures show. During 1924
                    average daily attendance was 134, and the total attendance during the year was 41,136. By 1928 total
                    annual attendance had risen to over 53,000: by 1931, to 70,769.97
            
            Was Christamore a success as it entered the thirties? In one way it is impossible to say. After all,
                    settlement leaders had de-fined the settlement in such a way that they were bound to measure
                    progress by the diminishing number of things that settlements 
                  
                     94"Christamore Settlement House is Big Achievement," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, December 11, 1924.
                  
                     95
                            The Leisure of a People, 386.
                  
                     96
                            Ibid. Since all the regular staff still lived in the house, Christamore
                            could still call itself a true settlement. Residency was only abandoned at Christamore in
                            the 1950s. For the role of volunteers in social work, see Lubove, The
                                Professional Altruist, 49-54.
                  
                     97
                            Christamore; The Leisure of a People, 385. The question of how far clients
                            adopted "middle-class values" (or indeed, whether they already shared
                            them) is of course a vexed one. For a recent discussion of the issue see T. J. Jackson
                            Lears, "The Concept of Cultural Hegemony: Problems and Possibilities," American Historical Review, XC (June, 1985), 567-93.
               
                     had to do. On the eve of the Great Depression Helen Hart,
                    head-worker of 
                        Pittsburgh
                    's Kingsley House, surveyed the settlement movement and noted that indeed there
                    was less to do as programs sponsored by private agencies began to be considered a public
                    responsibility. "One by one the fields which we occupied alone are being invaded by other
                    organizations—the boys' club, the scout troops, the city recreation center, the
                    health center, the public bath, the visiting nurses' association, the nursery school, the
                    library, the public evening school, the vocational guidance bureau."98
                    At the same time, the 1920s saw rising standards of living for the better-paid working-class family,
                    which meant that there was less need for the settlements' social housekeeping role.99
            
            By 1930 Christamore had made the transition from private dream to semipublic agency. Anna Stover and
                    Edith Surbey had been the pioneers. Missionaries on an "urban frontier" (in
                    settlement leader Graham Taylor's phrase), they had endured present discomforts because
                    they had their eyes on the coming Kingdom of Heaven. Daring, determined, idealistic young women,
                    they represented a generation whose vision produced the institutions of social welfare and put in
                    place the infrastructure of social work for the next generation. But the postwar federations of
                    voluntary and public agencies had little place for spontaneity or individualism. In an age
                    symbolized by the flapper, the progressive "social mother" looked quaintly
                        archaic.100 Extravagant hopes were out of fashion; the new age required
                    social work, not social action.
            Developments at Christamore reflected a national trend. While the postwar reorganization of charities
                    strengthened settlements financially by bringing joint fund raising as well as coordinated services,
                    it also reduced their independence. A study of the settlement movement during the Depression shows
                    the result of settlements taking the friendly hand of business: in many cases the grasp had
                    tightened until it strangled what remained of independence and activism in the movement.101
            
            
               
                  98 National Conference of Social Work (formerly National Conference of
                        Charities and Corrections), Proceedings of the Fifty-Eighth Meeting of the National
                            Conference of Social Work (
                            Minneapolis
                        , 1931), 289.
               
                  99 For example, a law in 1913 made instruction in domestic science
                        compulsory for girls in all Indiana high schools. See "Domestic Science in the Public
                        Schools of Indiana," Indiana Department of Public Instruction, Biennial
                            Report for 1915 and 1916 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1917), 634-46.
               
                  100 Historian Mary P. Ryan writes, "The highly specialized and
                        bureaucratized new century had less use for creative humanitarians than for self-absorbed
                        service workers, whom it rewarded with a paycheck." Mary P. Ryan, Womanhood in America: From Colonial Times to the Present (
                            New York
                        , 1975), 257.
               
                  101 Trolander, Settlement Houses and the Great
                        Depression, 50-63. A note on the later history of Christamore seems in order here. The
                        settlement remained in its western 
                            Indianapolis
                         location on West 
                            Michigan
                         Street as the community center for the Haughville district. As late as the 1950s it
                        retained its ties to the immigrants who had been its clients in the 1920s, although they were
                        now moving out to the
            
            
            One sign of the changed climate in which settlements like Christamore operated was the muted optimism
                    of the Intercollegiate Community Service Association, successor to the College Settlements
                    Association. In a report to this body in 1922 social worker Elizabeth Kemper Adams complained that
                    female undergraduates no longer realized the unique role or history of the college settlements. The
                    expectation of rapid, dramatic change was no longer there. Idealistic women—and, heaven
                    knows, there were few of them to be found—busied themselves with "community
                    service," not community transformation.102 Second generation settlement
                    workers like Olive Edwards worked for improvement, not for the millennium. Settlement work had
                    become a profession and lifetime career, and settlements were now just one among a number of other
                    agencies signaling by their acceptance of the financial support of business that their agenda of
                    reform was no longer incompatible with business goals or a threat to the existing economic order.
            
               suburbs. Meanwhile, the black population of western 
                            Indianapolis
                         continued to grow. By 1965 Executive Director Ray 
                            Spencer
                         estimated that the clientele was 96 per-cent black. Residence of social workers in
                        the settlement building was phased out by 1957. The settlement continued to offer health care,
                        recreational activities for children, and support for campaigns for neighborhood improvement.
                        Interview with 
                            Spencer
                        .
               
                  102 Report submitted by Elizabeth Kemper Adams to the standing committee
                        of the Intercollegiate Community Service Association, February, 1922, Box 79, 
                            Van
                         Kleek Papers, Sophia Smith Collection (Smith College Women's History
                        Archive).
            
         
         
         
            "To Keep the Indians of the Wabache in His Majesty's Interest": The
                    Indian Diplomacy of Edward Abbott, British Lieutenant Governor of 
                        Vincennes
                    , 1776–1778
            
                    Paul L. Stevens
                    ∗
                
            The British employment of Indians during the Revolutionary War has consistently been called to notice
                    and condemned by that conflict's contemporaries and its later chroniclers. Historians of
                    the American Revolution on the frontier have closely examined the attitudes and actions of the
                    British officials at 
                        London
                    , Quebec, and sundry western outposts who were responsible for initiating and directing
                    bloody Indian raids against colonial backcountry settlements from 1777 through 1782. They have also
                    taken pains to identify the few British officials who purportedly opposed or deprecated the
                    crown's use of "savage" Indians in its war effort. Among those so honored
                    for their "humanity" is Edward Abbott, lieutenant governor of 
                        Vincennes
                    . Abbott is repeatedly held up as an ex-ample of a compassionate and farsighted official
                    who futilely warned his superiors that the crown's adoption of the Indians'
                    barbarous methods of warfare would ultimately prove detrimental to the royal cause.
            Historians, whether they pass cursorily over Abbott's conduct or examine his administration
                    of 
                        Vincennes
                     in some detail, always highlight his condemnation of Britain's wartime Indian
                    policy. In most cases Abbott's transactions appear briefly either as an antecedent to
                    George Rogers Clark's adventures in the 
                  Illinois-Wabash
                country or as a
                    sidelight to the guerrilla war waged against the 
                        Ohio
                     valley frontier by Henry Hamilton, British lieutenant governor 
                  
                     ∗ Paul L. Stevens received his doctorate in American
                            history from the State University of 
                                New York
                             at 
                                Buffalo
                             in 1984. He wishes to thank Dr. Robert L. Gan-yard of that institution for
                            guiding the research upon which this article is based. He is also obliged to William L.
                            Potter, who pointed out the value of the William Edgar Papers, and to Bernard R. Kazwick,
                            who shared his knowledge and source material about the eighteenth-century Royal Regiment of
                            Artillery. Part of the re-search was accomplished during an academic fellowship in
                            1979–1980 at the D'Arcy McNickle Center for the History of the American
                            Indian, The Newberry Library, 
                                Chicago
                            .
               
                     of 
                        Detroit
                    . Relying upon a few British documents, Consul W. Butterfield wrote in his history of
                    Clark's conquests (1904) that Abbott's limited presents of warlike stores helped
                    the warriors carry on "their murderous visitations" of frontier settlements. He
                    also stressed, however, that Abbott did not directly encourage "the savages" to
                    make war and that he "deplored the marauds." About three decades later
                    Abbott's reputation gained a substantial boost from three prominent western historians.
                    That not all British officials favored ruthless Indian forays was pointed out with stated pleasure
                    by James A. James in his biography of Clark (1928), by Louise P. Kellogg in an article on
                    Revolutionary-era Indian diplomacy (1929) and a major study of the British regime in the Midwest
                    (1935), and by Nelson V. Russell in an article about 
                        Hamilton
                    's Indian policy (1930). Each of them cited Abbott as having been innocent of
                    any "charges of inhumanity" because of his pleas to Quebec's governor,
                    General Sir Guy Carleton, to discontinue crown sponsorship of Indian raids. In two studies of 
                        Hamilton
                    's policy published in 1951, John D. Barnhart again called attention to
                    Abbott's protest against the use of the Indians while relating his financial handicaps and
                    his onetime offer to raise warriors to fight the rebels. John Bakeless, in another standard Clark
                    biography (1957), stressed that Abbott lacked sufficient government-supplied merchandise to treaty
                    with the tribes effectively. In two important works on the Revolutionary frontier (1965 and 1967),
                    Jack M. So-sin once again singled out Abbott as a British official who "resisted taking the
                    offensive in the West and insisted on limiting the use of Indians." Most recently, in a
                    book (1976) and an article (1977) presenting overviews of the war in the west, George M. Waller
                    reinforced the portrait of Abbott as a steadfast opponent of the use of Indians as combatants,
                    contending, moreover, that the government sent him to 
                        Vincennes
                     specifically "to enlist the warriors of the 
                        Wabash
                    ," a task for which "he had little stomach." In the most
                    complete narrative of Abbott's tenure at 
                        Vincennes
                    , Barnhart and Dorothy L. Riker explained in their history of colonial Indiana (1971)
                    that Abbott believed he could win over the 
                        Wabash
                     tribes and perhaps make them militarily useful to the royal cause, but that he was
                    stymied by financial restrictions. Yet, even they closed their discussion of Abbott by accentuating
                    his criticism of British Indian policy.1
            
            
               
                  1 Consul W. Butterfield, History of George Rogers
                            Clark's Conquest of the 
                                Illinois
                             and the 
                                Wabash
                             Towns 1778 and 1779 (
                     Columbus, Ohio
                  , 1904),
                        49-50, 106; James A. James, The Life of George Rogers Clark (
                            Chicago
                        , 1928), 53; Louise P. Kellogg, "Indian Diplomacy during the Revolution in
                        the West" (
                                Illinois State
                             Historical Society Transactions, No. 36; 
                                Springfield
                            , 1929), 52; idem, The British Regime in 
                                Wisconsin
                             and the Northwest (
                     Madison, Wisc
                  ., 1935),
                        130-32, 141-42; Nelson V. Russell, "The Indian Policy of Henry Hamilton: A
                        Re-valuation," Canadian Historical Review, XI (March, 1930), 25, 35;
                        John D. Barnhart, "A New Evaluation of Henry Hamilton and George Rogers Clark," 
                                Mississippi
                             Valley Historical Review,
               
            
            
            Significantly, this laudatory characterization of Abbott derives from a single document, a brief
                    letter that he sent to Carleton from 
                        Detroit
                     on June 8, 1778, four months after he had quit 
                        Vincennes
                    . This letter found its way into the papers of Carleton's successor as governor
                    of Quebec Province, General Frederick Haldimand. In 1857 Haldimand's heirs donated his 232
                    manuscript volumes to the British Museum in 
                        London
                    ,2 and during the 1880s the Public Archives of 
                        Canada
                     had handwritten transcripts of the entire Haldimand collection made for its repository
                    in 
                        Ottawa
                    .3 Once acquisition by the Canadian Archives brought
                    Haldimand's papers to public notice in North America, regional historical societies soon
                    published selected documents from the 
                        Ottawa
                     transcripts. In this manner, Abbott's letter first appeared in 1886 in the 
                        Michigan
                     Pioneer and Historical Society Collections.4 In 1912 James A. James
                    included a copy taken from the British Museum original in the first volume of the George Rogers
                    Clark papers he edited for the Collections of the 
                            Illinois State
                         Historical Library.5
                Because of its consequent
                    accessibility in printed form, American historians have relied on this document, one of the few of
                    Abbott's letters to be published, as their solitary guide to the attitudes of the
                    lieutenant governor to-ward the Indians and Indian warfare. Even Barnhart and Riker drew their
                    material from only an additional eight Abbott letters 
                  XXXVII (March, 1951), 646; idem, Henry Hamilton and George Rogers Clark in
                                the American Revolution with the Unpublished Journal of Lieut. Gov. Henry Hamilton (
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Ind., 1951), 14-15, 33; John Bakeless, Background to Glory: The
                                Life of George Rogers Clark (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1957), 61, 111; Jack M. Sosin, "The Use of Indians in the War of the
                            American Revolution: A Re-Assessment of Responsibility," Canadian
                                Historical Review, XLVI (June, 1965), 120-21; idem, The Revolutionary Frontier,
                                1763–1783 (
                                    New York
                                , 1967), 104-105; George M. Waller, The American Revolution in the West (
                                    Chicago
                                , 1976), 30, 33-34; idem, "Target 
                                Detroit
                            : Overview of the American Revolution West of the Appalachians," in The French, The Indians and George Rogers Clark in the 
                                    Illinois
                                 Country (Proceedings of an Indiana American Revolution Bicentennial
                            Symposium; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1977), 50; John D. Barnhart and Dorothy L. Riker, Indiana to
                                1816: The Colonial Period (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 1971), 175-80, 184-90.
                  
                     2 Now widely available on microfilm, the manuscript Haldimand Papers
                            are located in vols. 21,661-21,892, Additional Manuscripts (British Museum Library, 
                                London
                            ). Hereafter, the Haldimand Papers will be cited as HP/source for the particular
                            documents cited; references to the original manuscripts will be BM Add. MSS. The letter in
                            question is Edward Abbott to General Sir Guy Carleton, 
                                Detroit
                            , June 8, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,782, folios (fols.) 41-42.
                  
                     3 The Public Archives of 
                                Canada
                             initially classified its transcripts of the Haldimand Papers as Series B, vols.
                            1-232. Recently, these have been incorporated into Manuscript Group (MG) 21, B2, which also
                            includes the Public Archives' microfilm copies of the original Haldimand Papers
                            from the British Museum. A comprehensive calendar of the Series B transcripts (which can
                            also serve as a guide to the microfilmed originals) can be found in Douglas Brymner,
                            "Calendar of the Haldimand Papers," Annual Reports of the
                                Public Archives for 1884–1889 (
                                Ottawa
                            , 1885–1890).
                  
                     4
                            
                                Michigan
                             Pioneer and Historical Society, Historical Collections (40
                            vols., Lan-sing, Mich., 1877–1929), IX, 488-89 (cited hereafter as MPHSC).
                  
                     5 James A. James, ed., George Rogers Clark Papers, Vol.
                                I: 1771–1781 (Collections of the 
                                    Illinois State
                                 Historical Library, Vol. VIII; 
                                Springfield
                            , 1912), 46-47.
               
                     transcribed from the records of the British Colonial Office.
                    Yet numerous other documents exist that allow a closer and more accurate view of Abbott's
                    transactions with the Indians. They reveal the exact state of British-Indian relations along the 
                        Wabash
                     during the one and one-half years before Clark's Virginians appeared at 
                        Vincennes
                    , and they explain precisely what triggered Abbott's oft-quoted outburst
                    against his government's Indian policy.
            Scrutiny of Abbott's Indian diplomacy will reveal that he undertook his assignment with a
                    complete willingness to use native warriors against the rebels. Yet, once he arrived at 
                        Vincennes
                    , he neither offered the war hatchet to his district's Indians nor en-gaged
                    them to perform any other material services for the crown. This passivity arose not from scruples on
                    his part but rather from the pronounced Anglophobia of the 
                        Wabash
                     tribes, from the British ministry's failure to send him orders to rouse the
                    Indians to war, and from crippling financial restrictions placed on him by Governor Carleton. His
                    later condemnation of Indian raids came in response to an agent's report about a specific
                    incident south of the 
                        Ohio
                     River. To an already frustrated Abbott this occurrence revealed at last the ultimate
                    futility of the contradictory dual manner in which he and Henry Hamilton had hoped to prosecute the
                    Revolutionary War in the Midwest, a region with whose complexities Abbott was quite familiar.
            In contrast to 
                        Hamilton
                    , Abbott began his lieutenant governorship possessing lengthy experience with the
                    Midwest, its Indians, and Indian warfare. When he received his appointment, he was an active-duty
                    artilleryman who had served for more than ten years at 
                        Detroit
                    , where he had established ties of family and friendship. Although Louise Kellogg long
                    ago partially noted Abbott's service at 
                        Detroit
                    , other writers have continued to repeat the misinformation that he "had no
                    Indian or border experience."6 In reality, Abbott was a career officer
                    of the blue-coated Royal Regiment of Artillery (R.R.A.). He had entered the Royal Military Academy
                    at Woolwich as a teenaged gentleman cadet in January, 1757, and graduated as a lieutenant-fireworker
                    two years later. By late 1762 he was serving as a junior officer with the detachment from the 1st
                    Battalion, R.R.A., that manned the guns at fortress 
                        Detroit
                    . In that capacity he distinguished himself during Pontiac's siege of 1763 on
                    several sorties in armed bateaux in company with Lieutenant Dederick Brehm (later Governor
                    Haldimand's trusted aide-de-camp) and Lieutenant Jehu Hay (later 
                        Hamilton
                    's Indian agent and subsequently 
                        Detroit
                    's post-Revolution lieutenant (governor) 
                  
                     6 Hiram W. Beckwith, ed., Letters from Canadian Archives
                                (Collections of the 
                                    Illinois State
                                 Historical Library, Vol. I; 
                                Springfield
                            , 1903), 310-12; Barnhart and Riker, Indiana to 1816, 188 n.
                            19.
               
                     Remaining at 
                        Detroit
                     after the Indians' eventual defeat, Abbott gained promotion to second
                    lieutanant in 1764 and to first lieutenant in 1769. He also married a local Canadien
                    (Franco-American) belle, Angelica Desrivieres, by whom he had one son in 1771 and at least one more
                    soon afterward. In addition to commanding the small artillery detachment, he acted for some time as 
                        Detroit
                    's military engineer and also attended the Indian councils held by the
                    post's successive army commandants. Like Hay, who also married and remained at 
                        Detroit
                    , Abbott established close contacts among the settlement's British merchants
                    and Canadien Indian traders and seems to have entertained thoughts about carving out a permanent
                    life on the American frontier. In 1773, how-ever, the 1st Battalion was relieved at
                    Britain's scattered American cantonments by detachments from the newly formed 4th
                    Battalion, and that July Abbott and his family sailed for 
                        England
                    .7
            
            After his arrival Abbott learned that Governor Carleton was in 
                        London
                     lobbying for passage of the Quebec Act, a measure for establishing an effective civil
                    government of the largely French-speaking population of Laurentian 
                        Canada
                     and the Canadien and Native American inhabitants of the military-ruled Indian territory
                    in the interior. Once passed, this legislation (to take effect May 1, 1775) extended the borders of
                    Quebec Province to encompass former French-held territory south of the Great Lakes and north of the
                        Ohio River and provided for five subordinate lieutenant governorships at
                    the outlying settlements of 
                        Detroit
                    , Michilimackinac, 
                  Kaskaskia,
                            Vincennes
               , and Gaspe. Abbott determined to
                    seek one of these appointments, probably the position at 
                        Detroit
                    . He met with William Legge, Earl of Dartmouth, secretary of state for 
                  
                     7 This paragraph is based on scattered bits of information about
                            Abbott's career found in: "Lieut. Jehu Hay's Diary: Under Siege
                            in 
                                Detroit
                            , 1763," in Howard H. Peckham, ed., Narratives of Colonial
                                America, 1704–1765 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1971), 220-21; Receipt of Theophile Lami for pay as Indian smith, 
                                Detroit
                            , May 1, 1773 (witnessed by Lieutenant Edward Abbott), Major Henry Bassett to
                            General Thomas Gage, Conference with the Indians who brought in the murderers of Pond, 
                                Detroit
                            , May 9-10, 1773, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,670, fols. 40, 42; Abbott to William Legge,
                            Earl of Dartmouth, [probably 
                                London
                            , early 1774], in Great Britain, Historical Manuscripts Commission, The Manuscripts of the Earl of Dartmouth (3 vols, 
                                London
                            , 1887–1896), II, 119 (cited hereafter as Dartmouth
                                Manuscripts); Lieutenant Charles Sackville Colleton to Lieutenant Colonel Samuel
                            Cleaveland, 
                                Detroit
                            , October 3, 1773, June 3-4, 1774, J. Reid to Cleaveland, Woolwich, May 2, 1774,
                            fols. 96, 114, 110-111, vol. 1537, ser. 55, War Office Papers (Public Record Office, 
                                London
                            ); cited here-after as WO ser./vol.; Abbott to William Edgar, St. Vincenne,
                            August 6, 1777, pp. 651-52, vol. II, Al, MG 19, William Edgar Papers (Public Archives of
                                    
                        Canada, Ottawa
                     ); cited hereafter as Edgar Papers; Howard H. Peckham,
                                Pontiac and the Indian Uprising (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1947), 204, 232; "The King's Shipyard," Burton Historical Collection Leaflet, II (January, 1924), 23-25;
                            Charles Dennissen, Genealogy of the French Families of the Detroit
                                    River Region, 1701–1911, edited by Harold F. Powell (2
                            vols., 
                                Detroit
                            , 1976), I, 1; List of Officers of the Royal Regiment of Artillery,
                                as They Stood in 1763, with a Continuation to the Present Time…
                            (Dept-ford Bridge, [
                                London
                            ?], 1815), 6.
               
                     American affairs, early in 1774 and furnished him with a
                    written report concerning 
                        Detroit
                    's government, inhabitants, and commerce. He assured the American secretary
                    that a "proper person" could easily govern the region's numerous Indians.
                    He became so sure of his influence with Dartmouth, who controlled the new appointments, that he
                    neglected to pay court to Carleton, a precaution not overlooked by Captain Henry Hamilton of the
                    15th Regiment, who had served as the governor's major-of-brigade in 
                        Canada
                     from 1767 to 1768. When the commissions were issued on April 7, 1775, the lieutenant
                    governorship of 
                        Detroit
                     went to 
                        Hamilton
                    , and Abbott had to settle for 
                        Vincennes
                    . This commission gave him the governance of 
                        Vincennes
                    's civil and judicial affairs, the superintendence of its Indian trade, and an
                    annual salary of £200.8.
            In anticipation of his appointment and return to 
                        Canada
                    , Lieu-tenant Abbott had arranged as early as April, 1774, for his transfer to the Royal
                    Artillery's 4th Battalion, which was still stationed in America. By the time he received
                    his commission, however, the American Revolution had broken out, and he and his family were not able
                    to depart Britain until late 1775. They initially landed at 
                        Boston
                     the following January and then joined the British exodus from that besieged city to 
                        Halifax
                     in March. Abbott had to wait there while a large British-
                        German
                     expeditionary force drove rebel troops from the St. Lawrence valley during May and June
                    before he could return to 
                        Canada
                    . The fighting's residual disruption of public affairs and transportaion
                    westward detained him through-out the summer at 
                        Montreal
                    . There he fell in with the many soldiers and citizens who were growing ever more vocal
                    in their criticism of Carleton's handling of Quebec's Indian affairs.9
            
            
               
                  8 For Abbott's office seeking, see Abbott to Dartmouth, [probably 
                            London
                        , early 1774], Abbott to Dartmouth, 
                            Montreal
                        , September 16, 1776, in Dartmouth Manuscripts, II, 119, 426;
                        Instructions to Governor Carleton, Court at St. James, January 3, 1775, in Adam Shortt and
                        Arthur G. Doughty, eds., Documents Relating to the Constitutional History of 
                                Canada
                            
                   (2 vols., 
                            Ottawa
                        , 1907), I, 419-37 (cited hereafter as DRCHC); John Pownall to Abbott, Whitehall,
                        April 8, 1775, Kenneth G. Davies, ed., Documents of the American Revolution,
                            1770–1783 (21 vols., 
                     Dublin,
                                Ireland
                  , 1972–1981), VII, 298, #1083;
                        Isaac Todd to William Edgar, 
                            Montreal
                        , June 25, 1775, Abbott to Edgar, St. Vincenne, August 6, 1777, pp. 478, 651-52,
                        Edgar Papers; Abbott to [Dartmouth], 
                            Halifax
                        , April 27, 1776, fol. 34, vol. 35, ser. 42, Colonial Office Papers (Public Record
                        Office, 
                            London
                        ); cited hereafter as CO ser./vol.; Establishment of the civil officers of the
                        Province of Quebec, June 20, 1776, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,697, fols. 141-142. For Carleton, the
                        Quebec Act, and the lieutenant governors, see the text and the many cited references in Paul L.
                        Stevens, "His Majesty's ‘Savage’ Allies: British Policy
                        and the Northern Indians during the Revolutionary War-The Carleton Years,
                        1774–1778" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, State University of 
                            New York
                         at 
                            Buffalo
                        , 1984), 256-59, 362-66, 1952 n. 39, 1987-90 nn. 1-4.
               
                  9 Reid to Cleaveland, Woolwich, May 2, 1774, Cleaveland to Captain Edward
                        Williams, 
                            Boston
                        , November 28, 1774, Cleaveland to Colonel Thomas Ord, 
                            Boston
                        , January 25, 1776, Cleaveland to Viscount George Townshend, 
                            Boston
                        , January 25, 1776, Abbott to Cleaveland, Green's Farm, May 16, 1776, WO
                        55/1537, fols. 110-111, 33, 60, 60, 142; Abbott to [Dartmouth], 
                            Halifax
                        , April 27, 1776, CO 42/35, fol. 34; List of Officers of the Royal
                            Regiment of Artillery, 6.
               
            
            
            Cautious and enigmatic, Carleton evidently hoped to overcome the American rebels with reconciliation
                    rather than retaliation, and he deliberately refrained from inflicting more military damage upon the
                    Americans than he considered necessary. In particular, he abhorred the thought of sending
                    Indians—whom he regarded as barbarous savages—against rebel settlers or even
                    rebel soliders in arms. Consequently, he had neglected to employ his Indian allies in the manner
                    most likely to have disrupted the rebel invasion in 1775. Likewise, in 1776 he refused to employ
                    against the battered rebel army on Lake Champlain the thousand or so Canadian and far western
                    warriors who assembled at 
                        Montreal
                     during June and July. His scruples angered many of his subordinates, who could not
                    understand his apparent leniency toward the rebels and who believed that the crown's Indian
                    allies could have prevented the rebel invasion in 1775 and might yet complete the destruction of
                    Congress's northern army in 1776. Abbott, who already harbored resentment against Carleton
                    over the matter of his appointment, readily agreed with those who argued that the governor should
                    have sent Indian raiders against the Americans. In fact, he wrote to Dartmouth in September to give
                    his opinion that Carleton could have saved his province two prolonged campaigns if he had employed
                    Indian parties when the rebels had first probed 
                        Canada
                    's border in 1775. Shortly after this, Abbott at last set out for the interior
                    and 
                        Vincennes
                    .10
            
            Before Abbott departed 
                        Montreal
                     Carleton gave him written instructions to govern his behavior at 
                        Vincennes
                    . Although these are no longer extant, Abbott later noted that they contained nothing
                    "except the form of Office on all occasions"; that is, they out-lined a lieutenant
                    governor's responsibilities over his post's civil administration, fiscal accounts,
                    and fur trade as contained in Carleton's own instructions from the home government. Because
                    Carleton had not received any accurate intelligence about events in the Midwest for a year or more,
                    he could give Abbott no specific instructions regarding military activities, defensive posture, or
                    Indian affairs. He doubtless told Abbott in general terms to foster Indian friendship for the crown,
                    but he emphatically—though only verbally—forbade him "to incur any
                    Expence for the Indians of Post 
                        Vincennes
                    ." He also declined to provide any regular troops to garrison that 
                        Wabash
                     village. In these actions the governor adhered 
                  
                     10 Abbott to [Dartmouth], 
                                Montreal
                            , September 16, 1776, in Dartmouth Manuscripts, II, 426;
                            Abbott to Edgar, St. Vincenne, August 6, 1777, pp. 651-52, Edgar Papers. Carleton's
                            management of the Indians during 1775 and 1776 and the many critics thereof in 
                                Canada
                             and 
                                England
                             are examined in considerable detail in Stevens, "His
                            Majesty's ‘Savage’ Allies," 361-406, 417-54,
                            494-518, 567-76, 614-52, 692-712, 788-840.
               
                     to a consistent but unexplained policy he followed from 1775
                        onward.11
            
            Even though Carleton had labored to get the 
                  Illinois-Wabash
                country included within
                    Quebec's expanded borders, he refused to expend the smallest resource to defend it or
                    retain its inhabitants' allegiance after the Revolutionary War commenced. In response to
                    the need to consolidate his forces when the rebels invaded 
                        Canada
                     and to orders received from General Thomas Gage regarding a harebrained western scheme
                    advocated by the royal governor of 
                        Virginia
                    , Carleton had ordered the withdrawal of the small British garrison from Fort Gage at
                            
                  Kaskaskia, Illinois
               , in late 1775. After Captain Hugh Lord boated his seventy men
                    to 
                        Detroit
                     in May, 1776, no British soldiers remained anywhere in the 
                  Illinois-Wabash
               
                    country. The army officer appointed as 
                        Kaskaskia
                    's lieutenant governor never attempted to get to his post, and Carleton placed
                    Philippe Francois Rastel, Sieur de Rocheblave, the local resident whom the departing Captain Lord
                    had appointed as acting commandant, on an allowance not to exceed £200 annually.
                    Subsequently, Carle-ton repeatedly attempted to eliminate all other government expenses for that
                    region. Nevertheless, the ambitious Abbott, anxious to rule 
                        Vincennes
                     as a personal, semiautonomous enclave, had no intention of obeying the
                    governor's financial restrictions. He thought that his friendship with Dartmouth gave him
                    enough influence to govern 
                        Vincennes
                     as he, not Carlteton, thought best. He seemed not to worry that Dartmouth had been
                    replaced as American secretary in November, 1775, by Lord George Germain (formerly Sackville).12
            
            Abbott, his wife, and his sons reached 
                        Detroit
                     during October or November and spent the winter there amidst their relatives and
                    friends. Abbott found that Hamilton had already been at his post for a full year. Both of these men
                    betrayed a certain jealousy, each regarding the other as a rival for the role of dominant British
                    authority in the Midwest and favorite with officials at Quebec and 
                  
                     11 Abbott to [Dartmouth], 
                                Montreal
                            , September 16, 1776, in Dartmouth Manuscripts, II, 426; Todd
                            to Edgar, 
                                Montreal
                            , September 12, 1776, Abbott to Edgar, St. Vincenne, August 6, 1777, pp. 541-42,
                            651-52, Edgar Papers; Abbott to Carleton, 
                                Detroit
                            , April 15, 1777, CO 42/37, fols. 35-36; Abbott to Carleton, St. 
                                Vincennes
                            , August 3, 1777, CO 42/38, fol. 88; Carleton to 
                                Hamilton
                            , Quebec, May 16, 1777, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,781, fol. 5 (also MPHSC, XII,
                            307-308); Thomas Dunn to Major Robert Mathews, Quebec, October 10, 1783, HP/BM Add. MSS.
                            21,859, fol. 107; Instructions to Governor Carlton, St. James, January 3, 1775, DRCHC, I,
                            419-37; Barnhart and Riker, Indiana to 1816, 178.
                  
                     12 Abbott to Edgar, St. Vincenne, August 6, 1777, pp. 651-52, Edgar
                            Papers; Philippe de Rocheblave to Lord George Germain, Fort Gage, January 22, February 28,
                            1778 in Edward G. Mason, ed., "Rocheblave Papers" (
                                    Chicago
                                 Historical Society Collections, Vol. IV; 
                                Chicago
                            , 1890), 395-97, 407-408. The relationship between 
                                Virginia
                            's Governor Dunmore, Gage, Carleton, and the withdrawal of Captain
                            Lord's garrison from 
                                Kaskaskia
                             is detailed and documented in Stevens, "His Majesty's
                            ‘Savage’ Allies," 459-65, 490-94, 670-76.
               
                    
                    
                        London
                    . Abbott worried that Hamilton might interfere with his governing the 
                        Wabash
                     district as he thought fit. Nevertheless, he must have spent many days talking over
                    military and Indian affairs with 
                        Hamilton
                     and with Jehu Hay, his old friend who was now 
                        Hamilton
                    's Indian agent and principal adviser. They expected that only one more
                    campaign would be required to subdue the rebels, and Hamilton believed that the tribes of the 
                        Detroit
                     region and the 
                        Ohio
                     country would readily join in any offensive action his superiors might authorize in
                    1777. 
                        Hamilton
                     had tried to restrain the warriors from raiding during 1776 because Carleton's
                    few letters to him had indicated a disinclination for the Indians' assistance. He knew,
                    however, that belligerent Mingo and Shawnee tribesmen were independently resuming their conflict
                    with 
                        Virginia
                     frontiersmen that had begun with Lord Dunmore's War in 1774 and never really
                    ended. In major councils at 
                        Detroit
                     and Niagara during August to October, 1776, 
                        Hamilton
                     and Niagara agent John Butler had succeeded in forging a loose, pro-British defensive
                    coalition amongst the Lakes Tribes (that is, the Wyandots, Ottawas, Potawatomis, and Chippewas who
                    resided in the vicinity of 
                        Detroit
                    ), several of the 
                        Ohio
                     tribes, and the pro-British factions of the Six Nations of 
                        New York
                    . To ensure cooperation among all the king's Indian friends, 
                        Hamilton
                     wished to extend this coalition to the far western tribes dependent upon Mackinac, to
                    the remaining 
                        Ohio
                     tribes (particularly the pro-American Delawares), and especially to the populous and
                    usually anti-British tribes of the Maumee and Wabash
                    valleys. Winning the latter over to King George's allegiance and to 
                        Hamilton
                    's coalition would become the first objective of Abbott's Indian
                        diplomacy.13
            
            That winter was a comparatively quiet time at 
                        Detroit
                    , and Abbott took the opportunity to renew old friendships, particularly with men he
                    thought might prove helpful in his new office. Among these he included several of 
                        Detroit
                    's leading merchants, such as Jacques (dit Duperon) Baby, James Sterling,
                    William Edgar, and James Cochran. He quietly promised provision contracts to Baby, a judgeship to
                    Sterling, and profitable patronage to Edgar if he accompanied him to the 
                        Wabash
                    . He also dispatched messages to 
                        Vincennes
                     announcing his impending arrival and requesting a re-port on local conditions there. In
                    response he was now and then visited by couriers and travelers from the 
                        Wabash
                    , including a Piankashaw chief (evidently Le Grand Coete, or Great Queue, the
                    tribe's principal civil chief), to whom he gave a pair of shoe buckles 
                  
                     13 Abbott to [Dartmouth], 
                                Montreal
                            , September 16, 1776, in Dartmouth Manuscripts, II, 426; Todd
                            & McGill to Edgar, 
                                Montreal
                            , February 6, 1777, Abbott to Edgar, St. Vincenne, August 6, 1777, pp. 576-79,
                            651-52, Edgar Papers. The complete story of the intertribal coalition and other relevant
                            matters are recounted in Stevens, "His Majesty's
                            ‘Savage’ Allies," 760-81, 877-81.
               
                     as a Christmas present. In total disregard to
                    Carleton's prohibition, he began to purchase merchandise on government credit for
                    distribution to his visitors. The information about the 
                        Vincennes
                     district that he gained during his stay in 
                        Detroit
                    , however, probably proved most helpful to him because the tribes of the 
                        Wabash
                     valley and the 
                        Illinois
                     country were continuing to exhibit their usual contempt for Britain's claims
                    of sovereignty.14
            
            Abbott's ability to govern his district effectively seemed problematical because of the long
                    absence of British authority from the rich and populous valley of the Wabash
                    River and the adjacent headwaters of the Maumee. The region that was about to become his
                    responsibility contained three permanent Canadien settlements: 
                        Vincennes
                    , Ouiatanon, and Miamis Town. Although 
                        Vincennes
                     was a substantial settlement, these villages were primarily bases of operation for
                    their resident Canadien traders, who followed the Indians on their periodic hunts and went from one
                    post to the next to buy furs. These Canadiens were friends and relatives of six strong and
                    refractory Indian nations-the Miami, Mascouten, Kickapoo, Wea, Piankashaw, and White River
                    
                        Delaware
                    -which could probably muster some eighteen hundred to two thousand warriors. The first
                    five of these tribes were often called the 
                        Wabash
                     confederacy because of the interests they shared through their common occupancy of that
                    river. The British and Indians alike regarded the Miamis, who inhabited the headwaters of the 
                        Wabash
                    , as head of this confederacy, which in reality was only a loose alliance of tribes
                    founded on past kinship and current propinquity. It lacked a single decision-making body and even a
                    central council place. Neither the Canadiens nor the Indians of the 
                        Wabash
                     region had ever regretted the absence of British officialdom, and they still did their
                    utmost to discourage Britons from entering their domain.15
            
            
               
                  14 Account of Lieutenant Governor Abbott with Andrews & Meldrum,
                        November 25, 1776-April 26, 1777, J. M. Legras to [Abbott], Duposte Vincenne, December 15, 1776,
                        Account of Lieutenant Governor Abbott with James Cochran, 
                            Detroit
                        , January 7-April 15, 1777, Todd & McGill to Edgar, 
                            Montreal
                        , February 6, 1777, Receipts of Cutun and of Claude Campau to Edgar, 
                            Detroit
                        , April 14, 1777, Abbott to Edgar, St. Vincenne, August 6, 1777, pp. 566, 567,
                        569-72, 576-79, 586, 589, 651-52, Edgar Papers; Alexander Macomb to John Porteous, 
                            Detroit
                        , November 1, 1776, p. 27, Vol. I, Box 1-Reel 1, John Porteous Papers (
                            Buffalo
                         and 
                            Erie County
                         Historical Society, 
                     Buffalo,
                                New York
                  ); Account of Lieutenant
                        Governor Abbott with James Sterling, 
                            Detroit
                        , December 26, 1776-April 14, 1777, pp. 20-21, Dl, MG 19, Fort 
                            Vincennes
                         Papers (Public Archives of 
                     Canada,
                                Ottawa
                  ); cited hereafter as Fort 
                            Vincennes
                         Papers; Ensign John Caldwell to Sir James 
                            Caldwell
                         and Lady Elizabeth 
                     Caldwell,
                                Detroit
                  , March 31, 1777, B3/13/111,
                        Caldwell Family Papers, Bagshawe Muniments (The John Rylands University Library of
                                
                     Manchester, England
                  ); Abbott to Carleton, 
                            Detroit
                        , April 15, 1777, CO 42/37, fols. 35-36.
               
                  15 For a comprehensive, fully documented account of the populations,
                        settlements, and politics of the 
                            Wabash
                         valley Indians c. 1776, see Stevens, "His Majesty's
                        ‘Savage’ Allies," 101-105, 142-49, 1887-92 nn. 35-39, 1913-16 nn.
                        82-92.
            
            
            
               THE WEST OF EDWARD ABBOTT, 1776–1778
            
            
            In 1769 
                        Vincennes
                     had been a substantial community containing fifty or sixty Canadien
                    families—250 people, including 50 men able to bear arms. During the following years it
                    grew steadily until it numbered some eighty or ninety permanent families in 1776. 
                        Vincennes
                     also attracted passing "Strollers and Vagabonds from 
                  Canada, Detroit, Illinois
               , and other Places," who
                    usually swelled its population by several hundred more. Considered "one of the most
                    beautiful places in the world" by those who visited it, it was a thriving trade and
                    agricultural center. About 1767 a passing British agent had tried to repair its old crumbling French
                    fort, but no British officer had ever been sent to assume command. Local officials handled all civil
                    and military matters as well as relations with the neighboring Indians. Jean Baptiste Racinne dit
                    Ste. Marie, a 
                        Vincennes
                     resident, was the only representative of British authority there. The British officer
                    commanding at Fort Chartres on the 
                        Mississippi
                     had appointed him captain in militia and "commandant" in late 1768 or
                    early 1769. His duties included greeting and entertaining the many family groups and passing war
                    parties from all the tribes of the 
                  Wabash, Illinois
               , and 
                        Ohio
                     countries who frequented 
                        Vincennes
                     to trade or to talk. The townspeople enjoyed good relations with them all, especially
                    with the nearby Piankashaws and White River Delawares.16
            
            Like their Canadien friends the tribes of the 
                        Wabash
                     confederacy and the neighboring Potawatomis, who occupied the entire southern rim of
                    Lake 
                        Michigan
                    , had never completely acceded to British dominion. They were warlike peoples, who did
                    not hesitate to waylay, kidnap, or kill any British traveler, trader, or soldier whom they happened
                    upon. One royal official noted that they had "been kept almost altogether in the dark with
                    respect to the power of the British nation." Throughout the 1770s the 
                        Wabash
                     tribes figure prominently in almost every rumored Indian plan to strike the British.
                    The hostility of these tribes continually threatened to interrupt navigation on the 
                        Ohio
                     River, and all the nations of the region were involved in a long-standing war against
                    the southern tribes, particularly the Chickasaws and Cherokees. Every year numerous war parties of
                    ten to thirty warriors made their way south-ward along the 
                        Wabash
                    . When they reached the 
                        Ohio
                     River, they made a practice of plundering British and Anglo-American boats and traders
                    before proceeding against their Indian enemies.
            Such depredations persisted through 1776, and British officials remained convinced that the Canadiens encouraged them in order to eliminate possible competitors for the
                    Indians' furs. To make 
                  
                     16 For a comprehensive, fully documented account of 
                                Vincennes
                             and the other settlements of the 
                                Wabash
                             and Maumee valley Canadiens c. 1776, see Stevens,
                            "His Majesty's ‘Savage’ Allies," 142-49,
                            1913-16 nn. 82-92.
               
                     matters worse, every British attempt to pacify the 
                        Wabash
                     region had had the opposite result. During 1772–1773 an order for the
                    complete evacuation of 
                        Vincennes
                     had provoked vociferous protests from the Canadien inhabitants and threats from the
                    Indians to kill Captain Lord's messengers. The order's revocation did little to
                    re-store goodwill toward the British. In 1771 the northern Indian superintendent had appointed
                    Alexis Loranger dit Maisonville, a Canadien trader long resident along the 
                        Wabash
                    , to act as his agent among the 
                        Wabash
                     confederacy. But Maisonville earned the enmity of the Miamis during a soap opera of
                    personal squabbles and commercial rivalries at Miamis Town in 1774, and he consequently lost his
                    influence with the tribes and hence his ability to further British interests. When Lord led 
                        Kaskaskia
                    's garrison to 
                        Detroit
                     in 1776, he held councils with the Indians at 
                        Vincennes
                    , Ouiatanon, and Miamis Town to negotiate a safe passage through their lands. Although
                    he succeeded in this, his speeches also informed the tribesmen that the last vestige of British
                    power was leaving the 
                  Illinois-Wabash
                country. Thus, while Abbott paused at 
                        Detroit
                    , news from the wintering grounds west of the 
                        Wabash
                     and south of Lake 
                        Michigan
                     spoke of "war on all sides," meaning hard feelings and violent
                    clashes between Indians and white traders. In the absence of any effective authority to regulate the
                    fur trade, unscrupulous dealings and abundant liquor led to an inordinate number of incidents
                    involving Canadien as well as British and Anglo-American traders. The task of convincing the haughty
                    warriors of the 
                        Wabash
                     to abandon ingrained prejudices and practices and to join an intertribal coalition
                    favoring the despised British was sorely to test Abbott's assertion that a proper person
                    could govern the tribes easily.17
            
            After some delay owing to poor weather, Abbott finally set out from 
                        Detroit
                     on April 15, 1777, a week after he had greeted three Canadiens and
                    two Piankashaw chiefs whom the citizens of 
                        Vincennes
                     had sent to act as his escort. In view of the war's continuation in the east
                    and reports from Rocheblave of rebel traffic on the 
                        Ohio
                     River, he wrote Governor Carleton, "I thought it my duty to be at my post as
                    soon as possible that I might prevent the machinations of His Majesty's Enemies and if
                    possible hinder any succour they might receive by the river 
                        Mississippi
                    ." Although Abbott's promotion to captain-lieutenant of the Royal
                    Artillery would be-come effective while he was en route, he recognized that without troops he would
                    "be looked upon as a Cypher," and he therefore begged Carleton to send him a
                    garrison as soon as possible. He 
                  
                     17 The preceding two paragraphs summarize information related with
                            greater detail and extensive documentation in Stevens, "His Majesty's
                            ‘Savage’ Allies," 149-51, 220-22, 674-76, 878-79, 976.
               
                     assured the governor, however, that while awaiting the troops
                    he would "be able to persuade the Indians to keep in our interest, who are now wavering,
                    & ingage them to act offensively if your Excellency thinks proper." Just how he
                    expected to win them over—especially in view of Carleton's ban on Indian-related
                    expenses—he did not say. Still suspicious of 
                        Hamilton
                    , Abbott had not informed him of this prohibition, even after 
                        Hamilton
                     had warned him that along the 
                        Wabash
                     "the Indians are rapacious and the French traders taught Captain Lord that
                    they are not less so." Abbott continued to believe that circumstances permitted him to
                    ignore the governor's verbal directive.18
            
            William Edgar, having been promised a lucrative position as Abbott's government contractor,
                    had earlier advanced Abbott more than £4,500 to pay for a supply of Indian presents and
                    sundry other expenses and now joined the small entourage that accompanied the lieutenant governor up
                    the Maumee. The company also included Abbott's wife and children, thirty-five Canadien boatmen, and three Piankashaw chiefs, including Le Grand Coete. 
                        Hamilton
                     sent along a delegation from the Lakes Tribes to ensure Abbott's welcome along
                    the 
                        Wabash
                    . Led by Egushaway, the principal war chief of the 
                        Detroit
                     Ottawas, these delegates numbered seven Ottawas, two Chippewas, and several
                    Potawatomis, together with the interpreters Eleopole Chesne, Isidore Chesne, and Claude Pierre
                        Gouin.19
            
            
               
                  18 Abbott to Carleton, 
                            Detroit
                        , April 15, 1777, CO 42/37, fols. 35-36; Todd to Edgar, 
                            Montreal
                        , September 12, 1776, Account of Lieutenant Governor Abbott with Andrews &
                        Meldrum, November 25, 1776-April 26, 1777, J. M. Legras to [Abbott], Duposte Vincenne, December
                        15, 1776, Account of Abbott with James Cochran, 
                            Detroit
                        , January 7-April 15, 1777, Todd & McGill to Edgar, 
                            Montreal
                        , February 6, 1777, Receipts of Cutun and of Claude Campau to Edgar, 
                            Detroit
                        , April 14, 1777, Legras, Etate Des fournitures faite par ordre de Mr. le lieutenant
                        Governor abbotte …, 
                            Vincennes
                        , March 16, 1777, Receipt of Codere [?] to Edgar, St. 
                            Vincennes
                        , May 27, 1777, Abbott to Edgar, St. Vincenne, August 6, 1777, pp. 541-42, 566, 567,
                        569-72, 576-79, 586, 589, 626, 641, 651-52, Edgar Papers; Carleton to 
                            Hamilton
                        , Quebec, May 16, 1777, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,781, fol. 5; 
                            Hamilton
                         to Carleton, 
                            Detroit
                        , June 16-July 3, 1777, CO 42/37, fols. 24-25, Accounts of Bills drawn …
                        by Edward Abbott …, April 1, 1777-April 23, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,858, fol. 311,
                        April 1, 1777-July 20, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,832, fol. 13; Dunn to Mathews, Quebec, October
                        10, 1783, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,859, fol. 107; List of Officers of the Royal Regiment
                            of Artillery, 6; Barnhart and Riker, Indiana to 1816, 178.
               
                  19 Abbott to Carleton, 
                            Detroit
                        , April 15, 1777, CO 42/37, fols. 35-36; Receipt of Isidore Chesne to Edgar, April
                        26, 1777, Receipt of Pierre Gouin to Edgar, Miamis Town, May 1, 1777, Legras, fournitures faites
                        aux Outaouas sauteurs et poux par ordre de Mr le Gouverneur abbotte …, St. Vincenne,
                        May 24, 1777, Receipt of Elleopole Chesne to Edgar, St. Vincenne, May 26, 1777, Abbott to Edgar,
                        St. Vincenne, August 6, 1777, pp. 594, 599, 633, 639, 651-52, Edgar Papers; 
                            Hamilton
                         to Carleton, 
                            Detroit
                        , June 16-July 3, 1777, Proceedings of a Council held at 
                            Detroit
                        , June 17-24, 1777, CO 42/37, fols. 24-25, 70-77; Accounts of Bills drawn
                        … By Edward Abbott … April 1, 1777-April 23, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,858,
                        fol. 311, April 1, 1777-July 20, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,832, fol. 13; 
                            Hamilton
                         to Carleton, 
                            Detroit
                        , April 25, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,782, fols. 35-36 (also MPHSC, IX, 433-37);
                        Barnhart and Riker, Indiana to 1816, 178-80.
            
            
            Upon reaching Miamis Town on April 30, Abbott's company encountered a welcoming committee
                    comprised of Jean Marie Philippe Legras and twenty-four members of the 
                        Vincennes
                     militia, 
                        Vincennes
                     interpreter Jean Baptiste Vaudry, the Piankashaw chief Tobacco's Son, and
                    thirty-six Indians representing each of the 
                        Wabash
                     valley tribes. When the Miamis from the surrounding villages joined the Indians already
                    assembled, Abbott found himself playing host to more than five hundred greedy tribesmen and
                    compelled to hire an additional interpreter, Fontenoy de Quindre. Abbott soon discovered that there
                    was "no end to the demands of the Indians." Although he tried to pass across the
                    portage to the 
                        Wabash
                     as quickly as possible, the necessary ceremonies and councils detained him for a week
                    and consumed a considerable amount of his merchandise and foodstuffs. He had to turn to resident
                    trader Charles Beaubien for an additional £490 worth of goods to satisfy the voracity of
                    a people who knew a royal official lacking troops had to substitute bribes for bayonets. From their
                    self-serving protestations of loyalty, however, Abbott concluded that "the greatest
                    Unanimity seems to reign between these Nations, in regard to his Majesty's
                        Interest."20
            
            When Abbott's augmented party reached Ouiatanon on May 14, an even larger throng than had
                    collected at Miamis Town greeted him. He found the Kickapoos, Mascoutens, and Weas there
                    "so numerous and needy" that he "could not pass without great
                    expense." He had to acquiesce in their exorbitant demands, he admitted, because he had
                    "no troops and only a handful of French." Recognizing his weakness, these
                    tribesmen did not accord him as cordial a welcome as those at Miamis Town. At this point,
                    there-fore, Edgar advanced Abbott additional credit to settle the bills of Godefroy &
                    Company (who had equipped passing couriers for six months) and to purchase more provisions and
                    presents for the 
                  
                     20 Abbott to Carleton, Miamis, May 4, 1777, CO 42/36, fols. 302-303; 
                                Hamilton
                             to Carleton, 
                                Detroit
                            , June 16-July 3, 1777, CO 42/37, fols. 24-25; Charles Baubin [Beaubien], Etate
                            generalle des fourniture fait dans Le villajes Des Miamie par ordre de monsieur Le
                            gouverneur abbot … Miamie, May 6, 1777, pp. 22-25, Fort 
                                Vincennes
                             Papers; Account of Lieutenant Governor Abbott with Andrews & Meldrum,
                            November 25, 1776-April 26, 1777, Receipt of Nicholas Lorrain to Ed-gar, Miamies, May 2,
                            1777, J. Porlier benae, Etate Des fournitures faite pour Le service Du Roy au Miami, May 2,
                            1777, Receipt of Mouton & Wiggans to Edgar, Miamis, May 3, 1777, Receipts of Charles
                            Barthlemy and of Poitiney to Edgar, Miamies, May 6, 1777, Charles Gouin, Receipt to Edgar
                            for payment owed to Nicholas Gouin, Miamies Carrying Place, May 11, 1777, J. M. Legras,
                            Fournitures faites aux Volontaires et Sauvages …, st. 
                                Vincennes
                            , April 7, 1777, Legras, Paye aux Volontaires Nommes …, St. Vincenne,
                            May 24, 1777, Receipts of Jean Baptiste Vaudry and of Fontinoy de Quindre to Edgar, St. 
                                Vincennes
                            , May 27, 1777, pp. 566, 600, 601, 602, 603, 604, 605-606, 631, 632, 640, 642,
                            Edgar Papers; Normand MacLeod to 
                                Hamilton
                            , Miamie, October 14, 1778, in Normand MacLeod, 
                                Detroit
                             to Fort Sackuille, 1778–1779: The Journal of Normand
                                MacLeod, edited by William A. Evans (
                                Detroit
                            , 1978), 41.
               
                     Indians. Yet Abbott's offerings, "though very
                    large, were in a manner despised." The chiefs told him that "their ancient Father
                    (the French) never spoke to them without a barn full of goods." That Abbott "left
                    them seemingly well disposed for His Majesty's service" was therefore less the
                    result of his own than of the Ottawas' diplomacy. Probably by reminding the 
                        Wabash
                     headmen of their tradition of friendship and cooperation with the Ottawas, Egushaway
                    fashioned a new alliance between his people and the 
                        Wabash
                     tribes. The chiefs gathered at Ouiatanon presented the 
                        Ottawa
                     delegates with wampum to take back to 
                        Detroit
                     as a sign to the Lakes Tribes of their willingness to join the intertribal coalition
                    initiated the preceding autumn.21
            
            When he disembarked at 
                        Vincennes
                     on May 19, Abbott be-came the first person "bearing His Majesty's
                    commission" to take possession of that strategic hamlet. He began his administration with
                    guarded optimism. The 
                        Wabash
                    , he found, was "perhaps one of the finest rivers in the world," and
                    the people of 
                        Vincennes
                     were apparently friendly. Their respectful reception and initial compliance with his
                    orders encouraged him. After officially relieving Ste. Marie, he had Edgar settle the former acting
                    commandant's bill of some £428 for past Indian expenses and then purchase an
                    additional £2,593 worth of trade goods from James Cochran to provide a supply of Indian
                    presents. Next, Abbott organized the local militia into three companies of fifty men each and
                    selected as their commander Hypolite Beaulon, a merchant who traded with and interpreted for both
                    the Delawares and Weas.22
            
            Abbott recognized the necessity for quickly establishing his authority and regularizing his
                    administration. No sooner had he arrived than he received a note from Rocheblave confirming reports
                    he had heard at 
                        Detroit
                     and along the river concerning Spanish intrigues in British 
                        Illinois
                    . He viewed his own position as 
                  
                     21 Abbott to Carleton, St. 
                                Vincennes
                            , May 26, 1777, CO 42/37, fols. 37-38 (also Beckwith, ed., Letters
                                from Candian Archives, 313-16); Fournitures faites par Godefroy & Co
                            …, Ouia, December 27, 1776-May 15, 1777, pp. 22-25, Fort 
                                Vincennes
                             Papers; 
                                Hamilton
                             to Carleton, 
                                Detroit
                            , June 16-July 3, 1777, Council held at 
                                Detroit
                            , June 17-24, 1777, CO 42/37, fols. 24-25, 70-77; Accounts of Bills drawn
                            … by Edward Abbott … April 1, 1777-April 23, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS.
                            21,858, fol. 311, April 1, 1777-July 20, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,832, fol. 13.
                  
                     22 Abbott to Carleton, St. 
                                Vincennes
                            , May 26, June 9, July 12, 1777, CO 42/37, fols. 37-38, 45-46, 51; Account of
                            Lieutenant Governor Abbott with James Cochran … 
                                Vincennes
                            , May 21, 1777, J. M. Legras, Payement faite a Different Couriers pour Mr. De
                            Rocheblave, St. 
                                Vincennes
                            , May 20, 1777, Receipt of Jean Baptiste Vaudry to Edgar, St. 
                                Vincennes
                            , May 27, 1777, Abbott to Edgar, St. Vincenne, Au-gust 6, 1777, pp. 617-19, 630,
                            640, 651-52, Edgar Papers; Jean Baptiste Racinne dit Ste. Marie, Memoir Des Marchandiss
                            … Post 
                                Vincennes
                            , September 21, 1773-January 6, 1776, closed and signed by Ste. Marie on
                            February 18, 1777, and witnessed by 
                                Vincennes
                             inhabitants on May 27, 1777, pp. 1-18, Fort 
                                Vincennes
                             Papers; 
                                Hamilton
                            's journal entry for December 28, 1778, in Barnhart, 
                        
                                    Hamilton
                                 and Clark, 158.
               
                     particularly vulnerable because he lacked not only troops but
                    also a fort and cannon with which to defend his post against a possible Spanish or rebel incursion.
                    Moreover, he quickly discovered that the Indians as well as the Spanish could intrigue against
                    British authority.
            Although the militia mounted a guard of sorts for the lieutenant governor's person, the
                    absence of a stockaded government center subjected Abbott to the continuous
                    "importunities" of the hundreds of tribesmen who flocked to 
                        Vincennes
                    . Their incessant pestering caused him some apprehension. The Piankashaws of the village
                    nearest 
                        Vincennes
                     and the Delawares of the White River seemed friendly enough, but
                    other tribesmen had told many of the Canadiens privately that the British official
                    "should not live long." Still unwilling to accept the intrusion of British
                    authority into their territory, the 
                        Wabash
                     Indians, Abbott concluded, were "striving to sett [sic] the French [Canadiens] against the English government." Consequently, he sought to
                    protect himself by building a palisade around the cabin in which his family stayed and by asking
                    Rocheblave to send him some of the artillery standing idle at 
                        Kaskaskia
                    's Fort Gage.23
            
            Abbott knew, however, that until a garrison arrived he could maintain the Indians'
                    friendship only by liberally dispensing merchandise to them. The journey from 
                        Detroit
                    , for example, had cost more than £7,500, all charged to his post's
                    Indian department ac-count. Therefore, he dared to ask Carleton to appoint a permanent commissary of
                    Indian affairs for 
                        Vincennes
                     and to recommend Ed-gar for the position. Even before the lieutenant governor reached
                    his post, however, Carleton had seen the bills he had run up at 
                        Detroit
                     and immediately rushed off an angry letter to 
                        Hamilton
                     informing him of the restrictions placed on Abbott's spending. He told 
                        Hamilton
                     to warn Abbott that he would not honor any future unauthorized bills of exchange. He
                    also advised the leading merchants at Quebec and 
                        Montreal
                     to inform their correspondents at 
                        Detroit
                     of this fact. Carleton already contemplated ordering the lieutenant governor back to
                    Quebec if he continued to flout his commands.24
            
            Rocheblave, on the other hand, desperately hoped that Abbott might leave 
                        Vincennes
                     for 
                        Kaskaskia
                    . Ever since Lord's departure 
                  
                     23 Abbott to Carleton, St. 
                                Vincennes
                            , May 26, June 9, July 12, 1777, CO 42/37, fols. 37-38, 45-46, 51; J. M. Legras,
                            Payement faite a Different Couriers pour Mr. De Rocheblave, St. 
                                Vincennes
                            , May 20, 1777, p. 630, Edgar Papers; Memoire d'observations
                            … par Paul Des Ruisseaux, Quebec, August 23, 1777, WO 28/10, fols. 393-394; 
                                Hamilton
                            's journal entry for January 15, 1779, in Barnhart, 
                        
                                    Hamilton
                                 and Clark 164.
                  
                     24 Abbott to Carleton, St. 
                                Vincennes
                            , May 26, June 9, July 12, 1777, CO 42/37, fols. 37-38, 45-46, 51; Carleton to 
                                Hamilton
                            , Quebec, May 16, 1777, HP/BM Add. MSS, 21,781, fol. 5; 
                                Hamilton
                             to Carleton, 
                                Detroit
                            , June 16-July 3, 1777, CO 42/37, fols. 24-25; Todd & McGill to Edgar, 
                                Montreal
                            , May 15, 1777, pp. 613-14,
               
                     He had struggled without troops or money to gain the
                    cooperation of the 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Wabash
                     tribesmen in the face of Indian intransigence, Spanish intrigues, and the interference
                    of Anglo-American and Canadien traders. He especially feared-with good reason-Spanish tampering with
                    the tribes on the British side of the 
                        Mississippi
                     and Spanish assistance to rebels boating military supplies up the 
                        Mississippi
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     from 
                        New Orleans
                     to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . His attempts to win Indian support for river patrols failed completely, including his
                    council in late May with some White River Delawares and a number of the
                    Kickapoos, Mascoutens, and Potawatomis who had wintered along the upper 
                        Illinois
                     River. This meeting, which was observed by George Rogers Clark's spies, went
                    well enough, but Rocheblave managed to persuade the Spanish-influenced Kickapoos, Mascoutens, and
                    Potawatomis only to refrain from constantly making war "upon the subjects of Great
                    Britain." The Delawares, conversely, appeared to him "to be attached to our
                    interests," and their headmen promised "to prevent the pas-sage of the colonists
                    in case of any attempt by their party upon this territory." When the 
                        Delaware
                     chiefs offered him their assistance, however, he sent them to discuss such matters with
                    Abbott. On June 1 he wrote to the lieutenant governor himself and offered to step aside if he would
                    transfer his headquarters to Fort Gage.25
            
            Initially, Abbott viewed the situation a bit more confidently than did Rocheblave, but he soon came
                    to realize that he shared the latter's powerlessness to promote British interests
                    effectively. The military force at his disposal consisted only of Beaulon's militiamen, who
                    might or might not prove willing to defend their own village, and the two 3-pounders and two swivels
                    that Rocheblave sent to him under care of Paul Des Ruisseaux, a reliable Kaskaskian. Abbott placed
                    the cannon in Fort Sackville, as he called the ramshackle palisade around his cabin, a structure 
                        Hamilton
                     later described as being a "miserable picketted work" lacking
                    "platforms for small arms" and even an inside well. During his first month in
                    office he had the opportunity to talk with 
                        Vincennes
                    's leading citizens and with the territory's only Catholic priest,
                    Pere Pierre Gibault of 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , and he believed they would support his government. He mirrored Rocheblave's
                    apprehension about the Spanish, however, and during the summer he repeatedly warned 
                  Edgar Papers (another copy is on p. 643); Boisson fournis par Mr. Rapicaut … 
                                Vincennes
                            , May 19-24, 1777, Abbott to Edgar, St. Vincenne, August 6, 1777, 
                                Hamilton
                             to Edgar, [
                                Detroit
                            ], September 5, 1777, pp. 620-21, 651-52, 653, Edgar Papers; Memoire
                            d'observations … par Paul Des Ruisseaux, Quebec, August 23, 1777, WO
                            28/10, fols. 393-394; Dunn to Mathews, Quebec, October 10, 1783, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,859,
                            fol. 107; Accounts of Bills drawn … by Edward Abbott … April 1,
                            1777-April 23, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,858, fol. 311, April 1, 1777-July 20, 1778, HP/BM
                            Add. MSS. 21,832, fol. 13.
                  
                     25 Stevens, "His Majesty's
                            ‘Savage’ Allies," 670-76, 878-81, 976-83, 1326-30.
               
                     Carleton of the danger from that quarter and solicited troops
                    to protect "this place, as a key to 
                        Canada
                    ." He also kept a wary eye turned eastward, and as one of his first acts he
                    dispatched a few friendly Delawares "toward Fort Pitt to see what is doing
                        there."26
            
            Recognizing his exposed and weak military condition, Abbott now looked to the Indians to provide at
                    most defensive assistance. In fact, with many of the 
                        Wabash
                     tribesmen murmuring against him, the principal goal of his Indian diplomacy became the
                    reconciliation of the Indians to the presence of a British official at 
                        Vincennes
                    . Consequently, Abbott had to engage in negotiations with the Indians and, necessarily,
                    to continue expending government funds on Indian gifts. From June through August he drew an
                    additional £1,211 from several local merchants. In frequent meetings with visiting
                    tribesmen, he informed Carleton in August, "I have done to the best of my judgement to keep
                    the Indians of the Wabache (who are numerous) and the Delawares, in his Majesty's
                    interest." The response of the tribes of the upper 
                        Wabash
                     proved speciously amiable, while the nearby Piankashaws were necessarily accommodating
                    and the White River Delawares surprisingly co-operative. The conferences with
                    the 
                        Delaware
                     chiefs bore the most substantial results. No doubt aided by Beaulon, Abbott confirmed
                    their promises to Rocheblave, including their pledge to warn him "should the Rebels or the
                    Spaniards attempt to come here." For the time being, he counted heavily on Indian support
                    to safeguard his district.27
            
            Therefore, when Rocheblave sent Abbott an alarming—but false—rumor about
                    impending war with 
                        Spain
                     in mid-July, the latter en-gaged Des Ruisseaux not only to carry an urgent letter
                    directly to Carleton but also to visit and treat with the 
                        Wabash
                     tribes on his behalf. Des Ruisseaux spent several days at Ouiatanon delivering
                    Abbott's messages and gifts and trying to persuade the headmen to acknowledge the British
                    as their "father." He spoke first with the assembled Weas, the tribe that had
                    treated Abbott least hospitably during his journey to 
                        Vincennes
                    . The following day he held a 
                  
                     26 Abbott to Carleton, St. 
                                Vincennes
                            , May 26, June 9, July 12, August 3, 1777, CO 42/37, fols. 37-38, 45-46, 51, CO
                            42/38, fol. 88; Memoire d'observations … par Paul Des Ruisseaux, Quebec,
                            August 23, 1777, WO 28/10, fols. 393-394; 
                                Hamilton
                            's journal entry for December 17, 1778, in Barnhart, 
                                Hamilton
                             and Clark, 148-49; Joseph P. Donnelly, Pierre Gibault, Missionary,
                            1737–1802 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1971), 167, n. 29.
                  
                     27 Abbott to Carleton, St. 
                                Vincennes
                            , June 9, July 12, August 3, 1777, CO 42/ 37, fols. 45-46, 51, CO 42/38, fol.
                            88; Abbott to Edgar, St. Vincenne, August 6, 1777, pp. 651-52, Edgar Papers; Memoire
                            d'observations … par Paul Des Ruisseaux, Quebec, August 23, 1777, WO
                            28/10, fols. 393-394; 
                                Hamilton
                             to Carleton, 
                                Detroit
                            , June 16-July 3, 1777, CO 42/37, fols. 24-25; Accounts of Bills drawn
                            … by Edward Abbott …, April 1, 1777-April 23, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS.
                            21,858, fol. 311, April 1, 1777-July 20, 1778 HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,832, fol. 13; Dunn to
                            Mathews, Quebec, October 10, 1783, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,859, fol. 107.
               
                    
                    
                  PHILIPPE-FRANCOIS RASTEL, SIEUR DE ROCHEBLAVE
                  
               
                     similiar council with the Canadien traders and a number of
                    Kickapoo and Mascouten leaders. All the chiefs insisted unctuously that their tribes had always
                    loved peace, and they asked him to assure Abbott of their fidelity. Des Ruisseaux, acting in
                    Abbott's name, gave them a little tobacco and gunpowder and then continued on his way. He
                    probably conducted comparable talks with the Miamis and then sent messages back to 
                        Vincennes
                     indicating a satisfactory outcome to his conferences. By August 13 he was in Quebec
                    delivering Abbott's and Rocheblave's dispatches into the hands of Governor
                        Carleton.28
            
            In the meantime, Abbott received dispatches late in July telling him that Hamilton had begun a broad
                    scale Indian war. On June 16 
                        Hamilton
                     received through Carleton an order in which American Secretary Germain directed the
                    lieutenant governor of 
                        Detroit
                     to initiate Indian raids against the backcountry of 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Germain's order explicitly authorized 
                        Hamilton
                     to rouse the Indians to war, expressly authorized him to recruit as many whites as he
                    thought necessary to aid them, and implicitly authorized him to spend as much money as his guerrilla
                    campaign might require. 
                        Hamilton
                     acted without hesitation. During the first week of July he dispatched the first of many
                    Indian-partisan raiding parties. He also sent out a number of Indian and white couriers to carry his
                    war message to the tribes that had not yet taken up the hatchet. He had greater plans for his
                    frontier war, however, than merely overseeing ignoble forays against hapless settlers.29
            
            
               
                        Hamilton
                     and Jehu Hay shared a vision about the development of the British west and of 
                        Detroit
                    , which, they believed, promised to become a thriving metropolis if they could attract
                    hardworking English colonists to cultivate its potential. They undoubtedly had expressed these views
                    to Abbott, who had probably also participated in similar discussions with Hay, Dederick Brehm, and
                    other officers during his initial decade at 
                        Detroit
                    . 
                        Hamilton
                     hoped that rebel tyranny would drive ambitious farmers of loyal English stock to the
                    frontiers and that Indian depredations would 
                  
                     28 Parole adresse par Monsieur Paul Deruisseaux a touts les Chefs
                            ouiattanon …, Ouiatanon, July 15, 1777, Reponses des Chefs ouiattanon
                            …, July 15, 1777, Parole adresse par les Chefs quiquapous et mascoutins au Mr.
                            Paul Deruisseaux … (et reponse), Ouiatanon, July 16, 1777, WO 28/10, fols.
                            385-386, 387-388, 388-390; Memoire d'observations … par Paul Des
                            Ruisseaux, Quebec, August 23, 1777, WO 28/10, fols. 393-394; Rocheblave to Abbott, Fort
                            Gage, July 7, 1777 (carried to Carleton by Des Ruisseaux and forwarded by Carleton to
                            Germain on August 13, 1777), CO 42/37, fol. 53; Carleton to Abbott, Quebec, September 2,
                            1777, Captain Edward Foy to General Allan Maclean, Quebec, September 5, 8, 1777, HP/BM Add.
                            MSS. 21,699, pp. 172-73, 176.
                  
                     29 Stevens, "His Majesty's
                            ‘Savage’ Allies," 1029-56; idem,"
                            ‘Placing Proper Per-sons at Their Head’: Henry Hamilton and the
                            Establishment of the British Revolutionary-Era Indian Department at 
                                Detroit
                            , 1777," The Old Northwest, XII (Summer,
                        1986).
               
                     then prompt them to seek refuge at 
                        Detroit
                    . To this end, he not only cautioned his raiders to treat noncombatants with mercy, but
                    he also provided their leaders with handbills (or placards) to post wherever they went. These
                    handbills (which Abbott also seems to have issued) offered safe conduct, humane treatment, military
                    rank and pay, and a 200-acre bounty to any frontiersman who withdrew to 
                        Detroit
                     and served the king. 
                        Hamilton
                     had been informed that loyalism was widespread among backcountry folk, and he truly
                    expected such people to form the nucleus of a new British 
                        Detroit
                    . Thus, he attempted to wage a contradictory, dual-natured campaign, using the stick of
                    rampaging warriors and the carrot of safe, free farmland to frighten and to lure frontierspeople
                    into joining the royal standard at 
                        Detroit
                     and other British posts.30
            
            The campaign remained solely 
                        Hamilton
                    's, however. When for-warding Germain's order to 
                        Hamilton
                    , Carleton had enclosed information copies for both Abbott and Rocheblave, but the
                    American secretary's instructions pertained to 
                        Hamilton
                     alone. Germain had nowhere given Abbott authority to instigate an Indian war, and
                    Carleton, who disapproved of Germain's course, was not compelled to permit Abbott or
                    Rocheblave the unchecked spending powers he had to grant 
                        Hamilton
                     or to order them to involve the 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     tribes in the war. While Carleton was unwilling to order Abbott's involvement,
                    Hamilton was unable to order Abbott to participate in the campaign because he had no authority over
                    his col-league at 
                        Vincennes
                    . Even if Abbott had been asked to engage the Indians, moreover, he learned from the
                    same dispatches that he would never be able to furnish the enormous amounts of gifts, equipment, and
                    munitions they would demand before condescending to help the British.
            When 
                        Hamilton
                     sent Abbott his copy of Germain's order, he also wrote to him about
                    Carleton's objections to his spending habits and had quoted the governor's vow
                    that in the future "none of His [Abbott's] Bills will be answered."
                    William Edgar, Abbott's principal creditor, had transmitted the same distressing news from 
                        Detroit
                    . Despite these warnings, however, Abbott went on spending money for several weeks. He
                    did so, he informed Carleton, solely because of his zeal to secure the goodwill of the 
                        Wabash
                     tribes, but in reality he defied the governor because he thought he had more influence
                    with the Colonial Office than did Carleton. Late in Au-gust, however, he received a letter Carleton
                    had written on May 22 that told him in no uncertain terms to discontinue all expenditures. Faced
                    with certain financial ruin without government sup-port for his credit, Abbott tried after that to
                    eliminate all expenses for Indian affairs, except a salary for an interpreter. Pulling tight 
                  
                     30 Stevens, "His Majesty's
                            ‘Savage’ Allies," 1287-94; idem,
                            "‘Placing Proper Per-sons at Their Head.’"
               
                     the purse strings, however, effectually strangled his Indian
                        diplomacy.31
            
            Before the arrival of Carleton's letter, Abbott had still clung to the hope that he would be
                    able to engage the tribes of his district in the king's service. At the time he learned of
                    the ministry's decision to enlist the Lakes and 
                        Ohio
                     tribes in its 1777 campaign, he had felt confident that his and Des
                    Ruisseaux's parleys had won over the 
                        Wabash
                     nations. When he realized that he was going to be left out of the year's
                    military operations, in fact, he wrote to Carleton on August 3 to assert that "at this time
                    [I] can have a thousand [warriors] at my Command to act wherever your Excellency may think
                    proper." Yet, in presuming that the 
                        Wabash
                     tribesmen might aid the British cause if Carleton financed their employment, Abbott-and 
                        Hamilton
                    -badly misjudged the Indians' temper. Whatever platitudes the chiefs mouthed
                    when British officials faced them in council, the 
                        Wabash
                     confederacy, in whole or in part, was far from ready to join any undertaking backed by
                    the long-despised British. This became clear when 
                        Hamilton
                    's agents carried his war belt up the Maumee late in July.32
            
            The Miami nation refused to commit itself to the British war. Charles Beaubien and Lieutenant
                    Fontenoy de Quindre, newly appointed agents of 
                        Hamilton
                    's Indian department, persuaded a few war chiefs to take out raiding parties,
                    but even these eventually returned without having struck a blow. During the absence of these
                    warriors, the Miamis "called the Head Men & Capts. of their Nation"
                    together at Miamis Town to discuss the war belt. They knew that the Lakes Tribes and most of the 
                        Ohio
                     nations had accepted it, but they also listened to a 
                        Delaware
                     messenger announce that his tribe's pro-American 
                        Ohio
                     chiefs "would not receive the Tom-hawk." After due deliberation upon
                    the British axe, the 
                        Delaware
                     envoy reported, "the Twightwees [Miamis] sent it back again to the Govr. and
                    said it would be the ruin of their Nation if they took it." The 
                        Delaware
                     envoy also disclosed that representatives of the Weas, Kickapoos, and other 
                        Wabash
                     tribes attended the Miamis' council and concurred in their decision. This was
                    shown to be true during late August or early September when 
                        Hamilton
                    's agent at Ouiatanon, 
                  
                     31 Germain to Carleton, Whitehall, March 26, 1777 (No. 14), CO 42/36,
                            fols. 69-73 (see also the copy in HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,698, fols. 3-4); Todd & McGill
                            to Edgar, 
                                Montreal
                            , May 15, 1777, pp. 613-14, Edgar Papers; Carleton to 
                                Hamilton
                            , Quebec, May 16, 21, 22, 1777, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,781, fols. 5, 4, 5-6; 
                                Hamilton
                             to Carleton, 
                                Detroit
                            , June 16-July 3, 1777, CO 42/37, fols. 24-25; Abbott to Carleton, St. 
                                Vincennes
                            , August 3, September 26, 1777, CO 42/38, fols. 88, 99; Abbott to Edgar, St.
                            Vincenne, August 6, 1777, 
                                Hamilton
                             to Edgar, [
                                Detroit
                            ], September 5, 1777, pp. 651-52, 653, Edgar Papers; Accounts of Bills drawn
                            … by Edward Abbott …, April 1, 1777-April 23, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS.
                            21,858, fol. all, April 1, 1777-July 20, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,832, fol. 13.
                  
                     32 Abbott to Carleton, St. 
                                Vincennes
                            , June 9, August 3, 1777, CO 42/37, fols. 45-46, CO 42/38, fol. 88.
               
                     Jean Baptiste de Celoron, received orders from 
                        Detroit
                     "to present the hatchet to the Indians" of the 
                        Wabash
                    . Despite Celoron's personal influence and British-supplied presents, the 
                        Wabash
                     confederacy would have none of it. When Celoron offered the war belt to the Weas,
                    Kickapoos, and Mascoutens, they rudely refused it.33
            
            By the end of the summer, therefore, British policy toward the 
                  Wabash-Illinois
                tribes had run
                    afoul of both fiscal stringency and Indian intransigence. Deprived of their credit and excluded from
                    the ministry's general orders for the year's operations, Abbott and Rocheblave had
                    neither the authority nor the means to draw the neighboring Indians actively into the war, even
                    though each would have done so had he been able. Instead, they hoped at best to maintain the
                    tribesmen's reluctant toleration of the British officials in their country and to secure
                    their promises to oppose any other Euro-American intruders. Conversely, 
                        Hamilton
                    , whose strategic vision encompassed the lands and peoples of the 
                  Wabash-Illinois
               
                    region, had been given a free hand and a blank check by the ministry for raising the warriors of
                    whichever tribes he wished. When he tried to enlist the 
                        Wabash
                     confederacy, however, he found himself and his intertribal coalition rebuffed by
                    proud-minded nations that had always disdained the British and still retained secure commercial
                    connections with friendly Canadien and Spanish traders. During 1777, therefore, neither the powerful
                    tribes of the 
                        Wabash
                     nor the puny 
                        Illinois
                     tribes participated in the destructive raids 
                        Hamilton
                     sponsored against the frontiers.
            Abbott had grown increasingly discouraged ever since reaching 
                        Vincennes
                    , and by November he had given up all hope of coping with his district's
                    intrusive Spaniards, inconstant Canadiens, and intractable Indians. Because of Carleton's
                    parsimony with men and money, Abbott had come to realize that he could neither re-verse nor even
                    stem the relentless deterioration of Britain's al-ready feeble authority. He learned early
                    that month, for instance, that the Spanish had sent wampum belts among the tribes of the 
                  
                     33 Abbott to Carleton, St. 
                                Vincennes
                            , August 3, September 26, 1777, CO 42/38, fols. 88, 99; 
                                Hamilton
                             to Germain, 
                                Detroit
                            , July 27, 1777, CO 42/37, fols. 55-56; 
                                Hamilton
                             and Jehu Hay, Return of Parties of Indians sent from 
                                Detroit
                             against the Rebels after the 2d July 1777, WO 28/10, fol. 396; Carl John
                            Fliegel, comp., Index to the Records of the Moravian Mission among the Indians of North
                            America (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1970), 1053 ("Twichtwee": 7-15-1777); David
                            Zeisberger to General Edward Hand, Cuchachunk, September 23, 1777, Reuben G. Thwaites and
                            Louise P. Kellogg, eds., Frontier Defense on the Upper 
                                Ohio
                            , 1777–1778 (
                        Madison,
                                    Wisc
                     ., 1912), 101-103; Meeting
                            between the Commissioners and Captain White Eyes & other Delawares, 
                                Pittsburgh
                            , April 26, 1778, Vol. III, George Morgan Letterbooks (Carnegie Library of
                                    
                        Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh
                     ); 
                                Hamilton
                            's journal entry for November 19, 1778, in Barnhart, 
                                Hamilton
                             and Clark, 124-25; MacLeod's journal entries for October 13, November
                            19-20, 1778, in MacLeod, 
                                Detroit
                             to Fort Sackuille, 33, 82-84; Memoire de Service que Louis Lorimier a
                            1'honneur de representer …, Riviere aux Roches, December 28, 1782, HP/BM
                            Add. MSS. 21,831, fols. 57-60.
               
                    
                    
                        Wabash
                     with the intention, he surmised, of "setting the Indians against us."
                    The Spaniards' message, which claimed that the 
                        Wabash
                     valley belonged to the Spanish crown, invited the Indians "to come &
                    trade with them where they shall have as much Rum as they please & Merchandise at a much
                    cheaper rate than the English or French can sell to them, who only impose on them." Always
                    sensible about a bargain, the Indians were carrying most of their peltry across the 
                        Mississippi
                     to the Spanish settlements. This development naturally distressed the local merchants,
                    men not likely to support a regime that could not protect their trade. Capturing the
                    Indians' trade, Abbott believed, represented the first step in a Spanish plan to take over
                    British 
                        Illinois
                    , by force if necessary. "The Spaniards … wait only the decision of
                    our present troubles with the colonies] to break with us," he wrote to Captain Richard B.
                    Lernoult (then stationed at Niagara), "when they think we shall be exhausted."34
            
            The lieutenant governor concluded that same November that he could not rely upon the Indians for help
                    in combatting invaders, whatever the fair promises their chiefs had made. He had learned by then
                    from Celoron that the 
                        Wabash
                     confederacy had refused 
                        Hamilton
                    's war belt. Abbott had decided, moreover, that even the White
                    River Delawares, the one tribe that had actually offered its military assistance, were
                    "a set of Rascals," for he had just heard that the Delawares "have made
                    Peace with the Rebels." In reality, this report probably told merely of one of the periodic
                    resolutions of neutrality issued by the chiefs of the 
                        Ohio
                     Delawares. Although the White River band very likely did not
                    subscribe wholeheartedly-or perhaps at all-to the policy of the 
                        Ohio
                     chiefs, Abbott nevertheless took the news as another substantial setback for his Indian
                        diplomacy.35
            
            He poured out his pessimism in letters to colleagues like Lernoult and Rocheblave. His correspondence
                    with the latter, how-ever, only revealed that British fortunes worsened more rapidly at 
                        Kaskaskia
                     than at 
                        Vincennes
                    . Rocheblave complained bitterly about blatant efforts by the Spanish to expel the
                    British from 
                        Illinois
                     and about the shortsightedness of Carleton's forsaking a territory which
                    someday "would be perhaps one of the richest colonies which his Majesty
                    possesses." Rocheblave's dejection only exacerbated that of 
                  
                     34 Abbott to Carleton, St. 
                                Vincennes
                            , November 16, 1777 (extract), CO 42/38, fol. 92; Abbott to Captain Richard B.
                            Lernoult, 
                                Vincennes
                            , November 23, 1777, quoted at length in Lieutenant Colonel 
                                Mason
                             Bolton to Carleton, Niagara, February 4, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,756, fol. 59;
                            Rocheblave to Germain, Fort Gage, January 22, 1778, Rocheblave to Carleton, Fort Gage,
                            February 18, 1778, in 
                                Mason
                            , ed., "Rocheblave Papers," 395-97, 401-406.
                  
                     35 Abbott to Carleton, St. 
                                Vincennes
                            , November 16, 1777 (extract), CO 42/38, fol. 92; Abbott to Lernoult, 
                                Vincennes
                            , November 23, 1777, quoted at lengh in Bolton to Carleton, Niagara, February 4,
                            1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,756, fol. 59.
               
                     Abbott. By mid-November Abbott had had enough. He packed his
                    trunks and prepared to abandon his government. He assembled the "principal People"
                    of 
                        Vincennes
                     to inform them of his intention to go to 
                        Detroit
                     and "to settle a Police till my return." The following day, however,
                    these leading citizens begged him to stay, promising even to transform his rickety stockade into a
                    proper fort at their own expense. Against his better judgment, Abbott agreed to re-main through the
                    winter. By this time, however, he knew all too well that he kept his position only at the sufferance
                    of the white and Indian inhabitants of his district.36
            
            During the ensuing months, furthermore, Abbott also realized that he had been abandoned by Carleton.
                    The last word he had received from his superior was the angry financial edict that had reached him
                    in late August. When Des Ruisseaux delivered Abbott's and Rocheblave's pleas for
                    support, as well as his own lengthy report on the values of the 
                  Illinois-Wabash
                country, in
                    mid-August, Carleton declined to prepare a substantive reply. Instead, he sent Des Ruisseaux back
                    with a curt note telling Abbott he would honor a bill for the emissary's
                    expenses—after Abbott verified them. This perfunctory message formed his last written
                    communication to 
                        Vincennes
                    's lieutenant governor. He never responded to Abbott's inquiries about
                    how he was to protect his government and conduct Indian affairs without troops or money.37 Abbott did not even see this final note, moreover, because Des Ruisseaux was
                    unable to reach 
                        Vincennes
                     before winter weather blocked the rivers and trails. Ruminating on the
                    governor's silence, Abbott understood finally that he had fallen under Carleton's
                    "displeasure," and he came to feel himself "obliged to leave the place
                    agreable to a former order of his not to incur any expence." He explained later to Germain
                    that events during the winter convinced "me to leave the place before the Indians returned
                    from their winter Hunt, knowing they would be much exasperated by my not making large
                        presents."38
            
            
               
                  36 Abbott to Carleton, St. 
                            Vincennes
                        , November 16, 1777 (extract), CO 42/38, fol. 92; Abbott to Lernoult, 
                            Vincennes
                        , November 23, 1777, quoted at length in Bolton to Carleton, Niagara, February 4,
                        1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,756, fol. 59; Rocheblave to Germain, Fort Gage, January 22, 1778,
                        Rocheblave to Carleton, Fort Gage, February 18, 1778, in 
                            Mason
                        , ed., "Rocheblave Papers," 395-97, 401-406.
               
                  37 Rocheblave to Abbott, 
                            Kaskaskia
                        , July 7, 1777, Abbott to Carleton, St. 
                            Vincennes
                        , July 12, 1777, CO 42/37, fols. 53, 51; Memoire d'observations
                        … par Paul Des Ruisseaux, Quebec, August 3, 1777, WO 28/10, fols. 393-394; Carleton
                        to Abbott, Quebec, September 2, 1777, Foy to Maclean, Quebec, September 5, 8, 1777, HP/BM Add.
                        MSS. 21,699, pp. 172-73, 176; Abbott to Germain, 
                            Detroit
                        , April 3, 1778, CO 42/38, fols. 161-162.
               
                  38 Abbot to Germain, 
                            Detroit
                        , April 3, 1778, CO 42/38, fols. 161-162; Abbott to Carleton, 
                            Detroit
                        , April 25, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,782, fols. 39-40 (also MPHSC, IX, 488;
                        Beckwith, ed., Letters from Canadian Archives, 317-18); 
                            Hamilton
                         to Carleton, 
                            Detroit
                        , April 25, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,782, fols. 35-36; James Sterling to Germain, 
                            London
                        , December 24, 1779, Vol. XI, George Germain Papers (William L. Clements Library,
                                
                     Ann Arbor, Michigan
                  ); cited hereafter as Germain Papers.
            
            
            When Abbott informed Rocheblave of this decision, the horrified 
                        Kaskaskia
                     commandant hurried overland to 
                        Vincennes
                     at once, hoping to find some means of preventing Abbott's going. During a
                    brief conference at the end of January he begged Abbott to remain at 
                        Vincennes
                     or at least to join him at 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , but Abbott would not change his mind. Although he had heard that come spring many
                    loyalists from the 
                        Pittsburgh
                     area, having "determined to take the benefit of my placart
                    [handbill]," would seek a refuge at 
                        Vincennes
                     "from the oppression of the Rebels," he believed that
                    Carleton's spending proscription left him no alternative but to leave before they or the 
                        Wabash
                     tribesmen showed up at Fort Sackville's gate. Costly experience had taught him
                    that he dared not "meet thou-sands of savages, without presents of ammunition, Liquor,
                    & Merchandise." "Notwithstanding every precaution in my power,"
                    he confessed, "I have [already] been obliged to incurr a great expence to keep the Indians
                    in the crown's interest." Since receiving Carleton's last warning about
                    expenditures, in fact, he had doled out to the tribesmen goods costing some £3,745, a
                    bill the governor might well refuse to pay.39
            
            Consequently, while Rocheblave glumly embarked upon a re-turn voyage to 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , Abbott bade farewell to the citizens of 
                        Vincennes
                     on February 3. Abbott thought the inhabitants were still "firm in their
                    allegiance to defend Fort Sackville against all enemies of Great Britain," but he
                    nevertheless recognized that they thought "themselves cast off from His Majesty's
                    protection." His departure, coming after so short a stay and the earlier withdrawal of
                    Lord's garrison, effectually forfeited Britain's last semblance of authority in
                    the region, particularly with the tribes of the 
                        Wabash
                     valley. Whatever the attendant expense, Abbott still recognized and advocated
                    "the utility of a Person to command at St Vincenne to prevent the Savages entering into the
                    Rebels service." By abandoning his post so precipitately, Rocheblave feared, the lieutenant
                    governor ran "the risk of having the doors shut upon him for a long time to come by the
                    Indians who have been tampered with by our [Spanish] neighbors." Therefore, Abbott did what
                    little he could to provide for the management of Indian and civil affairs in his absence.
                    Nonetheless, he left Britain's Canadien stewards not only 
                  
                     39 Rocheblave to Germain, Fort Gage, January 22, and February 28,
                            1778, and Rocheblave to Carleton, Fort Gage, February 18, 1778, in 
                                Mason
                            , ed., "Rocheblave Papers," 395-97, 407-408, 401-406; Abbott
                            to Germain, 
                                Detroit
                            , April 3, 1778, CO 42/38, fols. 161-162; Abbott to Carleton, 
                                Detroit
                            , April 25, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,782, fols. 39-40; Accounts of Bills drawn
                            … by Edward Abbott …, April 1, 1777-April 23, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS.
                            21,858, fol. 311, April 1, 1777-July 20, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,832, fol. 13; Account of
                            Bills drawn for His Majesty's Service by the Commanding Officers and Lieutenant
                            Governors in the Upper Country, and paid by Thomas Dunn Esqr. by order of His Excellency
                            General Haldimand, Quebec, May 5, 1779, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,749, fol. 71.
               
                     without the military and financial support they had lacked
                    since 1776 but also without any shred of faith in royal government by the general public.40
            
            Abbott entrusted crown business at 
                        Vincennes
                     to Major Beaulon, his militia commander. He gave Beaulon brief written instructions
                    that emphasized the importance of maintaining Fort Sackville in good repair, of preventing the
                    inhabitants from occupying the ground cleared for the fort's outer emplacements, and of
                    offering protection to any frontier people seeking refuge from the rebels. Regarding the Indians, he
                    only ordered the major to "punish severely" any inhabitants who violated the
                    provision of the provincial trade ordinance of 1777 prohibiting the sale of liquor to Indians
                    without a proper license. Clearly, he also expected Beaulon to act as the king's spokesman
                    to any tribesmen visiting 
                        Vincennes
                    , much as Ste. Marie had once done. Before leaving he also sent Jacques Timothe Boucher,
                    Sieur de Monbreun, who perhaps carried hand-bills Abbott had patterned on 
                        Hamilton
                    's, down the 
                        Wabash
                     to survey the situation along and beyond the 
                        Ohio
                     and to sound out the reportedly double-dealing Delawares of the White
                    River. Unable to afford another council, Abbott apparently did not meet with the
                    neighboring Piankashaws to explain his withdrawal. When he passed by Ouiatanon, however, he could
                    not avoid the tribesmen there, and he had to ask Celoron to distribute in his name merchandise
                    costing £463. Thereafter, Celoron, who acted with 
                        Hamilton
                    's financial support, became the only effective crown officer beyond the Maumee-
                        Wabash
                     portage.41
            
            As news of Abbott's departure spread, tribal leaders in the 
                  Illinois-Wabash
                country seemed
                    to cast about to identify and take the measure of the remaining representatives of the European
                    powers with which they must still conduct their trade. At the same time, the perennial raiding and
                    horse stealing done by young warriors contributed further to the region's instability.
                    During February and March Celoron helped equip several parties of Kickapoos, Mascoutens, and Weas,
                    totaling about fifty men, which set off "to 
                  
                     40 Rocheblave to Germain, Fort Gage, January 22, February 28, 1778,
                            Rocheblave to Carleton, Fort Gage, February 18, 1778, in 
                                Mason
                            , ed., "Rocheblave Papers," 395-97, 407-408, 401-406; Abbott
                            to Germain, 
                                Detroit
                            , April 3, 1778, CO 42/38, fols. 161-162; Abbott to Carleton, 
                                Detroit
                            , April 25, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,782, fols. 39-40.
                  
                     41 Abbott to Hypolite Beaulon, St. 
                                Vincennes
                            , February 3, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,782, fol. 15; Abbott to Germain, 
                                Detroit
                            , April 3, 1778, CO 42/38, fols. 161-162; Report of Timothe de Monbrun, St.
                            Vincenne, April 12, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,782, fols. 64-65; Abbott to Carleton, 
                                Detroit
                            , April 25, 1778, HP/ BM Add. MSS. 21,782, fols. 39-40; Bill of Exchange for
                            Monsr. Celoron drawn by Abbott, 
                                Detroit
                            , July 20, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,858, fol. 16; Abbott to Haldimand, Fort St.
                            John, September 22, 1783, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,859, fols. 102-103; Account of Bills drawn
                            … by Edward Abbott …, April 1, 1777-July 20, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS.
                            21,832, fol. 13.
               
                     war towards the 
                        Ohio
                    ." 
                        Hamilton
                    , presuming they heeded his war belt, forwarded arms and ammunition to Ouiatanon
                    "to gratify those among them who behave well," but they had merely set foot on the
                    traditional warpath leading south against the Chickasaws and anyone else they might encounter. Only
                    the White River Delawares, far from having gone over to the rebels, shared
                    interests with the British. In response to an invitation, a war chief led a 
                        Delaware
                     deputation to 
                        Kaskaskia
                     on March 17. He told Rocheblave that his people had discovered five or six hundred
                    rebels constructing a fort on the Cumberland River not far south of the 
                        Ohio
                    . This news moved the commandant to appeal to 
                        Hamilton
                     for troops and supplies because "we are upon the eve of great events in this
                    country." The Delawares also reported that they had attacked these rebels, killing four of
                    them and losing one of their chiefs. Rather than simply keeping their pledges to Rocheblave and
                    Abbott to repel invaders, they more likely resented seeing whites overrun their new hunting grounds
                    as relentlessly as they had occupied 
                        Delaware
                     lands in the east.42
            
            In telling this tale, moreover, the war captain exaggerated. His rebel horde was no more than eight
                    families just settled some-where along the 
                        Cumberland
                    . Monbreun visited them during February or March and found them amenable to
                    Abbott's offer of asylum under British protection. They refused to emigrate to 
                        Vincennes
                    , however, until he could guarantee them safe passage; Indians had already attacked
                    their party while it descended the Tennessee River and killed three of their
                    men. Monbreun learned the identity of their assailants when he met with the Delawares during his
                    return to 
                        Vincennes
                    . Encouraged by a wampum belt from Rocheblave, the Delawares intended to strike the
                    settlers again, and they demanded that Monbreun accompany twenty of their warriors back to the 
                        Cumberland
                     "to ravage all the habitations and to kill all the English [colonists] they
                    found on that river." When he declined to join them, they voiced some bitterness about the
                    British allowing their Indian friends to suffer an enemy invasion unaided. Monbreun promised only to
                    forward their declaration of loyalty and their request for powder, ball, and other necessaries 
                  
                     42 Rocheblave to Carleton, Fort Gage, February 18, 1778, Rocheblave to 
                                Hamilton
                            , Fort Gage, March 17, 1778, in 
                                Mason
                            , ed., "Rocheblave Papers," 401-406, 409; Report of Timothe de
                            Monbrun, St. Vincenne, April 12, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,782, fols. 64-65; 
                                Hamilton
                             to Carleton, 
                                Detroit
                            , April 25, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,782, fols. 35-36; Richard McCarty to John
                            Askin, St. Urseuls at the 
                                Illinois
                            , June 7, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,757, fol. 7 (also MPHSC, IX, 368-69; Clarence
                            W. Alvord, ed., 
                                Kaskaskia
                             Records, 1778–1790 (Collections of the 
                                Illinois State
                             Historical Library, Vol. V; 
                                Springfield
                            , 1909), 44-45; 
                                Hamilton
                             to Germain, 
                                Detroit
                            , June 7, 1778, CO 42/38, fols. 163-164; Proceedings of a council with the
                            Ouiattanons, Quiquaboues, and Mascoutins, 
                                Detroit
                            , June 29-July 3, 1778, HP/ BM Add. MSS. 21,782, fols. 52-54 (also MPHSC, IX,
                            452-58).
               
                     to the absent lieutenant governor. The report he dispatched
                    from 
                        Vincennes
                     on April 12 also called attention to the apparent anomaly of simultaneously encouraging
                    loyalist migration and Indian raids and prompted a last outburst of frustration from Abbott to his
                        superiors.43
            
            Abbott and his family had reached 
                        Detroit
                     on March 7 "after a painful journey of thirty three days through the
                    woods." He immediately set about justifying his pullout to British authorities. He also
                    tried to convince them of the importance of the 
                  Illinois-Wabash
                region and urged them
                    to expend the money necessary to de-fend it properly. He wrote first to Germain, pointing out
                    Carleton's ultimate responsibility for his abandoning his government, and three weeks later
                    to Carleton, detailing the state of affairs at 
                        Vincennes
                    . He observed returning war parties and attended some of 
                        Hamilton
                    's Indian councils, and he also must have talked a good deal about the war and
                    the 
                        Wabash
                     with 
                        Hamilton
                    , who thereafter would have to assume a greater responsibility for that district. Owing
                    to Abbott's discouraging words, 
                        Hamilton
                     became convinced that "it must be impossible for the Ouabash Indians to be
                    kept in order without a vast expense in presents or the presence of some Troops." The
                    outposts southwest of 
                        Detroit
                     manifestly needed British officers and soldiers, he informed Carleton, because the
                    minds of the Indians "are poisoned by the falsehoods and misrepresentations of the French
                    [Canadiens]." Because Britain had failed to enforce its authority for so long, he now
                    understood that the tribes had formed "a presumption of their own importance"
                    which made them inveterately "arrogant and troublesome." Nonetheless, Abbott, ever
                    since returning to the west, had hoped to win them over and employ them in King George's
                    interest. The financial considerations of Indian management alone had compelled him to leave 
                        Vincennes
                     once he realized that Carleton's refusal of support threatened him with
                        bankruptcy.44
            
            The receipt of Monbreun's report on June 7, however, brought to a head doubts about British
                    frontier policy that had been brewing in Abbott's mind. More clearly than 
                        Hamilton
                     ever did, Abbott had come to recognize the paradox underlying the carrot-and-stick
                    tactics initiated by Hamilton in 1777. On the eighth he forwarded Monbreun's letter to
                    Carleton together with an impassioned note 
                  
                     43 Report of Timothe de Monbrun, St. Vincenne, April 12, 1778, HP/BM
                            Add. MSS. 21,782, fols. 64-65; Rocheblave to Carleton, Fort Gage, February 18, 1778, and
                            Rocheblave to 
                                Hamilton
                            , Fort Gage, March 17, 1778, in 
                                Mason
                            , ed., "Rocheblave Papers," 401-406, 409.
                  
                     44 Abbott to Germain, 
                                Detroit
                            , April 3, 1778, CO 42/38, fols. 161-162; Abbott to Carleton, 
                                Detroit
                            , April 25, June 8, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,782, fols. 39-40, 41-42; 
                                Hamilton
                             to Carleton, 
                                Detroit
                            , April 25, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,782, fols. 35-36; Council held at 
                                Detroit
                            , June 14-20, 1778, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,782, fols. 46-51, 55 (also MPHSC, IX,
                            442-52).
               
                     stating that the governor could "plainly perceive the
                    employing of Indians has been of great hurt to the cause." "Many hundreds [of
                    settlers] would have put themselves under His Majesty's protection," he asserted,
                    had they not been prevented by marauding Indians. Faced with British-sponsored Indian raids,
                    "These poor unhappy people are forced to take up arms against their Sovereign, or be
                    pillaged & left to starve; cruel alternative." He now thought it
                    "shocking" that "it is not people in arms that Indians will ever daringly
                    attack, but [only] the poor inoffensive families who fly to the deserts [backcountry] to be out of
                    trouble [from the Revolution], and who are inhumanely butchered sparing neither women or
                    children." To those who "said it is necessary to employ Indians to pre-vent their
                    serving our enemies," he offered a startling—and possible
                    practical—alternative. "I will be bold to say," he explained,
                    "their keeping a neutrality will be equally (if not more) serviceable to us as their going
                    to war, for the reason I have already gave [alienating loyalists and neutrals]; & surely the
                    presents they receive will prevent their acting against us." He appealed to
                    Carleton's "known humanity" to "put a stop" to the
                    Indians' indiscriminate guerrilla warfare.45
            
            Although Abbott's change of heart eventually won him history's laurels as a
                    humanitarian gentleman, it did not change British Indian policy in any way. Abbott's new
                    analysis of the Indians' role in Britain's wartime strategy was probably the most
                    perceptive-and assuredly the most novel—presented by a royal official during the
                    Revolution, but it never found a receptive audience. Carleton, certainly in agreement with such a
                    viewpoint, had resigned and left for 
                        England
                     before Abbott's letter reached Quebec, and the next governor, Haldimand, was
                    committed to using Indian raids as part of a policy of active defense for his province.
                    Abbott's radical concept of Indian neutrality was shared only by Thomas Pownall, a former
                    royal governor of 
                        Massachusetts
                    , whose advocacy of the idea had already been ignored by the House of Commons in
                    February, 1778, and by most Indian leaders, who strove with varying degrees of success to keep their
                    peoples as little involved as possible in the Englishmen's civil war. Abbott himself never
                    returned to 
                        Vincennes
                     or to any other position of authority involving Indian affairs.46
            
            The turn of events in the Midwest during the ensuing summer—namely the rebels'
                    occupation of the 
                  Illinois-Wabash
                towns—caused Haldimand to recall Abbott to 
                        Montreal
                    , where he spent the following winter and spring serving on mundane regulatory
                    commissions 
                  
                     45 Abbott to Carleton, 
                                Detroit
                            , June 8, 1778, Report of Timothe de Monbrun, St. Vincenne, April 12, 1778,
                            HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,782, fols. 41-42, 64-65.
                  
                     46 Stevens, "His Majesty's
                            ‘Savage’ Allies," 1771-80, 1820-25, 1830-42.
               
                     that set the price of wheat and bread and granted tavern
                    licenses. In 1779 Haldimand settled most of the bills Abbott had drawn at 
                        Vincennes
                     and accepted his offer to return to duty with the Royal Artillery. For the remaining
                    four years of the war Abbott commanded the gunners at Fort St. Johns on the Richelieu
                        River near Lake Champlain. The troubles that had driven him from 
                        Vincennes
                     did not catch up with him again until late in 1783, when he was hauled into court and
                    briefly jailed for defaulting on the bill of exchange with which he had paid for the Indian goods
                    furnished by Celoron at Ouiatanon in 1778. Haldimand reluctantly settled this debt in order to free
                    him to take an artillery detachment to 
                        Dominica
                     in the West Indies. He sailed from Quebec on October 23, 1783, but he seems to have
                    fared no better in the Caribbean than he had on the 
                        Wabash
                    . Probably still plagued by his penchant for ignoring or overstepping his
                    superior's orders, Captain Edward Abbott, former lieutenant governor of 
                        Vincennes
                    , was court martialed and cashiered from the Royal Artillery on December 20,
                        1787."47
            
            
               
                  47 Quebec Gazette, March 11, April 22, July 15, 1779, October 30, 1783;
                        Account of Bills … paid by Thomas Dunn Esqr. by order of His Excellency General
                        Haldimand, Quebec, May 5, 1779, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,749, fol. 71; Abbott to Germain, St. Johns,
                        September 29, 1779, James Sterling to Germain, 
                            London
                        , December 24, 1779, Vol. XI, Germain Papers; Abbott to Haldimand, Fort St. John,
                        September 22, 1783, Dunn to Mathews, Quebec, October 10, 1783, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,859, fols.
                        102-103, 107; Abbott to Mathews, [Quebec], October 18, 1783, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,735, fol. 261;
                        Mathews to Abbott, Quebec, October 18, 1783, HP/BM Add. MSS. 21,721, fol. 380; List of Officers
                        of the Royal Regiment of Artillery, 6; Beckwith, ed., Letters from Canadian Archives,
                    310-12.
            
         
         
         
            A Picture Is Worth Ten Thousand Words—or Is It?
            
                    Clay W. Stuckey
                    ∗
                
            Photographs used as primary sources for historical research are often necessary adjuncts to the more
                    conventional written sources. The extraction of information from photographs can be fraught with
                    peril, however, for the adage that the camera never lies is simply not true. Aside from the
                    distortion that can occur because of the internal characteristics of the camera, there is the
                    intentional alteration of the resultant prints by the photographer or printer himself. William A.
                        Frassanitol1 and Walter F. Rowe2 have shown how certain
                    Civil War photographers engaged in practices to deceive the public and how their practices have
                    misled historians ever since. The techniques they used to achieve deception included the staging of
                    photographs that were purported to be actual scenes, the use of montages, and the simple mislabeling
                    of prints, either accidentally or intentionally.
            This essay is based on research done on the history of the West Baden Springs Hotel. This hotel was a
                    large mineral spa in West Baden, Indiana, which was in operation from 1855 to 1932. In the course of
                    research into the history of this establishment, hundreds of photographs taken during the period of
                    the early 1890s to the early 1930s have been examined. Some of these photographs were purposely
                    altered or intentionally or accidentally mislabeled, thus mitigating their usefulness as historical
                    evidence. This essay will examine examples of the various types of alterations found among these
                    photographs and captions. In the first section the alterations 
                  
                     ∗ Clay W. Stuckey, D.D.S., is a resident of 
                                Bedford
                            , Indiana. He is currently involved in research on the history of the West Baden
                            Springs Hotel.
                  
                     1 William A. Frassanito, 
                                Gettysburg
                            : A Journey in Time (
                                    New York
                                , 1976); idem, 
                                    Antietam
                                : The Photographic Legacy of America's Bloodiest Day (
                                New York
                            , 1978).
                  
                     2 Walter F. Rowe, "The Case of the Lying Photographs: The
                            Civil War Photo-graphs of George N. Barnard," Journal of Forensic
                                Sciences, XXVIII (July, 1983), 735-55.
               
                     made in some individual photographs will be examined. The
                    second section will suggest how the alteration of photographs complicates their use in determining
                    the physical appearance of the West Baden Hotel in the early twentieth century.
            The hotel's most elaborate advertising brochure is a booklet entitled "West Baden
                    Springs—The Carlsbad of America," published sometime between 1909 and 1915. The
                    booklet is forty pages long and contains 107 photographs. Figures 1 through 13 are taken either from
                    this booklet or are newly made prints of the original negatives of prints appearing in it.
            Figures 1 and 2 appear on different pages of the booklet. (The booklet's pages are not
                    numbered.) They are labeled "Exterior Natatorium" and "Power
                    House," respectively. The real powerhouse was sandwiched between the natatorium and the
                    bathhouse, and there was no vantage point from which it could be photographed. Even if other
                    buildings were removed to enable the powerhouse to be seen, it would not look like the picture in
                    Figure 2. A close examination of the two photographs, however, suggests a solution to this dilemma.
                    Figure 1 is a genuine photograph. Its only alterations are the removal of the smokestack (it appears
                    in its proper place in Figure 2) and the addition of many trees in the back-ground. Figure 2 is the
                    same photograph, but with all the surrounding buildings removed. Notice that the white posts in
                    front of the building have been removed in Figure 2. The branches of the shrubs along the front of
                    the building clearly are the same in both views and reveal that the two photographs are of the same
                    building and were probably made from the same negative. The closer these photographs are examined,
                    the more obvious it becomes that they are the same; yet, it also becomes obvious that subtle
                    differences were made by the printer to make them look different. Notice that the sign over the door
                    on the far left of Figure 1 says "Natatorium." Although illegible in Figure 1, it
                    can be seen in the original, and it has been removed in Figure 2. Why the person or persons
                    responsible for the deception in these photographs felt the need to deceive is unclear in this case.
            Figure 3 shows a portion of a panoramic Cirkut3 camera view of the town of West
                    Baden. Figure 4 is made from the original negative used to make Figure 3. That they were made from
                    the same negative can be seen in several areas, but especially note that the people walking along
                    the road on the right are identical in both views. In Figure 3 several things have been removed. The
                    Miller Beer sign and other advertising signs have been removed 
                  
                     3 A Cirkut camera was a special type of panoramic camera used for
                            taking photographs of a wider section of the horizon than could normally be photographed in
                            a single exposure. The negatives were quite large, often 10 by 48 inches, and were contact
                            printed.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 1. EXTERIOR NATATORIUM
                  
                  Courtesy Northwood Institute, Midland, 
                                Michigan
                            .
               
                    
                  FIGURE 2. POWER HOUSE
                  
                  This is actually the same photograph as in Figure 1, but it has been extensively retouched.
                  Courtesy Northwood Institute, Midland, 
                                Michigan
                            .
               
                     from the fence, and the saloon sign has been removed from the
                    building wall. Also, the snow and assorted debris have disappeared in Figure 3. Not only have things
                    disappeared, but where there had been a row of advertisements, there is now, miraculously, a row of
                    shrubs. Obviously, these alterations were made by a respect-able hotel that wanted to have a cleaner
                    picture without gaudy advertisements and distracting snow.
            A similar desire to improve the appearance of what actually existed and a desire to emphasize the
                    hotel's name appear to have been the motivations for the alterations made in photographs of
                    the hotel's golf course. Figure 5 shows part of the hotel's golf course, while
                    Figure 6 is a modern print made from the same negative as Figure 5. In Figure 5 the wording
                    "West Baden Golf Links" on the sign, which cannot be seen in Figure 6, has been
                    added, and the light pole to the right of the sign has been removed. Figure 7 is an extension of
                    Figure 5 that shows more of the golf course. Figure 8 is a modern print taken from the same negative
                    of Figure 7. In Figure 7 the path has been removed, and flags have been added to the top of the
                    hotel dome and its two adjacent towers.
            Figure 9 shows a complete page from the booklet. The Sprudel Spring Pavilion is an authentic,
                    unaltered photograph. The spring labeled Hygeia Spring is not a photograph of an actual structure
                    but is, rather, a drawing of a nonexistent structure. Figure 10 is an enlarged detail of Hygeia
                    Spring taken from Figure 9. In this enlargement it can be seen that the structure lacks the
                    crispness of an actual photograph, and that it casts no shadows. The structure pictured in Figure 10
                    was eventually built, but it was built over Apollo Spring not Hygeia Spring. Therefore, this detail
                    of Figure 9 is both spurious and mislabeled.
            Figures 11 and 12 are enlarged details of Neptune Spring and Apollo Spring, respectively, taken from
                    Figure 9. Figure 11 is an actual, unaltered photograph. Figure 12, however, is an extensively
                    altered version of the same photograph in Figure 11. While the style of the pillars, the roofs, and
                    the gingerbread roof supports of the two structures are different, the shape and location of the
                    trees and flagstaffs and the location of the columns in the two pictures are identical. Thus, of the
                    four structures pictured in Figure 9, Neptune Spring and Sprudel Spring are unaltered photographs,
                    Hygeia Spring is an artists drawing, and Apollo Spring is a spurious structure whose photograph is
                    actually an altered print of Neptune Spring.
            Figures 1 through 12 illustrate a variety of levels of photo-graphic accuracy and deception and
                    suggest the difficulties involved in using photographs in historical research. These difficulties
                    become even more evident in the following discussion of the use of photographs to help establish the
                    physical appearance of the West Baden Springs Hotel at various times in its history.
            
            
               FIGURE 3. WEST BADEN, INDIANA
               
               This photograph was made from a portion of a panoramic Cirkut camera view of the town.
               Courtesy Northwood Institute, Midland, 
                            Michigan
                        .
            
            
               FIGURE 4. WEST BADEN, INDIANA
               
               A modern print made from the same negative as Figure 3 but without any alterations.
               Courtesy of author.
            
            
            
               FIGURE 5. WEST BADEN SPRINGS HOTEL GOLF COURSE,
                            FIRST VIEW
               
               This photograph was made from a portion of a panoramic Cirkut camera view of the golf course.
               Courtesy Northwood Institute, Midland, 
                            Michigan
                        .
            
            
               FIGURE 6. WEST BADEN SPRINGS HOTEL GOLF COURSE, FIRST VIEW
               A modern print made from the same negative as Figure 5 but without any alterations.
               Courtesy of author.
            
            
            
               FIGURE 7. WEST BADEN SPRINGS HOTEL GOLF COURSE,
                            SECOND VIEW
               
               Another portion of the Cirkut camera view of the golf course.
               Courtesy Northwood Institute, Midland, 
                            Michigan
                        .
            
            
               FIGURE 8. WEST BADEN SPRINGS HOTEL GOLF COURSE,
                            SECOND VIEW
               
               A modern print made from the same negative as Figure 7 but without any alterations.
               Courtesy of author.
            
            
            The date of the construction of the structure over Apollo Spring is unknown. However, Figure 13,
                    which appeared in "West Baden Springs—The Carlsbad of America," seems
                    to provide some information about its construction date when used in conjunction with other known
                    facts. The buildings in Figure 13 are, from left to right, the Sprudel Pavilion, the Opera House,
                    the Hospital, the Apollo Spring, and the covered walk to the hotel building. Since the Opera House,
                    the Hospital, and the covered walk were all destroyed by fire in 1917, Figure 13 must have been
                    taken before that year. Also, since the dirt road in the foreground of Figure 13 was made into an
                    elaborate boulevard in 1914, the picture must have been taken before that year.
            Given the problems with other pictures in the hotel's brochure, however, one must be careful
                    in one's use of Figure 13. Three facts bring the accuracy of Figure 13 into doubt. The
                    first is that Apollo Spring has a lighter shade than the other structures in the picture, and the
                    second is that two portions of Apollo Spring's lighter roof bleed over the darker telephone
                    pole and seem to be between the pole and the viewer. It appears that Apollo Spring has been either
                    penciled or inked or air brushed into Figure 13. The third fact comes from Figure 9. In this picture
                    a drawing of Apollo Spring was added and mislabeled with the name Hygeia Spring. Figure 9 appeared
                    in a booklet that was published no later than 1915. If Apollo Spring had been built in 1915, a
                    photo-not a drawing-of it would have been added to Figure 9. Also, it is unlikely that it would have
                    been mislabeled as Hygeia Spring if it had been an existing structure.
            It is reasonable to assume that the hotel had designs for improvements to be made to the structures
                    over the various springs at the time Figure 9 was published, but that plans for where each structure
                    would go were in a state of flux. Thus, the drawing in Figure 9 is identical to the later-built
                    Apollo Spring because the design of the structure had been made, but it is mislabeled because plans
                    for which structure would go where had not been finalized.
            Conclusive evidence that Apollo Spring was added to Figure 13 is found in Figures 14 through 17.
                    Figure 14 shows old Spring No. 3 before it was renamed Apollo Spring and a structure was built over
                    it. In the background of this picture is the Sprudel Pavilion, the Opera House, and the covered
                    walkway that connected them. Figure 15 shows the area behind the hotel after the fire of 1917. After
                    this fire the ground level of this area was raised a few feet and new structures were added to form
                    what was called the Formal Gardens. Figure 16 shows the Sprudel Pavilion soon after the fire. The
                    destroyed buildings have been cleared away, but the ground around the Sprudel Pavilion has not yet
                    been raised. After the ground level was raised, the remaining structures were built to make the
                    Sunken Gardens shown in Figure 15. One of the structures built at that time was
                    the one over Apollo Spring. This cirߝ 
                    
                  FIGURE 9. FOUR OF THE HOTEL'S STRUCTURES AS THEY APPEARED ON A PAGE OF THE BOOKLET
                                "WEST BADEN SPRINGS—THE CARLSBAD OF AMERICA"
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 10. HYGEIA SPRING
                  
                  Enlargement of a detail from Figure 9.
                  Courtesy Northwood Institute, Midland, 
                                Michigan
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 11. NEPTUNE SPRING
                  
                  Enlargement of a detail from Figure 9.
                  Courtesy Northwood Institute, Midland, 
                                Michigan
                            .
               
                    
                  FIGURE 12. APOLLO SPRING
                  
                  Enlargement of a detail from Figure 9.
                  Courtesy Northwood Institute, Midland, 
                                Michigan
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 13. WEST BADEN SPRINGS HOTEL GROUNDS
                  
                  Courtesy Northwood Institute, Midland, 
                                Michigan
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 14. SPRING No. 3 The spring, without its wooden
                            superstructure, is in the foreground. In the back-ground is the Sprudel Pavilion and the
                            covered walkway that connected it to the Opera House.
               
                    
                  FIGURE 15. WEST BADEN SPRINGS HOTEL GROUNDS
                  
                  A later photograph, taken from a different angle, of the same area pictured in Figure 13.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 16. SPRUDEL PAVILION AND SPRING No. 3
                  This photograph was taken after the debris from the fire was removed. The ground level around
                            the Sprudel Pavilion had not yet been raised at the time this photo-graph was taken. Spring
                            No. 3 can be faintly seen through the guardrail on the far right side of the bridge.
                            Courtesy Mrs. Betty Tucker, 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana.
               
                    
                    
                  FIGURE 17. SPRING No. 3
                  Enlargement of a detail from Figure 16. Spring No. 3 is visible through the guardrail on the
                            right side of the bridge.
               
                     cular structure of stone columns was located above old Spring
                    No. 3, which can be seen without any structure above it in Figure 17. Figure 17 is an enlarged
                    detail of Figure 16, which was taken after the 1917 fire. Thus, the Apollo Spring structure was
                    definitely not built until years after Figure 13, which shows the structure, was taken and
                    published.
            In the modern era of television and movies viewers have be-come accustomed to trick photography and
                    special effects. The knowledge that photographers shortly after the turn of the century had such a
                    remarkable ability to alter photographs and did on occasion alter them is important to the modern
                    historian attempting to draw conclusions from such pictures.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Religion in Indiana: A Guide to Historical Resources. By L. C. Rudolph and
                    Judith E. Endelman. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1986. Pp. xv, 232. Index. $22.50.)
            L. C. Rudolph and Judith E. Endelman's goal for their project was to produce "a
                    guide to primary and secondary source materials for the study of religion in Indiana" (p.
                    vii). This book has been long awaited by librarians and researchers, who will conclude that the
                    authors have achieved their goal.
            The book is divided into three main sections. The first, "Published Works," covers
                    2,866 books, journal articles, theses, and dissertations; it is arranged alphabetically by author,
                    or by title for those works with no author. The second section, "Repositories,"
                    lists the unpublished primary materials held by 109 institutions around the country. The third
                    section is comprised of "Congregational Histories," which are arranged by county,
                    then by place. Additional features are a succinct "User's Guide" at the
                    beginning that de-scribes the sections and their use in more detail; a list of denominational
                    families; and an index that provides access by subject, personal name, institutional name, and
                    denominational name. While the index does not list primary authors, who can be found in the
                    alphabetical list of published works, it does list secondary authors.
            As with almost any reference book, there will be criticism for what this one does not do. For quick
                    reference, it might have been better for the first section to be arranged by denomination. Some will
                    say that the book should list all the institutions at which a given work can be found rather than
                    just the institution at which the authors examined the copy they listed. This was not intended to be
                    a union catalogue, however, and there are other library tools which can be used to locate additional
                    copies. There are also bound to be appropriate resources which are not listed. This is inevitable
                    given the constraints of time and geography under which the authors worked. They acknowledge, for
                    example, the omission of valuable sources like newspaper articles and county histories. In addition,
                    the responsibility for the completeness of the finished work does not rest entirely with the
                    authors. They had to depend on many correspondents to provide them with information for inclusion,
                    so the quality of the final work rests partially on the quality 
                    both of the existing collections and the reporting about those collections by those who administer
                    them.
            This book can be recommended to any institution or individual interested in the history of religion
                    in Indiana. It should also be studied by anyone considering a similar project in another state.
            Leigh Darbee, Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               The Countryside in the Age of Capitalist Transformation: Essays in the Social History
                        of Rural America. Edited by Steven Hahn and Jonathan Prude. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1985. Pp. vi, 355. Notes, maps, tables, appendix, sources, illustrations,
                    charts, index. Clothbound, $36.00; paperbound, $9.95.)
            Practitioners of the "new social history" have explored a number of subjects that
                    are implicitly "rural," but this collection explicitly focuses on American
                    "rural history." Its eleven essays set out themes in the "new rural
                    history," a field in which scholars combine the insights of earlier historians with
                    "techniques and themes found in various branches of contemporary social history"
                    (p. 6). Though they acknowledge that to peg the meaning of "rural" precisely is
                    problematic, the editors define a rural community as one with at most five thousand people.
            The questions a historian could ask about rural history are manifold, but despite the variety of
                    possibilities inherent in the subject, Steven Hahn and Jonathan Prude have assembled a remarkably
                    coherent set of essays. With few exceptions, each contribution deals with a fundamental theme, the
                    "capitalist transformation" in rural North, South, and West. For example, Gary
                    Kulik's essay examines conflict over fishing rights between back-country 
                        Rhode Island
                     farmers (defending corporate, public rights) and capitalist furnace and millowners
                    (asserting individual property rights). Steven Hahn chronicles the "unmaking" of
                    the up-country 
                        Georgia
                     yeomanry in the wake of the Civil War. Robert McMath detects precapitalist cultural
                    values at the root of the 
                        Texas
                     Farmers' Alliance organization.
            The collective thrust of these essays is that rural people and communities became enmeshed over time
                    in the web of capitalist market relationships; the timing varied, but the fundamental contours of
                    the change were similar everywhere: individualistic, profitmaximizing, competititve relations
                    replaced reciprocal, face-to-face, subsistence patterns.
            The essays differ in their interpretation of capitalism's impact, and thereby raise one of
                    the most interesting issues in the "new rural history." Several of the authors
                    find rural people vigorously resisting the capitalist transformation; capitalism is portrayed as  penetrating an unwilling countryside. But David
                    Jaffee's Yankee portrait makers and their clientele enthusiastically embraced the culture
                    of consumerism; the impression here is of rural entrepreneurs generating capitalist development from
                    within the country-side. Other authors see a complex mix of motivations in operation. Thus the
                    debate over rural Americans' role in and reaction to capitalism is still far from resolved.
                    This collection points to the importance of considering chronology, class, race, ethnicity, and
                    geography in determining who among rural Americans embraced capitalism, and who resisted. Together
                    with such works as Charles Martin's Hollybush, which traces the impact of
                    the cash nexus through folk housing, and Joan Jensen's Loosening the
                    Bonds, about farm women, The Countryside in the Age of Capitalist
                    Transformation, with its essays of uniformly high quality, will establish the "new
                    rural history" as a stimulating and provocative field of study.
            Sally McMurry, 
                  
                            Pennsylvania State
                         University, University Park
            
         
         
            
               Rebel Raider: The Life of General John Hunt Morgan. By James A. Ramage. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1986. Pp. xi, 306. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliographical note, index.
                    $25.00.)
            John Hunt Morgan has finally received a thorough and judicious biography. An exemplar of the
                    Confederate guerrilla chief, he was the object of enormous adulation, romantic excess, fear, and
                    bitter hatred by Confederates and Unionists. His life ended in September, 1864, in an attempt to
                    escape from Federal soldiers who had surprised his command.
            James A. Ramage has uncovered all the significant sources on his subject that probably exist. He has
                    a flair for capturing the human interest of Morgan's life and the events and personalities
                    surrounding him. Nowhere is this better illustrated than in Ramage's description of
                    Morgan's raid through southern Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                    , and his imprisonment in and escape from the 
                        Ohio State
                     Penitentiary. The other great asset of this book is its thoughtful analysis of
                    Morgan's decline, beginning with his second marriage in December, 1862. Ramage blames it on
                    Morgan's emotional attachment to his new wife. Earlier he had gained psychic comfort in the
                    cat-and-mouse games of irregular warfare. Experiencing a satisfying home life, Morgan devoted less
                    care to his command, neglecting details which had earlier made him successful. The book also offers
                    insight into the chasm that existed between the public's perception of a military hero and
                    the reality of his career.
            Ramage seems to admire Morgan despite his faults. It is a compliment to Ramage's fidelity to
                    truth that Morgan comes across as a more reprehensible character than the biographer wants him 
                    
                  C. C. HASKINS'S SKETCH OF THE JULY 10, 1863, LOOTING OF SALEM, INDIANA, BY GENERAL JOHN HUNT MORGAN'S TROOPS
                  
                  Taken from Frank Leslie's Illustrated Newspaper, August 8, 1863. Courtesy Indiana
                            Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                to be. Morgan and his command were responsible for some of the more insensitive atrocities
                    in the West. Ramage does not go deeply enough into his character to question Morgan's odd
                    penchant for disguising himself as a Union officer and spying on the enemy; he sees this as evidence
                    of a gambler's personality and tries to tie it to the concept of southern honor, a
                    connection that is not tenable. The bushwhacking and cold-blooded murder Morgan not only practiced
                    but apparently enjoyed had nothing to do with honor or chivalry and had less significance for the
                    war effort than Ramage claims. Morgan was an incredibly selfish, unsavory person; the depths of
                    pillage to which his command descended in 1864 and his own de-termination to desert his men rather
                    than be captured again illustrate his true character. Even if Ramage does not seem to be as deeply
                    aware of all this as is justified by his evidence, he has produced what so few historians have, an
                    interesting book.
            Earl J. Hess 
                        Athens
                    , University of 
                            Georgia
                        ,
            
         
         
         
            
               Settlement Patterns in 
                            Missouri
                        : A Study of Population Origins With a Wall Map. By Russel L. Gerlach. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 1986. Pp. viii, 88. Illustrations, notes, figures, tables, appendixes,
                    bibliography, index, wall map. $22.00.)
            When census canvassers began requesting inhabitants' state or country of birth in 1850, they
                    provided a major boon to American demographers. From 1850 on the census has gathered essential data
                    about this country's settlement history and cultural characteristics. Researchers have
                    examined population origins in all or parts of many states, including those in the Old Northwest.
                    With the publication of this wide-ranging book, 
                        Missouri
                     joins the list. Russel L. Gerlach, a historical geographer, presents 
                        Missouri
                    's nativity origins and settlement history through text, tables, and maps. His
                    sources are those used by geographers, historians, and other social scientists: previous studies,
                    the census, church records, local  histories and biographies,
                    interviews, correspondence, and field observation.
            The result of his labor is an extensive account of 
                        Missouri
                    's population origins, perhaps the most thorough treatment any state has yet
                    received. Its entire settlement history is considered, from the Indians and earliest white and black
                    arrivals through the 1980 census. American and foreign migrants, whose convergence on the national
                    crossroads of 
                        Missouri
                     was aided by its position at the junction of the Ohio,
                        Mississippi, and Missouri river valleys, chose
                    settlement locations according to economic potential and accessibility. Chapters describe population
                    sources and settlement pat-terns in periods to 1980 and place 
                        Missouri
                    's experience into its larger national context. An appendix lists by county the
                    leading nativity or ethnic groups in 1860 and 1980 and the location of unique settlements. A
                    "wall map" on a separate sheet is essentially a distillation of the book, locating
                    and identifying ethnic enclaves both large (Germans, French) and small (Swedes, Bohemians) among the
                    old-stock Americans (predominantly from 
                  Kentucky,
                            Tennessee
               , and 
                        Virginia
                    ). Hoosiers will be especially interested in the significance of Indiana natives among
                    early Missourians (fifth largest population source in 1860 and fourth in 1890) and the growth of
                    Amish and Mennonite communities since 1945.
            Only minor problems mar the book. The lightest tone on some choropleth maps disappeared in
                    reproduction. The wall map is not dated, although according to the sources and text it displays
                    mostly nineteenth-century conditions. The book may not delve deeply enough into the details of 
                        Missouri
                    's past to please some readers, but its purpose is to "provide a
                    geographic data base" for future research by discovering the "where" of
                    sources and settlements rather than the "why" of differences among groups (p. v).
                    Before the why can be thoroughly determined the where must be revealed, and this Gerlach does
                    excellently.
            Gregory S. Rose, 
                  
                            Ohio State
                         University at 
                            Marion
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Workers On the Edge: Work, Leisure, and Politics in Industrializing 
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1788–1890. By Steven J. Ross (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1985. Pp. xx, 406. Illustrations, tables, appendix, notes, selected
                    bibliography, index. $35.00.)
            For most of the nineteenth century 
                        Cincinnati
                     was a major industrial city with many successful firms and a large labor force. In
                    recent years, however, it has attracted far less scholarly attention than a host of New 
                        England
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     villages. Steven J. Ross partially remedies this omission with an extended description
                    of the evolution of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     labor force. Much of his account has a familiar ring. For example, he distinguishes
                    between an "Age of the Artisan" (1788–1843), when handicraft production
                         was the rule, and an "Age of
                    Manufacturing" (1843–1873), when the factory emerged. His third category, an
                    "Age of Modern Industry" (1873–1890), when large factories succeeded
                    the small mid-century plants, is more novel but questionable. Other features of the story are also
                    familiar. 
                        Cincinnati
                     workers (as well as other Cincinnatians) subscribed to a "republican
                    ideology"; workers more often saw themselves as Germans or Protestants or Odd Fellows than
                    as wage earners; and labor unions grew in good times and declined in depression periods. Indeed,
                    until the 1880s, there was little to distinguish the experiences of 
                        Cincinnati
                     workers from those of the workers that John R. Commons et al.
                    described in their pioneering, four-volume History of Labor in the 
                            United States
                        
                (1918–1935) and that various other authors have recounted in the
                    interim. In the mid-1880s, a time of general labor upheaval, 
                        Cincinnati
                     workers became more aggressive and united, winning many strikes and nearly capturing
                    control of the city government. Ross devotes approximately a quarter of his book to these episodes,
                    and it is those final chapters which are his principal contribution.
            Was there more to the 
                        Cincinnati
                     story than Ross has uncovered? Possibly. Though Ross's documentation is
                    impressive, he has not found the kinds of information, such as payrolls and other internal business
                    records, that permit a precise view of changes in employment and working conditions. Too often he is
                    forced to infer relationships (e.g., an increase in average factory size led to greater insecurity
                    and dissatisfaction). More important, the records Ross uses reflect the perspectives of artisans and
                    factory craftsmen, a large though hardly representative group of 
                        Cincinnati
                     workers. Through most of the nineteenth century 
                        Cincinnati
                    's major employer was the meat-packing and meat by-product industries, which
                    employed few skilled workers. Ross devotes five pages to the meat-packers and their workers and
                    disregards the soap and candlemakers, though a recent paper by Steve Gordon has demonstrated that
                    abundant records are available. In view of the ethnocultural divisions that Ross documents, there is
                    good reason to doubt that the skilled workers' leaders and publicists spoke for all 
                        Cincinnati
                     industrial workers. Finally, Ross is preoccupied with the workers' failure to
                    put their jobs ahead of other ties and allegiances and makes much of their united efforts between
                    1884 and 1887. But which pattern was the rule and which was the exception? Ross's data
                    suggest that the events of the mid-1880s were the aberration and that his efforts to find a common
                    class consciousness might have been devoted to more productive issues.
            Though Ross has brought together much useful information about 
                        Cincinnati
                     workers in the nineteenth century, the city's potential for economic and labor
                    historians remains largely unrealized.
            Daniel Nelson, University of Akron, Akron, 
                            Ohio
                        
               
            
         
         
         
            
               American Log Buildings: An Old World Heritage. By Terry G. Jordan. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1985. Pp. x, 193. Illustrations, maps, figures, tables, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $26.00.)
            Probably the universal symbol of the American frontier is the log building. Not only have log
                    buildings in general, and log cabins in particular, become the physical representation of westward
                    expansion, they have also assumed political and social significance in American culture. While the
                    log structure is an American symbol, it is clearly of European origin. Terry G. Jordan's
                    purpose in pre-paring this book is to document the Old World roots of American log construction.
            After reviewing some of the recent major work on the subject, 
                        Jordan
                     defines the parameters of his investigation. The study is limited to one type of folk
                    architecture and one colonial culture known as the Midland culture area. "From a presumed
                    hearth area in the 
                        Delaware
                     Valley, this style spread with the yeoman farmer frontier and eventually dominated a
                    large wedge of territory broadening to the west from its Pennsylvanian apex, extending as far as the
                    Great Plains" (p. 7). This type of construction appears in most of the eastern half of the 
                        United States
                     and includes most of the Midwest.
            
               
                        Jordan
                     thoroughly examines the characteristics of log construction of Midland American log
                    culture. Among these characteristics are timber shaping and placement, corner timbering, gable and
                    roof designs, floor plans of dwellings, log barn construction, and other log structures and fencing.
                    Photographs, illustrations, and maps are effectively used in this section and throughout the book to
                    assist the reader in understanding technical aspects of log construction.
            Three different theses of the Old World origins of Midland American log architecture have been
                    proposed, and each are analyzed by Jordan. "The potential agents of diffusion include (1)
                    northern Europeans, mainly Swedes and Finns from central 
                        Sweden
                    , who colonized the 
                        Delaware
                     Valley beginning in the 1630s; (2) 
                        German
                    -speaking Moravians and Schwenkfelders, who came to 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and several other colonies from the Czech-Polish-East 
                        German
                     borderland in the middle of the eighteenth century; and (3) 
                        German
                    -speaking Lutherans, Swiss Reformed, and Mennonites, who emigrated from Alpine and
                    Alemannic regions of southern central Europe beginning about 1710" (p. 7). After carefully
                    analyzing the three potential areas of origin, 
                        Jordan
                     concludes "that the greatest shaping influence on Midland American log
                    construction was exerted by settlers from the Fenno-Scandian area" (p. 147).
            
            
               REPRODUCTION OF THE LINCOLN FAMILY CABIN IN SPENCER COUNTY, INDIANA
               
               Courtesy 
                            Lincoln
                         Boyhood National Memorial, 
                            Lincoln City
                        , Indiana.
            
            Perhaps the most interesting aspect of 
                        Jordan
                    's work is the method used to reach his conclusions. While the book contains
                    extensive notes and a complete bibliography, 
                        Jordan
                    's primary approach in preparing the book appears to have been investigation
                    through field research. He spent five seasons in the field in Europe and thirteen domestic
                    excursions over a ten-year period examining log structures and origin theories. The result of 
                        Jordan
                    's inquiry is a valuable work for understanding both the major characteristics
                    and the heritage of that basic American symbol, the log building.
            William E. Bartelt, 
                  
                            Lincoln
                         Boyhood National Memorial, 
                            Lincoln City
                        , Ind.
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Cleveland
                        : A Tradition of Reform. Edited by David D. Van Tassel and John J. Grabowski.
                            (
                  Kent, Ohio: Kent
                State University Press,
                    1986. Pp. viii, 218. Illustrations, notes, index. $27.50.)
            David D. Van Tassel and John J. Grabowski argue in the preface that "cities have
                    personalities" (p. vii) and that this book is a 
                    "search for the historical personality of 
                        Cleveland
                    " (p. vii). What is special about 
                        Cleveland
                     and what has emerged from its history with "remarkable consistency,"
                    according to the editors, is the "primacy of reform in all periods of the city's
                    past" (p. vii). The editors define reform as an effort to correct social and political
                    faults, and they contend that "some reforms may be perceived as good, some may not, and
                    others are simply incomprehensible"(p. 3). To that end eight reform movements extending
                    from the nineteenth century into the twentieth century are covered, including temperance,
                    abolitionism, civil rights, the women's movement, educational reform, Protestant
                    benevolences, social and settlement reform, and political reform. The foremost factor that
                    controlled the selection of the topics was their "chronological position in the
                    city's history" (p. 3).
            As the essays show, the distinctive character of 
                        Cleveland
                    's reform was shaped by its business needs and its New 
                        England
                     communal heritage, which were central to its "communal psyche" (p.
                    3). Reformers often steered a conservative, middle course, as James Richardson's essay on
                    "Political Reform" and Mayor Tom L. Johnson demonstrates. In general, the essays
                    support the editors' assertion of a middling, moderate reform course. When the middle
                    ground was forsaken for militant and radical politics, reform ceased to work in 
                        Cleveland
                    .
            In an "Epilogue" the editors bring the story down through the last two decades and
                    puzzle why reform has atrophied or otherwise changed into less recognizable forms. The 1960s
                    delivered to Cleve-land more than its share of hard knocks. Public housing, which had been the
                    reformers' pride in the 1930s, had degenerated into crime-ridden, minighettoes. Along with
                    this degeneration came riots, police shootouts with black militants, and a rising tide of violence
                    and disorder that even black Mayor Carl Stokes could not stay. In addition, the Cuyahoga
                        River caught fire, the city defaulted on its debt payment, and an urban populist
                    mayor, Dennis Kucinich, parodying Tom L. Johnson, brought administrative chaos and nonstop turmoil. 
                        Cleveland
                     by the late 1970s was no longer thought of as the "best governed
                    city" in the nation, as it had been in the early 1900s but instead was referred to by its
                    detractors as the "mistake on the lake" (p. 11). Yet, through all of the travail
                    of the 1960s and 1970s, the editors perceive a remnant of 
                        Cleveland
                    's reform tradition still functioning at the board level of community
                    organizations.
            This is an interesting book and contains many essays that students of urban politics and history will
                    find worth reading.
            Melvin G. Holli, University of 
                            Illinois
                         at 
                            Chicago
                        
               
            
         
         
         
            
               Grasping Things: Folk Material Culture and Mass Society in America. By Simon J.
                    Bronner. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1986. Pp. xv, 247. Illustrations, map, table, notes, index. $24.00.)
            Interest in American material culture has grown rapidly in recent years, as is evidenced by the
                    number of new publications and courses on the subject. Studies of the material manifestations of
                    past cultures have evolved from simple descriptions of physical objects to analyses of the weave of
                    objects in the daily lives of individuals and communities and considerations of the belief
                    systems—values, attitudes, ideas—of the individual who made or used them.
                    Consequently, it has become easier to examine and understand material objects within their broader
                    historical and cultural contexts.
            
               Grasping Things, the latest work from Simon J. Bronner, transcends typical
                    discussions of material objects in American life. It seeks to define the basic tenets of
                    "folk culture" and "mass society" and to describe the tension
                    between the two spheres. In so doing, Bronner focuses on the "souls" of and human
                    encounters with objects, which he defines as "extensions of ourselves and as mediators of
                    social relations" (p. xii). He argues that the inherent meaning of any object ultimately
                    reflects the characteristics of the cultural environment that created it and, therefore, of its
                    makers and users.
            Bronner divides his discussion according to the principal segments of material life behavior and
                    illustrates his thesis with rich examples taken from his fieldwork in rural and urban America.
                    "Entering Things" describes how shelters and the use of space reflect the cultural
                    influences, values, ideas, and social priorities of their builders and residents. "Making
                    Things" elucidates the motivations behind physical expressions of human creativity, ranging
                    from hand-carved tombstones to genre paintings. Bronner also distinguishes between production in
                    folk cultures, characterized by handwork, variation, and practicality, and that of mass society,
                    represented by automation, uniformity, and faddism. "Consuming Things" follows the
                    development of human consumption from an expression of community fellowship and utility to a display
                    of "wealth and status through the wasteful extravagant purchase and display of
                    goods" (p. 160).
            Bronner's study concentrates upon conflict between spirit, family, and community in folk
                    cultures and materialism, technology, and progress in mass society. He also examines how modern
                    society has trivialized physical expressions of folk cultures and subjugated them to the
                    materialistic values of their present owners rather than emphasize their historical-cultural
                    contexts and illuminate the creativity of their original makers.
            
               Grasping Things is a provocative, thoughtful study of pluralistic human behavior
                    and values within American society. While  it seeks to
                    "describe things in action [and] to analyze them as parts of cultural scenes where actors
                    can be identified" (p. xi), the book also calls on Americans to examine past and present
                    values and to grasp hold of those which provide personal, communal, and social meaning and guidance
                    for the future.
            David G. Vanderstel, Conner 
                     Prairie, Noblesville
                  ,
                    Ind.
            
         
         
            
               The Transplanted: A History of Immigrants in Urban America. By John Bodnar. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1985. Pp. xxi, 294. Maps, illustrations, appendix, notes,
                    selected bibliography, index. Clothbound, $27.50; paperbound, $8.95.)
            
               The Transplanted is an impressive effort to bring together the extensive research
                    that American historians have conducted since the 1960s on European immigration to the 
                        United States
                    . John Bodnar demonstrates an impressive knowledge of the secondary literature, both on
                    the old world background and the immigrant experience in America. He examines a wide range of
                    topics, including the family, the adjustment process, religion and other immigrant institutions, the
                    impact of the newcomers on unionism and radicalism, the rise of an immigrant middle class, attitudes
                    toward education, and immigrants in urban politics. This book has much to commend it. However, one
                    might conclude from reading The Transplanted that American immigration history stopped when the flow
                    of European newcomers ended because of World War I and restrictive legislation in the 1920s.
            Even before the 1920s America experienced immigration from Asia and from elsewhere in the Western
                    Hemisphere. Bodnar ignores these sources. Even more significant is his silence concerning the fact
                    that the 
                        United States
                     is at present experiencing another wave of immigration, one as momentous as the earlier
                    movement from Europe. One result of this current immigration is that by 1983 
                        Los Angeles
                     could be described as the new Ellis Island. Since 1968, when the 1965 immigration law
                    went into effect, the character of American immigration has undergone dramatic changes. Prior to
                    that date Europe was the principal (although not the only) source of immigration; since then the
                    predominant sources are the Third World nations of Central and South America, the Caribbean, and
                    Asia.
            From 1971 to 1979, 3,962,675 immigrants entered the 
                        United States
                    , 39.2 percent from Latin America, 34.1 percent from Asia, and only 18.3 percent from
                    Europe. In addition to legal immigration estimates of undocumented aliens entering the country range
                    from one-half million to one million annually. The post-1968 immigration represents a watershed in
                    the ethnic composition of the 
                        United States
                    . Congress has wrestled for years with the problem of illegal immigration, particularly
                    from south of the border. Right  now would appear to be a time
                    when immigration historians could offer guidance or at least perspective on a current problem of
                    major importance. The Transplanted reflects the fact that we historians fix our
                    eyes firmly on the past, glorying in the accuracy of our hind-sight and avoiding involvement in the
                    problems of the present.
            Bodnar has done an effective job in dealing with the problems that he has identified and therefore
                    accomplishes what he set out to do. The Transplanted is not, however, a
                    comprehensive history of immigration to the 
                        United States
                    ; the title is misleading. It is a history of European immigration up to the 1920s, and
                    as such, it is effective and thorough.
            Humbert S. Nelli, University of 
                     Kentucky, Lexington
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               Plains Woman: The Diary of Martha Farnsworth, 1882–1922. Edited by
                    Marlene Springer and Haskell Springer. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1986. Pp. xxv, 322. Illustrations, notes, map, index.
                    $27.50.)
            If Martha Farnsworth was typical of the women living on the 
                        Kansas
                     prairie in the latter part of the nineteenth century, then there were a lot of very
                    spirited women in mid-America. The fact that she kept such an informative and literate diary for
                    forty years, however, makes Farnsworth atypical.
            Farnsworth was born in 
                        Iowa
                    , but moved to 
                        Kansas
                     at age five. She began her diary in 1882 at age fifteen and continued it until two
                    years before her death in 1924. We follow her through her disastrous first marriage, the death of
                    her only child at age five months, and the death of her abusive, consumptive husband. Blessed with a
                    firm religious background that gave her the inner strength to cope with her afflictions, Martha
                    entered a second marriage with Fred Farnsworth that lasted twentynine years. During these happy
                    years she was active in women's clubs, politics, and the long struggle for women's
                    suffrage. Never able to have more children, Martha acted as a surrogate mother for years, and
                    conducted a Sunday School class for boys that was especially rewarding for both her and her husband.
            The diary provides a chronology of events, including the coming of the telephone, the electric light,
                    indoor plumbing, the talking motion picture, the airplane, and the autombile, along with the 
                        San Francisco
                     earthquake and her association with many political and social figures of the day.
            Editors Marlene Springer and Haskell Springer are to be commended for their selection of entries from
                    the four thousand pages of Martha Farnsworth's original sixteen handwritten volumes. Only
                    when events were repetitious or fragmentary do they give a brief summary. The Springers'
                    introduction to the diary is a superb explanatory essay that complements Martha's writing.
                    At the end of  the diary is an epilogue explaining briefly the
                    last two years of Martha's life, which, as the editors so poignantly say, "leaves
                    one with a regrettable sense of incompleteness." Although that is true, this reader felt a
                    great sense of pride in sharing the delightful firstperson account of the life of one remarkable
                    woman.
            Shirley S. McCord, Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Those Days: An American Album. By Richard Critchfield. (
                        Garden City
                    , N.Y.: Anchor Press/Doubleday, 1986. Pp. x, 419. Illustrations. $19.95.)
            This extremely well-written book describes the history of the author's family in 
                        Iowa
                     and 
                        North Dakota
                     from 1880 to 1940. It is a captivating blend of historical documents and a
                    novelist's vision. The dust jacket blurbs by Morley Safer—"a jewel of a
                    book"—and William Bundy—"a marvelous family
                    epic"—seem incongruous due to their careers in television and foreign affairs,
                    but this reviewer must repeat their high praise. Few words can express the powerful feelings that
                    spring forth from the flat pages of print. The joys and sorrow, the tears and laughter, all these
                    emotions entangle the reader in a story that begins with a wedding in 1913.
            The author, a successful journalist and novelist, decided to compose his family history despite
                    sibling assurances that the family was not significant. Rather, Critchfield wrote, "it was
                    their ordinariness that made them matter" (p. 413). This is not to say that two generations
                    of country and small-town doctors represent the typical Iowan or North Dakotan. Instead, the author
                    depicts his family as an organic structure that grew and withered depending on the prompts and
                    pressures; weddings, children, dreams, tragedies, success, failure, rapid changes in knowledge and
                    technology, and the strengths and weaknesses of saints and sinners. While their occupations may have
                    made the main characters out of the ordinary, their experiences encompassed the ordinary.
            The story is a great success, and the author's technique of interspersing historical
                    sources—diaries, letters, photographs, and interviews (taped and
                    stenographic)—with "you are there" dialogues and vivid descriptions
                    make this a powerful book. The reader rejoices with the characters when they celebrate and cry as
                    the author details his father's unsuccessful battle with alcohol and heartbreaking affair
                    with a young girl. Life was not easy in a small 
                        North Dakota
                     town during the Depression, and for this family the results were painful but
                    remembered.
            The Indiana connections are few; a long 
                        Quaker
                     tradition, the move from Indiana to 
                        Iowa
                     in 1858, an automobile accident in 
                        Muncie
                     in 1935, and the popular book Alice of Old 
                            Vincennes
                        . It is possible, however, to make many comparisons to the rural way of life in
                    Indiana during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries.  The descriptions of life in a bawdy river town on the 
                        Mississippi
                     and the culture clash of farmers and machinery offer insights for any student of the
                    Upper Midwest. Great technological and educational changes were taking place all across America, and
                    while farm life in 
                        North Dakota
                    —"God had leveled the whole country out with a rolling pin"
                    (p. 103)—is not the same as farm life in Indiana, there are similarities that strike
                    Hoosier chords.
            The book is not perfect. Editorial decisions separated fine and proper photographs from the
                    applicable text—in one case by more than two hundred pages. The subtitle, An
                        American Album, does not add to the reader's understanding. The dust jacket
                    emphasizes that this is the story of an "ordinary" family struggling with a
                    rapidly changing world. More accurately, the hero—a doctor—and the
                    heroine—his wife—were the offspring of ordinary, educated, rural doctors. The
                    ordinary farmer and merchant would have had different viewpoints and experiences as they coped with
                    a new way of life even though they shared a similar fate in the Depression. Also, the explanation of
                    the author's techniques and motivations do not appear until the epilogue and afterword. An
                    earlier placement would have prevented an occasional wondering if "an interview with
                    Anna" and "a letter to Jim," were citations or creations of the author.
            Such a well-written and documented book must be recommended to a wide variety of readers and
                    institutions. It is a marvelous account of one family's life in the breadbasket of our
                    nation. The local scene—Alfalfa Day, farm accidents, blizzards, grasshoppers, a
                    syphilitic young man—while dominant, is connected to state and national events and tied
                    into the popular culture of the 1880–1940 era as a way of keeping the reader in touch
                    with more familiar guideposts—holidays, popular music, war, fashion, and fads. Historians
                    will be intrigued by the author's methods, and every reader will be educated and
                    entertained.
            F. Gerald Handfield, Jr., Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Cities of the 
                            Prairie
                         Revisited: The Closing of the Metropolitan Frontier. By Daniel J. Elazar et
                    al. (
                        Lincoln
                    : University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1986. Pp. 288. Tables, maps, figures, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $25.00.)
            In 1970 Daniel J. Elazar's Cities of the 
                            Prairie
                        : The Metropolitan Frontier and American Politics presented the findings of a
                    comparative study of medium-sized communities in ten metropolitan areas in the nation's
                    heartland. Elazar examined local politics during the era 1946 to 1961 in cities ranging from
                            
                  Champaign-Urbana, Illinois
               , on the east
                    to Pueblo, 
                        Colorado
                    , on the west and from 
                  Duluth, Minnesota
               , on the north to Belleville, 
                        Illinois
                    , on the  south. In Cities of the 
                            Prairie
                         Revisited, Elazar and a coterie of disciples have returned to the previously
                    examined communities to survey the changing course of politics during the second half of the postwar
                    generation from 1962 to 1977. Whereas most studies of local politics present a snapshot of a
                    community in a single time period, Elazar boasts that Cities of the 
                            Prairie
                         Revisited and his earlier volume together offer a portrait over time, thus
                    "creating the basis for a more systematic and substantial longitudinal comparison than has
                    ever been undertaken in the study of urban politics" (p. 8).
            The new book consists of two sections. In the first 160 pages Elazar presents an overview, describing
                    the changing rhythms of local politics in the midwestern communities. Then in the last 90 pages his
                    four coauthors each contribute a case study that rein-forces Elazar's arguments. The four
                    subjects of the case studies are Pueblo, 
                  Champaign-Urbana, Decatur, Illinois
               , and Joliet, 
                        Illinois
                    .
            A repeated theme in both the overview and the case studies is the adaptation of local politics to
                    increased federal intervention and to the new stream of federal money flowing from the Great Society
                    programs of the late 1960s. During the 1950s the federal presence by comparison was minor. Elazar
                    and his colleagues discover that the heartland communities adapted to the new federal initiatives
                    without sacrificing their local political culture. For example, Maren Allan Stein finds that the
                    political character of 
                        Decatur
                     did not change markedly in the 1960s and 1970s despite the proliferation of federal
                    programs. For better or worse, 
                        Decatur
                     remained distinctively 
                        Decatur
                    .
            On the whole, Elazar's overview and the four case studies re-veal much that will be of
                    interest to political scientists and urban scholars in general. Even though Elazar and his
                    colleagues surveyed no Indiana communities, their approach to the study of medium-sized cities and
                    their conclusions should prove stimulating to anyone concerned with the Hoosier cities that are not
                    too distant in mileage or culture from 
                  Champaign-Urbana
                or Joliet.
            Jon C. Teaford, Purdue University, West 
                            Lafayette
                        , Ind.
            
         
         
            
               The Twentieth-Century American City: Problem, Promise, and Reality. By Jon C.
                    Teaford. (
                        Baltimore
                    , Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1986. Pp. x, 177. Tables, bibliographical essay,
                    index. Clothbound, $20.00; paperbound, $8.95.)
            This book, a volume in the new American Movement series, has special value for college courses on
                    modern urban America. Jon C. Teaford, the author of perceptive studies in the history of municipal
                    government, here applies his talents to a wider theme, the general growth and fragmentation of the
                    modern metropolitan  city. Beginning with the hopes of
                    Progressive idealists for a unified urban community, Teaford expertly depicts the unfolding
                    realities of metropolitan development into the 1980s. His picture is clear: except for the years of
                    the Great Depression and of World War II, the motif is the flight of urbanized Americans from cities
                    to suburbs, an irreversible impulse facilitated by highways and auto-mobiles and motivated by the
                    urge to escape from ethnic and racial diversity. This is the dominant reality that has consistently
                    defeated even the best efforts of local and national administrations to prevent the deterioration of
                    the central cities. The typical result is an increasingly decentralized metropolis of discrete
                    suburban fragments in which the central city itself is becoming simply another suburb.
            Teaford has incorporated an impressive variety of interesting and significant matters into his
                    expanding metroscape. He introduces us to such people as the moral reformer Arthur B. Farwell and
                    the mobster Al Capone, as well as to such contrasting situations as the planned suburb of Radburn
                    and the unplanned ghetto of Pruitt-Igoe. In his penultimate chapter, "An Age of
                    ‘Urban Crisis,’ 1964–1979," he provides us with able
                    summations of the urban policies devised by both the Johnson and Nixon administrations and with a
                    succinct analysis of the fiscal crises that hamstrung 
                        New York
                     and other cities in the 1970s. The shortness of this book, of course, precludes some
                    things that someone will think important-for instance, the "New Towns" planning of
                    the 1960s and the process of gentrification in the 1970s. Also, although most readers will
                    appreciate the author's emphasis on the dominating influence of social and ethnic
                    separatism, some will regret his lapses into cynicism (e.g., Al Capone as a "true
                    molder" of the city) and his seeming indifference to the positive side of metropolitan
                    development. In its overall excellence, though, this book has value for all students of modern urban
                    America. Do I plan to use it in my own urban history course? Yes, most definitely.
            Edward K. Spann, Indiana State University,
                            Terre Haute
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               American Workers, American Unions, 1920–1985. By Robert H. Zieger. (
                        Baltimore
                    , Md.: Johns Hopkins University Press, 1986. Pp. xii, 233. Bibliographical essay, index.
                    Clothbound, $25.00; paperbound, $9.95.)
            By 1985, suggests Stanley I. Kutler in his editor's foreword, "the question, in
                    short, was whether the unions had become irrelevant." Robert H. Zieger's
                    sympathetic history of American unions, without answering this question directly, leaves open the
                    possibility that they had.
            
            The narrative begins in the 1920s, when American workers found themselves disunited and disadvantaged
                    in an era of apparent prosperity, and concludes in the mid-1980s, when the same observations could
                    be made. In between, Zieger charts the rapid rise and the gradual decline of organized labor as a
                    major social force.
            The Depression set the stage for a rebirth of unions, and their entry into politics. Rapid growth in
                    the 1930s led to intense labor-management strife which neither existing union structures (i.e., the
                    American Federation of Labor (AFL)) nor the early New Deal (i.e., the National Recovery
                    Administration) could contain. The Wagner Act achieved industrial peace and ordained both the
                    successes and the limitations of American unionism by turning unions into managers of rank-and-file
                    discontents, employers into guarantors of union membership rolls, and the National Labor Relations
                    Board into the red-tape-laden referee. Hardly was this new arrangement and the Congress of
                    Industrial Organizations (CIO) in place before World War II broke out. During the war the deal cut
                    in the Wagner Act was ratified by labor's No-Strike Pledge and by management's
                    maintenance of union membership. Unlike their World War I ancestors, the new and the newly strong
                    unions of 1945 survived the conversion to peacetime. The Taft-Hartley Act limited long-term union
                    security more than it did short-term union successes. By winning for their members a larger piece of
                    the larger American pie with hard-fought strikes and savvy political maneuvering, the AFL and CIO
                    moved into the 1950s as the stable representatives of increasingly affluent workers. But by the
                    1960s the decline of unions both in percentage of the work force they represented and in their
                    ability to adapt to (let alone lead) social change was apparent. Buffeted by the issues of 
                        Vietnam
                     and civil rights, union leaders found themselves attacked by militants as part of the
                    establishment, deserted by their membership for Republican candidates or George Wallace, and all the
                    while manhandled by managements who had learned to flout the National Labor Relations Act with
                    impunity. In 1968 came the moment of truth: Hubert Humphrey was defeated. But still worse lay in
                    store: the Reagan era of massive unemployment, give-backs, and union busting. Zieger offers
                    counterarguments to those who see unions as responsible for the deindustrialization of America, but
                    can find no John L. Lewis on labor's horizon to marshal the forces anew.
            Zieger's account, using a rich variety of earlier works, is generally well woven, concise,
                    and adept. He gives a friendly hearing to mainline union leadership, shorter shrift to critics right
                    and left. He places particular emphasis on the history of the United Auto-mobile Workers of America.
                    He makes occasional mention of Indiana's position as a conservative state which still
                    reflects national developments on the labor scene. Particularly lucid is his treatment  of complex labor laws, and particularly sympathetic is his grasp of the
                    problems of female and black unionists.
            Little will be found in these pages that is new, and fellow scholars may be frustrated by his
                    substitution of bibliographical essays for footnotes. His treatment of the years from 1968 to 1985
                    in a brief epilogue is a disappointment. Yet, Zieger has compiled an altogether useful account of
                    what for now appears to have been the golden era of labor in the 
                        United States
                    .
            Patrick J. McGeever, Indiana University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Reform in America: The Continuing Frontier. By Robert H. Walker. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1985. Pp. ix, 270. Illustrations, tables, notes, appendix, bibliographical note,
                    index. $25.00.)
            "Broadacre City is everywhere and nowhere" (p. 145). When Robert H. Walker quoted
                    Frank Lloyd Wright's description of his new town utopia, he unwittingly characterized his
                    own book. After a lifetime of studying reform in America, Walker has written a
                    "constructive synthesis" of a "continuing frontier" he sees
                    everywhere and in every age. His book, more an extended essay than a freshly researched monograph,
                    invites historians to view the "reform spirit" in American history as continuous
                    rather than periodized. In re-defining the language and patterns of reform he seeks to show that
                    "directed social change constitutes a vital and undervalued part of this nation's
                    meaning" (pp. vii-ix).
            Walker's ambitious synthesis of American reform is organized around three
                    "modes." "Politico-economic reform," focused mainly on the
                    politics of money from Jackson's veto to the Federal Reserve Act, also deals with poverty,
                    labor reform, and suffrage. His second mode, "Social Justice for All," discusses
                    the extension of political and economic participation to those "special groups"
                    (blacks and women) who have been "outside the mainstream" but also explores civil
                    liberties, temperance, and the asylum movement. Mode III covers utopian "planners and
                    dreamers," ranging from antebellum to modern communes, literary utopias to science fiction,
                    and builders of new towns to designers of world government.
            To structure all this material into 210 pages, Walker has in-vented a new quasi-quantitative
                    "taxonomy," which he calls "analytical social history." Within
                    each of the "modes" are four "logical subheadings." The terms
                    are new but hardly the categories. He discusses reform in terms of "the principal
                    actors" (seen as associations and governments rather than people, who are largely missing
                    from the book), the "arguments and assumptions" of reformers, and the
                    "forms" and "dynamics" of reform, which include both a  "five-stage cycle" and a "two-stage
                    sequence" (summarized in a useful chart on p. 184).
            Such an immense effort in such a thin book cannot help but to fail. Walker's preference for
                    modes rather than chronology is ultimately ahistorical. Temperance is included in Mode II because
                    the "victims of alcohol … can be considered a special group" (p. 109).
                    He compares the American Anti-Slavery Society with the NAACP, "which followed in its
                    footsteps virtually every step of the way" (p. 73). Uncle Tom's
                    Cabin is compared to John Steinbeck's Travels with Charley, and
                    Theodore Dwight Weld to Daniel Patrick Moynihan (pp. 75-77)!
            These alternatingly obvious and stretched points are all the more distressing because Walker
                    celebrates "the rising spirit" of the early Reagan years when poverty, he asserts,
                    is being reduced, when new groups are being integrated into the mainstream, and when
                    "social change is alive and well" (p. 196). The underlying point of his book, that
                    "all eras are reform eras" (p. 180), is a particularly inappropriate claim to make
                    for the 1980s.
            Walker's work is flawed but challenging. Any book that is at once everywhere and nowhere
                    inevitably contains innovative in-sights that jolt one's comfortable categorization of
                    time-tested truths. Moreover, his synthesis is interspersed with six "encounters,"
                    little human vignettes intended to illustrate his themes. Some do and some do not, but all are
                    sensitive and well written, especially a delightful account of the failed attempt of a group of
                    exceptional local women to get credit for auditing courses at all-male 
                        Wabash
                     College in the 1960s. The six encounters are a highlight, and one wishes that Walker
                    had lessened his analysis and filled the book with more of these stories. He tells them well.
            Peter J. Frederick, 
                  
                            Wabash
                         College,
                            Crawfordsville
                        , Ind.
            
         
         
            
               The State of Afro-American History: Past, Present, and Future. Edited by Darlene
                    Clark Hine, with an introduction by Thomas C. Holt. (
                  Baton
                        Rouge: Louisiana State
               
                    University Press, 1986. Pp. xiv, 301. Notes, index. $27.50.)
            This valuable new volume grew out of a conference held at Purdue University in 1983 to assess the
                    current state of the study and teaching of Afro-American history. It was jointly sponsored by the
                    American Historical Association, the Lilly Endowment, and the National Endowment for the Humanities.
                    The fourteen papers included in this book, some accompanied by critical and expansive commentary,
                    address issues related to the slave experience, to the impact of emancipation, to the urbanization
                    of blacks, to the evolution of professional scholarship in Afro-American history, and to  the relationship of that scholarship and that history to a more
                    complete understanding and presentation of American history.
            
               The State of Afro-American History: Past, Present, and Future is one of two
                    important new books published during 1986 that seek to examine Afro-American history as an
                    increasingly important field of study during the twentieth century. The other is Black
                        History and the Historical Profession: 1915–1980 by August Meier and the late
                    Elliot Rudwick. These two volumes should be read together. The former is more topical and less
                    systematic, and the latter focuses more upon the historians who have worked in the field than upon
                    the scholarship itself. Both of these books address the internal and external issues pertinent to
                    the evolution of the study of Afro-American history. They demonstrate clearly, as John Hope Franklin
                    explained in his keynote address at the Purdue conference, that this subject has always been charged
                    with political and social implications. Furthermore, these works provide powerful evidence that the
                    writing and interpreting of this subject, as well as the Afro-American experience, itself, have a
                    very significant history.
            The essays from the Purdue conference vary considerably in their depth and focus. Perhaps the most
                    useful ones for historians are Armstead Robinson's "The Difference Freedom Made:
                    The Emancipation of Afro-Americans" and Kenneth Kusmer's revision of a previously
                    published piece, "The Black Urban Experience in American History." The analyses in
                    these articles are tight and their bibliographies are extensive. Conversely, the contributions of
                    Leslie Owens and Nathan Huggins are more suggestive and free-wheeling. Huggins is especially
                    convincing in his demonstration of the importance of seriously and completely "Integrating
                    Afro-American History Into American History." The collective scholarship of these essays
                    not only testifies to the state of Afro-American history but also makes clear the
                    ongoing need to maintain the scholarly search for a new and more openly inclusive and synthetic American history.
            
            
               The State of Afro-American History, for all its generally careful scholarship and
                    editing, also reveals (if more implicitly than explicitly) the presence of two subjective issues,
                    internal to the field, that have been and still are a part of the "state of Afro-American
                    history." They also happen to be issues given considerable attention in Black
                        History and the Historical Profession. First, the political implications and emotional
                    nature of race in the 
                        United States
                     have made it impossible or undesirable for historians to avoid drawing conclusions and
                    making evaluations regarding the basic "goodness," "fairness,"
                    or "progress" of American society as it has defined the opportunities open to
                    black Americans. The sense of either optimism or pessimism expressed in these evaluations  including those under review) has been and continues to be a
                    part of the writing, preserving, and presenting of Afro-American history.
            The second of the subjective issues is the internal one of ownership, which, while less volatile and
                    open than it was during the late 1960s and early 1970s, still may be found within the historical
                    profession. The State of Afro-American History never addresses the controversy
                    head on, but the insider (black historians)-outsider (white historians) question can be found
                    beneath the surface in some of its essays. The fact that such issues continue to exist is not
                    inherently "bad"; their presence, however, does demonstrate something fundamental
                    and, at the same time, less than fully mature about the "state of Afro-American
                    history" in the 1980s. The Purdue conference and the volume that it produced were and are
                    timely and important.
            Lester C. Lamon, Indiana University at 
                            South Bend
                        
               
            
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               A Century of Achievement: Black Hoosiers in the Indiana General Assembly,
                        1881–1986. By Alan F. January and Justin E. Walsh. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Select Committee on the Centennial History of the General Assembly, in cooperation
                    with the Indiana Historical Bureau, 1986. Pp. x, 58. Illustrations, note on sources. Pamphlet,
                    $2.00.) This pamphlet is a very good spin-off from the large project to write a history
                    of the General Assembly. Alan F. January's text provides an interesting account of the
                    struggles of black legislators to remove racial restrictions from the state constitution in the late
                    nineteenth century and to further the cause of civil rights in the twentieth century. Especially
                    evocative of past conditions is the refusal of downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                     restaurants and the Claypool Hotel to serve black legislators before the
                    1950s—an example of discrimination that added another handicap to their legislative work.
                    In addition to the narrative the publication includes a biographical sketch for each of the forty
                    black men and women who have served in the General Assembly. James H. Madison, Indiana
                        University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Indiana Factbook: 1985. Edited by Morton J. Marcus. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana Business Research Center, Indiana University School of Business, 1985. Pp.
                    viii, 421. Charts, tables, maps, notes, sources. Paperbound, $20.00.) The editor of this
                    large volume claims that "never before has so much information concerning Indiana been
                    published in a single volume in such a comprehensive fashion" (p. iii). He is correct. The
                    data range from population to housing to social welfare to agriculture, first for the entire state
                    with comparisons to the nation and then for each county. A final section provides a statistical
                    profile of each county. The 1990 census will necessitate a new version of this reference source, but
                    historians will always want this volume on their shelves. This work may be ordered, with an
                    additional two dollars for postage, from Indiana Factbook: 1985, IBRC, School of Business, Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana 47405. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Steel Shavings. Edited by James B. Lane. Volume XIII. (Gary: Indiana University
                    Northwest, 1987. Pp. 56. Periodical, $3.00.) This 
                    volume of Steel Shavings focuses on "Latinos in the Calumet
                    Region." Mexicans arrived in the Region in the 1920s to work in the steel mills and
                    constituted thereafter an important part of the special mix of peoples and cultures in northwest
                    Indiana. The oral interviews and essays in this collection—the work of students at
                    Indiana University Northwest—provide a good illustration of and documentation for the
                    dynamics of acculturation and the simultaneous retention of ethnic culture. The volume may be
                    ordered for $3.00 from the Department of History, Indiana University Northwest, 3400 
                        Broadway
                    , Gary, Indiana 46408. James H. Madison, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Hoosiers: The Fabulous Basketball Life of Indiana. By Phillip M. Hoose. (
                        New York
                    : Vintage Books, 1986. Pp. 292. Illustrations. Paperbound, $7.95.) A Season on the Brink: A Year with Bob Knight and the Indiana Hoosiers. By John
                    Feinstein. (
                        New York
                    : Macmillan Publishing Company, 1986. Pp. xv, 311. Illustrations. $16.95.)
                    When asked what makes Indiana distinctive most Hoosiers and outsiders will answer basketball. The
                    movie Hoosiers and these two books will add further strength to this identity.
                    Phillip M. Hoose's account of high school basketball includes chapters on the teams and
                    players of the 1950s and 1960s—Milan and Bobby Plump, Crispus Attucks and Oscar Robinson,
                    Lebanon and the Mount family. More recent subjects include Larry Bird, Steve Alford, and Judi 
                        Warren
                    . Hoose captures the mentality of high school basketball in Anderson, at Meadowood Park,
                    and in small rural communities, but not at Attucks. Historians will wish that he had devoted more
                    attention to the early twentieth century and to the origins and evolution of Indiana's
                    identification with the sport. John Feinstein's book presents a close-up look at Indiana
                    University's team during the 1985–1986 season, focusing attention on the
                    controversial coach. The book became a national bestseller during the winter of 1987, adding another
                    point to the state's commanding lead as the heartland of hoops. The time will come when a
                    serious historian will provide a scholarly analysis of the sport set in full contexts of time and
                    place. James H. Madison, Indiana University, Blooming-ton.
            
            
               The House of a Thousand Candles. By Meredith Nicholson. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1986. Pp. 382. Illustrations. Clothbound, $15.00;
                    paperbound, $7.95.) Freckles. By Gene Stratton-Porter. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1986. Pp. 352. Illustration. Clothbound, $15.00;
                    paperbound, $7.95.) With these two additions to the Library of Indiana Classics, Indiana
                    University Press continues its record of reprinting some of the best of Indiana's golden
                    age of literature. Meredith Nicholson's mystery 
                    thriller stands as testimony to the talent of this writer for all seasons, a man who could weave
                    words with grace and intellect. Gene Stratton-Porter was not as versatile, but perhaps more widely
                    read. Her first book, Freckles, was acclaimed by several generations of young
                    readers and remains on enticing story of character and nature. James H. Madison,
                        Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Affairs of Party: The Political Culture of Northern Democrats in the Mid-Nineteenth
                        Century. By Jean H. Baker. (
                        Ithaca
                    , N.Y.: Cornell University Press, 1983. Pp. 368. Notes, illustrations, bibliographical
                    essay, index. Clothbound, $39.50; paperbound, $14.95.) In this book Jean H.
                    Baker describes the various ways that men became Democrats in the midnineteenth century, then the
                    dominant ideas and beliefs held by Democrats, and finally the ways in which Democratic attitudes and
                    beliefs were expressed and reinforced by the political behavior and rhetoric of party members and
                    their leaders. For Baker Democratic political culture was a variation on common American beliefs and
                    values. Thus, while the party inculcated in its members beliefs distinctive from those of other
                    Americans, these differences were not great, and the party was able to serve as a nationalizing
                    force that tied its members to mainstream American attitudes, or at least close variations of them.
            In the first section of the book Baker suggests reasons why people became Democrats by analyzing a
                    heavily Democratic 
                        New Jersey county
                     and seven individual Democrats from various parts of the North, including William
                    Steele Holman of 
                        Aurora
                    , Indiana. She next describes how the public schools inculcated common national values
                    in all its students, whether sons of Democrats or of members of other parties. In the second section
                    of the book Baker outlines the dominant beliefs and attitudes of midnineteenth-century Democrats.
                    These included racism, a variety of republicanism, intense patriotism and Americanism, and a
                    Burkean-like conservative naturalism. She finds one or more of these beliefs and attitudes expressed
                    in such widely varied sources as the writings and speeches of Stephen Douglas, minstrel shows, and
                    various other sources. In the third section of the book Baker discusses the behavior and policies of
                    the Democrats. Her discussion focuses on the 1960s and especially the rituals—parades,
                    rallies, ballot casting—of the elections of 1864 and 1868 and the issues of loyalty
                    during the Civil War and of policy toward the South after the war.
            The cogency of Baker's arguments varies widely from section to section. The part of the book
                    concerning how men became Democrats and the part examining the views of the Bayard family of 
                        Delaware
                     appear somewhat irrelevant. The chapter on education and Americanization is marred by
                    faulty reasoning and the fact that the schooling described could have affected only a very small  proportion of the Democratic voters of the mid-1960s. However,
                    the parts of the book dealing with Douglas's conservative naturalism, the minstrel show and
                    racism, and the rituals involved in political campaigns and voting are remarkably informative and
                    perspicacious. In short, this book is remarkably uneven, but it best parts deserve the attention of
                    anyone seriously interested in midnineteenth-century American politics and political culture. Thomas E. Rodgers, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Audubon Reader: The Best Writings of John James Audubon. Edited by Scott Russell
                    Sanders. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1986. Pp. 245. Sources, bibliography. Clothbound,
                    $29.95; paperbound, $9.95.) The Bicentennial of John James
                        Audubon. By Alton A. Lindsey et al. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1985. Pp. xiii, 175. Illustrations, index.
                    $17.59.) John James Audubon was as interesting as his famous paintings. He was an
                    impulsive man driven to understand the encounter of society with nature and the contrast of
                    civilization and wilderness that was part of the westward movement of early nineteenth-century
                    America. His life in the Ohio River valley and elsewhere was one of struggle
                    and achievement and makes for captivating reading. Audubon's own writings, as gathered by
                    Scott Russell Sanders, are powerfully evocative of time and place, as in Audubon's account
                    of his flatboat journey from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        New Orleans
                     in 1820. Alton A. Lindsey's essays and those of five other contributors
                    present multiple perspectives on this complex man. James H. Madison, Indiana
                        University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
         
         
            Pathways to the Old Northwest
            The bicentennial anniversary of the signing of the Northwest Ordinance on July 13, 1787, will be
                    observed during a summer conference on the Franklin College campus, Franklin, Indiana. Historians,
                    folklorists, and scholars in the arts will give presentations July 10 and 11, 1987, during
                    "Pathways to the Old Northwest." The conference is being sponsored by Franklin
                    College in cooperation with the Indiana Historical Society and with support from the Indiana
                    Committee for the Humanities. Conference planners hope to reach teachers, students, amateur
                    historians, and others interested in the Old Northwest legacy. Program participants will include
                    Paul Finkelman, William J. Eccles, Reginald Horsman, and Malcolm J. Rohrbough. Registration for the
                    conference will begin in early February. For conference information persons may contact Dr. Lloyd A.
                    Hunter at Franklin College, Franklin, Indiana 46131 or (317) 736–8441, Extension 157.
         
         
            Book Reviewers
            Readers interested in having their names added to the list of potential book reviewers for the Indiana Magazine of History are invited to inform the editor. The prospective
                    reviewer should enclose a 4 x 6 card indicating name, address, and specific area and topics of
                    competence and interest. Additional information that might be provided, if relevant, includes degree
                    granting institution, current academic or professional affiliation, and publications.
         
         
            The Indiana Magazine of History on Cassettes
            The Indiana Magazine of History is one of several Indiana history publications
                    available on cassettes. This project, begun in 1977, is funded by the Indiana Historical Society and
                    conducted in cooperation with the Division for the Blind and Physically Handicapped of the Indiana
                    State Library. Additional information is available from the director, Carol Horrell, Indiana
                    Historical Society, 315 West Ohio, Indianapolis, IN 46202.
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
