
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 60, Issue 1, pages 1-117. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:60+issue:1+year:1964&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Albert J. Beveridge and the First National Child Labor Bill
            
                    John Braeman
                    ∗
                
            By 1906, the winds of change were blowing strongly in the 
                        United States
                    . That acute observer of the national scene, Theodore Roosevelt, watched with growing
                    alarm the multiplying signs of unrest. "The dull, purblind folly of the very rich men;
                    their greed and arrogance … and the corruption in business and politics," the
                    chief executive complained to Secretary of War William Howard Taft in March, 1906, "have
                    tended to produce a very unhealthy condition of excitement and irritation in the popular
                        mind…."1 Even Congress responded to the new temper of
                    the country. The first session of the Fifty-ninth Congress witnessed the adoption of three
                    epoch-making pieces of legislation: the Hepburn Act, the Pure Food and Drug Law, and the Meat
                    Inspection Act. These laws, a perceptive newspaperman observed, represented "a radical
                    departure from previous governmental methods. In each case there is a marked tendency toward the
                    centralization of power in the 
                        United States
                     and a corresponding decrease in the old time sovereignty of the states, or of the
                        individual."2
            
            On Capitol Hill one of the most astute students of public sentiment was the senator from Indiana,
                    Albert J. Beveridge.3
                    
                  
                     ∗ John Braeman is assistant professor of history at
                            Brooklyn College, 
                        Brooklyn, New York
                     .
                  
                     1 Theodore Roosevelt to William Howard Taft, March 15, 1906, Elting E.
                            Morison et al. (eds.), The Letters of Theodore Roosevelt
                            (8 vols., 
                        Cambridge, Mass.
                     , 1951-1954), V, 183.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, June 24, 1906.
                  
                     3 The biographical material about Beveridge in this article is based
                            upon the author's research. For a documented account, see John Braeman,
                            "Albert J. neveridge: From Imperialism to Progressivism" (Ph.D.
                            dissertation, Dept. of History, The Johns Hopkins University, 1960).
               
                     The turmoil of the 1890's—the bloody strikes,
                    the lengthening bread lines, the free-silver heresy—had left an indelible impress upon
                    his mind. "This is the hour," he had lamented to 
                        Chicago
                    's Union League Club on Washington's Birthday, 1895, "of
                    opinions unsettled, of vagaries abounding, of lawlessness infecting the very air we
                        breathe."4 The election of 1896, Beveridge thought, marked a
                    turning point in the nation's history. Should the silver-tainted Democracy win, he feared
                    there would be no safety for property, no security for person. "Elect Bryan," he
                    warned his fellow countrymen, "and reap the harvest of destruction, drink the wine of
                    dissolution and tell history that we are another one of liberty's failures, another 
                        Greece
                    , another 
                        Rome
                    , another beautiful dream dissolved, another fond experiment of freedom
                        failed."5
            
            The immediate threat was repulsed. But Beveridge saw grave dangers ahead for the republic. Safety lay
                    in looking outward—in joining the race for empire underway around the globe. Overseas
                    expansion was indispensable to revive prosperity. Without new markets abroad for the surplus of
                    factory and farm, he warned, America faced a grim future of ever worsening depression culminating in
                    revolutionary upheaval. No less vital was the psychological fillip the country would receive from a
                    boldly expansive policy. War was "the divine instrument of progress" that would
                    break down the walls that had grown between classes and restore the discipline wanted for national
                        greatness.6 The Spanish-American War more than fulfilled these hopes. With
                    the outbreak of hostilities came that national solidarity for which Beveridge longed. "It
                    is an hour," he rejoiced, "when men who thought they hated one another at the
                    ballot-box will find that they love one another on the battle-field. It is an hour when a master
                    event has found and struck the key-note of harmony between labor and capital."7
            
            
               
                  4 "George Washington, the Patriot" Speech, [February 22,
                        1895], scrapbook, Albert J. Beveridge Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress).
               
                  5 "Reply to Altgeld" Speech, 
                            Chicago
                        
                        Record, October 30, 1896.
               
                  6 "Memorial Day Oration," May 30, 1892, Beveridge
                        Papers. See also MS campaign speech, 1894, ibid.; "George Washington,
                        the Patriot" Speech, [February 22, 1895], scrapbook, ibid.;
                        "Abraham Lincoln" Speech, 
                            Chicago
                        
                        Tribune, February 13, 1897.
               
                  7 "Grant, the Practical" Speech, April 27, 1898, Albert
                        J. Beveridge, The Meaning of the Times and Other Speeches (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1908), 37.
            
            
            The American people had gone to war supposedly to free 
                        Cuba
                    . But a few saw beyond the immediate event. "The first gun of our war for
                    civilization," Beveridge told a cheering audience two days after the formal declaration of
                    war, "will be also the morning gun of the new day in the Republic's imperial
                    career." The Hoosier politician pictured for his listeners a string of dependencies
                    "flying our flag" stretching from the Caribbean halfway around the globe to the
                        Philippines.8 In the campaign that fall, he fanned the imperialist spirit.
                    There must be no retreat from the Philippines, he cried. "We can not retreat from any soil
                    where 
                        Providence
                     has unfurled our banner; it is ours to save that soil for liberty and
                        civilization."9 The nation, in his opinion, could not escape its
                    destiny; nor could Albert J. Beveridge. "I would," he confessed, "rather
                    take part in organizing our colonial system than to do anything else on this earth." Not
                    the man "to idly sit and witness the procession of events," he ran for the 
                        United States
                     Senate;10 and his triumph against heavy odds marked him as a
                    political tactician of the first rank and made him overnight a national figure.11
            
            In his first term in the Senate (1899-1905), Beveridge devoted his major energies to wrestling with
                    the problems of empire—the 
                  Philippines, Puerto Rico
               , the isthmian canal, and Far Eastern policy. At home, his
                    overriding concern was to safeguard his position against his party rivals within Indiana led by
                    fellow Senator Charles W. Fairbanks. During the McKinley years, Fairbanks had had the inside track
                    with the White House. But with McKinley's death, the balance shifted as Beveridge jumped on
                    the Roosevelt bandwagon. So ably did he play the political game that he forced his factional rivals
                    to abandon further opposition to his reelection. No issues were at stake; no antagonistic
                    philosophies divided the factions. For Beveridge stood, in his own eyes, as "the most
                    earnest of those who resist demagogical attacks upon property and property
                        rights…."12
            
            
               
                  8
                        Ibid., 42-46.
               
                  9 "The March of the Flag" Speech, September 16, 1898,
                        Beveridge, Meaning of the Times, 57.
               
                  10 Beveridge to Charles G. Dawes, May 10, 1898, Beveridge Papers.
               
                  11 See John Braeman, "The Rise of Albert J. Beveridge to the 
                            United States
                         Senate," Indiana Magazine of History, LIII (December,
                        1967), 355-82.
               
                  12 Beveridge to Paul Dana, September 14, 1903, Beveridge Papers.
            
            
            Beveridge's record during his first term in the Senate—his championship of the
                    protective tariff, his support of the ship subsidy bill, his opposition to the stringent antitrust
                    provisions of the Littlefield bill—marked him as a staunch defender of the time-hallowed
                    planks of the Grand Old Party. Even more reassuring was his repeated warning lest the American
                    people be misled by demagogues preaching class hatred. "The great truth of the
                    hour," he told a bankers' gathering, "is this—the real
                    interest of every American citizen is the true interest of every other American citizen, the
                    ultimate good of any class is the final good of all."13 The ruling
                    quadrumvirate of the Senate—Nelson W. Aldrich of 
                        Rhode Island
                    , Orville H. Platt of 
                        Connecticut
                    , William B. Allison of 
                        Iowa
                    , and John C. Spooner of 
                        Wisconsin
                    —saw in the new Hoosier senator a promising find. Beveridge looked to Allison
                    as an admired guide; and his relationship with Orville Platt was almost that of father and son. In a
                    signal honor for so junior a member, Beveridge was named along with Aldrich, Allison, Spooner, Mark
                    A. Hanna of 
                        Ohio
                    , and Eugene Hale of 
                        Maine
                     to the powerful Republican Steering Committee.
            But no political leader can afford to lose touch with public sentiment, and Beveridge prided himself
                    on his instinctive knowledge of the aspirations of the man in the street. Despite the sweeping
                    Republican triumph in the 1904 elections, he saw grounds for disquiet. The election represented no
                    popular mandate for the GOP as a party. "The country went Rooseveltian rather than
                    Republican," he wrote the President.14 The lobbying activities of 
                        Arizona
                     mining and railroad companies in the fight over statehood for the Southwest had
                    shattered Beveridge's illusions about business statesmanship. "I don't
                    want anybody ever again to talk to me about the high moral tone of wealthy men when their pocketbook
                    is touched," he complained to the Review of Reviews editor, Albert
                        Shaw.15 Nor was his experience in the statehood fight an isolated one.
                    "The whole network of graft and corruption," he exclaimed in disgust to Gifford
                    Pinchot, "is 
                  
                     13
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, February 7, 1900.
                  
                     14 Beveridge to Theodore Roosevelt, November 10, 1904, Theodore
                            Roosevelt Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress).
                  
                     15 Beveridge to Albert Shaw, December 17, 1905, Beveridge
                        Papers.
               
                     a network—and when one thread is touched the whole
                    fiber responds."16
            
            By 1906, the Middle Border throbbed with insurgency. Robert M. LaFollette in 
                        Wisconsin
                    , Albert B. Cumins in 
                        Iowa
                    , William R. Stubbs in 
                        Kansas
                    , Coe Crawford in South Dakota, Joseph W. Folk in 
                        Missouri
                    , and John A. Johnson in 
                        Minnesota
                     were challenging standpat dominance in their states. The signs were unmistakable.
                    "I have been carefully studying the present popular unrest and interviewing numbers of
                    people about it," Beveridge confided to 
                        Chicago
                     newspaper publisher John C. Shaffer early in 1906: 
                        I am coming to the conclusion that it is not a passing whim, but a great and natural movement
                            such as occurs in this country, as our early history shows, once about every forty years. It
                            is not like the granger episode or like the Debs episode. The former of these affected only
                            the farmers; the latter only the "workingmen." The present unrest,
                            however, is quite as vigorous among the intellectuals, college men, university people, etc.,
                            as it is among the common people.17
                  
                    
            
            Most ominous was the increase in the Socialist vote in 1904. Again the specter of class warfare, even
                    social upheaval, loomed before the republic. His own impulses deeply conservative, Beveridge
                    understood—unlike so many of his fellow Republicans—that unbending
                    standpattism was self-defeating. There were abuses demanding reform; there were grievances wanting
                    relief. Unless the Republican party faced these new problems with the same boldness as its founders
                    had faced the slavery issue, Beveridge feared the end would be disastrous. "We
                    must," he warned the Indiana Republican State Convention in the spring of 1906, 
                        turn to these new social and economic problems which have to do with the daily lives and
                            happiness of human beings and which press for answer; questions that involve the
                            righteousness of American business, a juster distribution of wealth by preventing dishonest
                            accumulation of gain; questions that look to the physical, mental, moral upbuilding of all
                            the workers in factory and on farm throughout the entire Republic; to the public control of
                            great public businesses….
                    
            
            The popular temper was strikingly revealed when the first session of the Fifty-ninth Congress met in
                    December, 
                  
                     16 Beveridge to Gifford Pinchot, November 15, 1905, ibid.
                  
                  
                     17 Beveridge to John Shaffer, March 27, 1906, ibid.
                  
                  
                     18 "Progressive Liberty" Speech, April 11, 1906,
                            Beveridge, Meaning of the Times, 263-64.
               
                     1905. Before its adjournment the following July, Congress had
                    passed the Hepburn Railroad Rate Act, the Pure Food and Drug Act, and the Meat Inspection Law. In
                    all three fights, Beveridge was on the progressive side. His support of President Theodore Roosevelt
                    in the bitter struggle over the railroad law made him the target of a bitter attack on the floor of
                    the Senate by Senator Nelson W. Aldrich.19 Beveridge was instrumental in
                    bringing the Pure Food and Drug Law to a vote in the Senate.20 He was the
                    sponsor of the Meat Inspection Act in the upper chamber.21 Important as these
                    laws were, he thought the principle involved even more important. These laws, he explained to a GOP
                    rally that fall, "are nothing but the working out of a new principle which our complex
                    industrial and social order has developed…." The principle, he explained,
                    "is this: When any business becomes so great that it affects the welfare of all the people
                    it must be regulated by the Goverment of all the people."22
            
            That summer, while vacationing in 
                        New England
                    , the Hoosier senator continued to test public sentiment through wide-ranging
                    correspondence and personal conversation. Even normally Republican businessmen agreed, he found,
                    about the impossibility of standing pat. But he saw with dismay how many of his fellow Republican
                    leaders continued blind to the popular temper. When "Czar" Joseph Cannon opened
                    his campaign in 
                        Illinois
                     with his famous "standpat" speech, Beveridge lamented that the
                    speaker had "utterly missed the meaning of the times."23
                    "The truth about it," he wrote Albert Shaw, "is the country is moving on
                    so much faster than the politicians that most of the latter are like a bunch of belated travellers
                    who have come to catch a train and stand 
                  
                     19 Nathaniel W. Stephenson, Nelson W. Aldrich, A Leader
                                in American Politics (
                                New York
                            , 1930), 266.
                  
                     20 Oscar E. Anderson, The Health of a Nation: Harvey W.
                                Wiley and the Fight for Pure Food (
                                Chicago
                            , 1958), 176.
                  
                     21 A full account of the passage of the Meat Inspection Act is given
                            in John Braeman, "The Square Deal in Action: A Case Study in the Growth of the
                            'National Police Power,'" John Braeman, Robert H. Bremner, and
                            Everett Walters (eds.), Change and Continuity in Twentieth-Centurg
                            America, Vol. I of Modern America (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     ,
                            1964).
                  
                     22 "Duties of the Present, Not Memories of the Past"
                            Speech, November 3, 1906, Beveridge, Meaning of the Times, 295-96.
                  
                     23 Beveridge to Theodore Roosevelt, August 21, 1906, Roosevelt
                        Papers.
               
                     on a platform waiting for it when as a matter of fact the train
                    has passed on a long while ago.24
            
            That was not for Beveridge. On the stump that fall, he called for an inheritance tax, tariff
                    revision, the direct primary, stricter federal supervision of giant corporations, and a national
                    child labor law.25 The applause that greeted his words—especially the
                    "remarkable enthusiasm" at his call for a national child labor
                    law—convinced him that he had struck a popular chord.26 The election
                    returns gave further evidence of how the wind was blowing. The Democrats recorded marked gains. Even
                    more alarming was the sharp increase in Socialist activity. "You have no idea", he
                    wrote publisher Frank Munsey, "how profound, intense and permanent the feeling among the
                    American people is that this great reform movement shall go on."27
                    There would be no swinging back of the pendulum. "The truth about it is", he told
                    Roosevelt's private secretary, "that this general movement of reform has only
                        begun."28
            
            One of the streams flowing into the ground swell of reform was what Arthur S. Link has called
                    "the social justice movement." In the 1890's appeared the professional
                    social worker and with the professionalization of social work came, as Robert H. Bremner has
                    brilliantly shown, a new approach to poverty. This was "a factual generation."
                    Discarding the traditional shibboleths, the pioneers of "scientific philanthropy"
                    went out and gathered the facts about poverty, its extent and its causes. In light of these facts,
                    the older conception of poverty as a penalty for individual faults was no longer tenable. Poverty
                    was a social phenomenon—the result of circumstances beyond the control of the
                        individual.29 It 
                  
                     24 Beveridge to Albert Shaw, August 19, 1906, Beveridge Papers.
                  
                     25
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, October 21, November 4, 1906; "Business and Government"
                            Speech, September 22, 1906, "The Era of Political Independence" Speech,
                            October 8, 1906, "Duties of the Present, Not Memories of the Past" Speech,
                            November 3, 1906, Beveridge, Meaning of the Times, 268-307.
                  
                     26 Beveridge to Albert Shaw, October 16, 1906, Beveridge Papers. See
                            also Beveridge to Theodore Roosevelt, October 21, 1906, ibid.; Beveridge
                            to William Loeb, Jr., November 12, 1906, ibid.
                  
                  
                     27 Beveridge to Frank Munsey, November 10, 1906, ibid.
                  
                  
                     28 Beveridge to William Loeb, Jr., November 9, 1906, ibid.
                  
                  
                     29 Arthur S. Link, The American Epoch: A History of the 
                                    United States
                                 since the 1890's (
                                New York
                            , 1960), 69-72; Robert H. Bremner, From the Depths: The Discovery
                                of Poverty in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1966), 46-85, 123-63, 201-03.
               
                     was due, Robert Hunter, a leading settlement-house worker,
                    explained in his ground-breaking book entitled Poverty, "to certain
                    social evils which must be remedied and certain social wrongs which must be put right."30 After 1900, the social workers were in the forefront of the demand for
                    government intervention, state and national, in behalf of the poor and weak.
            Their number-one target was child labor. In 1853, Charles Loring Brace had organized the
                    Children's Aid Society to rescue homeless children from the streets of 
                        New York City
                    . His work awakened him to the extent and ill-effects of child labor, and Brace devoted
                    one chapter of his The Dangerous Classes of 
                            New York
                        
                (1872) to the "Factory Children." In the 1890's,
                    the attack on child labor gained in vigor as evidence accumulated about the shocking conditions
                    under which thousands of children toiled. With the growth of industry, the rise of the city, and the
                    influx of tens of thousands of immigrants, the voices of philanthropic men and women were raised in
                    protest. As a follow-up to his How the Other Half Lives (1890), Jacob Riis exposed
                    in his The Children of the Poor (1892) the wholesale evasion of the 
                        New York
                     child labor laws. From 
                        Chicago
                     came the voice of Florence Kelley, a Hull House resident and chief factory inspector of 
                        Illinois
                    . In her annual reports Mrs. Kelley publicized the brutalizing and unhealthy conditions
                    under which children toiled in the stockyards, the glass factories, and the tenement sweatshops of
                    the garment industry. If the parents could not provide the child with proper care and education, she
                    told the National Conference on Charities and Correction in 1896, the government must assume the
                        responsibility.31
            
            Not many states had met that responsibility. The Horatio Alger myth with its glorification of
                    youthful labor remained part of the American dream, and most Americans in the nineteenth century
                    "took it for granted that poor children had to work and assumed that, within reason, it was
                    good for them to do so."32 As of 1900, only twenty-eight states had
                        
                  
                     30 Robert Hunter, Poverty (
                                New York
                            , 1904), 98.
                  
                     31 Bremner, From the Depths, 381-41, 76-80; Jacob A.
                            Riis, The Children of the Poor (
                                New York
                            , 1892), especially Chapter VI, "The Little Toilers";
                            Josephine Goldmark, Impatient Crusader: Florence Kelley's Life
                            Story (
                        Urbana, Ill.
                     , 1963), 36-47.
                  
                     32 Bremner, From the Depths, 77.
               
                     adopted any legislation to protect children working in
                    manufacturing and only ten more had any laws to prohibit child labor in mining. The situation was at
                    its worst in the South, 
                  Alabama, North Carolina, South
                    Carolina
               , and 
                        Georgia
                    —the four leading textile states—had no child labor laws. Even in
                    those Northern state with laws on the books, most were limited to factory work, were loosely drawn,
                    and were even more laxly enforced. Only nine states had a minimum-age requirement as high as
                    fourteen years; only three states had extended their coverage to include such jobs as messenger,
                    telephone, and telegraph service and laundry work; only 
                        Boston
                     regulated children engaged in street trades such as selling newspapers or working as
                        bootblanks.33 In his The Bitter Cry of the Children
                    (1906), John Spargo estimated the number of child workers under fifteen at two-and-a-quarter
                    million. Efforts to strengthen old laws or adopt new ones faced the opposition of powerful
                    interests: the textile mills of the South; the glass factories of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Indiana, 
                        New Jersey
                    , and 
                        Ohio
                    ; the coal mines of Pennsylvania and West 
                        Virginia
                    ; the cannery interests; and the tenement sweatshop operators.34
            
            To overcome this entrenched opposition, organization was indispensable, Florence Kelley led the way.
                    In 1899 she moved to 
                        New York
                     to become general secretary of the National Consumers' League. The
                    league's purpose was "to bring the power of consumers to bear upon the improvement
                    of working conditions" through publicity. Consumers were urged to buy only those white
                    goods having the National Consumers' League label as a guarantee that the goods were
                    produced under decent working conditions. But from the beginning the league's members saw
                    that legislation was also needed. Under Mrs. Kelley's leadership, the league engaged in
                    campaigns against tenement sweatshops, starvation wages, excessive hours, and child labor. So
                    widespread was the evil of child labor, and so powerful the interests profiting from its
                    continuance, that Mrs. Kelley decided a separate organization must be set up devoted to the cause.
                    In 1902, at the 
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 212-17; Elizabeth Sands Johnson, "Child Labor
                            Legislation," John R. Commons et al., History of Labor in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1926-1935), III, 403-37. 
                                Alabama
                             had had a child labor law earlier but had repealed it during the nineties.
                  
                     34 John Spargo, The Bitter Cry of the Children (
                                New York
                            , 1906), 140-90.
               
                     behest of Mrs. Kelley and her close co-worker, Lillian Wald of
                    the Nurses' Settlement, the 
                        New York
                     settlement houses set up the Child Labor Committee under the chairmanship of Robert
                    Hunter of the University Settlement. Under the auspices of the committee, a pioneering investigation
                    of child labor was made, and the committee spearheaded the adoption in 1903 of a new law for 
                        New York
                     that was the most advanced in the nation.35
            
            A similar movement was underway in the South, with 
                        Alabama
                     the pioneer. The lead in agitating the child labor question in 
                        Alabama
                     had been taken by the American Federation of Labor as an offshot of its Southern
                    organizing drive. But the campaign was taken up by humanitarian-minded members of the middle- and
                    upper-classes. Shocked by evidence gathered by an AFL investigator about conditions in 
                        Alabama
                    's textile mills, Edgar Gardner Murphy, rector of St. John's Episcopal
                    Church in 
                        Montgomery
                    , became leader of the fight. The strength of the opposition that appeared convinced
                    Murphy of the need for a more informed public opinion. The result was the formation in 1901 of the 
                        Alabama
                     Child Labor Committee. Although Murphy resigned his ministerial post in November, 1901,
                    to become executive secretary of the Southern Education Board, he continued his activity as head of
                    the 
                        Alabama
                     committee. To awaken the public conscience Murphy wrote, and his committee distributed,
                    pamphlets, leaflets, newspaper articles, and editorials. He even took his camera to mills and
                    photographed the children at work. The first fruits of the agitation was the adoption of a
                    compromise bill in 1903. The law was a modest one: the age limit was twelve years, a loophole
                    permitted the working of ten-year-olds "to support a dependent parent," and there
                    was no provision for enforcement or inspection. Despite these shortcomings, a beginning had been
                    made—and public opinion, not only in 
                        Alabama
                     but throughout the South and even the nation, had been stirred.36
            
            
               
                  35 Goldmark, Impatient Crusader, 51-65, 78-87; Johnson,
                        "Child Labor Legislation," 406-07.
               
                  36 Elizabeth H. Davidson, Child Labor Legislation in the
                            Southern Teztile States (
                     Chapel Hill,
                                N.C.
                  , 1939), 18-51; Maud King Murphy, Edgar Gardner Murphy: From Records and Memories (
                            New York
                        , 1943), 47-50; Herbert J. Doherty, Jr., "Voices of Protest from the New
                        South, 1875-1910," 
                     Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Review, XLII (June, 1955), 58-60.
            
            
            Up to this time, the attacks upon child labor had been made at the state level. But the leaders of
                    the movement grew increasingly aware of the need for a national organization that would spearhead a
                    nation-wide campaign and coordinate the activities of local groups. Speaking before the National
                    Conference on Charities and Correction at 
                  Atlanta,
                            Georgia
               , in 1903, Edgar Gardner Murphy warned (in
                    the recollection of one of his audience) that child labor was "a national problem, to be
                    solved by a nation-wide movement of protest and effective legislation."37 On his visits to 
                        New York
                     for the Southern Education Board, Murphy discussed the need for such an organization
                    with Dr. Felix Adler, head of the Ethical Culture Society, professor of political and social ethics
                    at 
                        Columbia
                     University, and a leading figure in the 
                        New York
                     Child Labor Committee. The 
                        New York
                     committee took the initiative and appointed in October, 1903, a special committee
                    consisting of Adler, Florence Kelley, and William H. Baldwin, Jr., president of the Long Island
                    Railroad, to look into the possibility of organizing a national child labor committee. Working in
                    close touch with Murphy, the committee sent out letters to a select list of persons interested in
                    social reform. The encouraging response led to enlargement of the group. The new members included
                    Jane Addams of Hull House, Lillian Wald, and Edgar Gardner Murphy. This group, known as the
                    "Sub-Committee," worked out the plans for the new organization. On April 15, 1904,
                    the National Child Labor Committee was formally launched.38
            
            The purpose of this committee was to abolish child labor in the 
                        United States
                    . To this end, the committee would undertake: "to investigate and report the
                    facts about child labor"; "to assist in protecting children by suitable
                    legislation against premature or otherwise injurious employment"; and "to aid in
                    promoting the enforcement of laws relating to child labor." The committee would act to
                    co-ordinate and supplement the 
                  
                     37 Murphy, Edgar Gardner Murphy, 72.
                  
                     38 Davidson, Child Labor Legislation in the Southern
                                Textile States, 122-25; Goldmark, Impatient Crusader, 91-92;
                            Johnson, "Child Labor Legislation," 406-08; "The National Child
                            Labor Organization (A Suggested Organization)," National Child Labor Committee
                            Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress); Minutes of the first meeting of the
                            National Child Labor Committee, April 15, 1904, ibid. Hereafter, the
                            National Child Labor Committee Papers will be cited as the NCLC Papers.
               
                     work of state and local child labor committees and to encourage
                    the formation of such committees where they did not exist. To ease Southern fears of outside
                    interference the preliminary statement of plans sent out by the "Sub-Committee"
                    included the "suggestion" that the function of the National Child Labor Committee
                    would be 
                        not to promote the interests of suggested federal legislation; but, by properly informing the
                            public mind and quickening the public conscience, to aid in creating and interpreting a
                            national sentiment upon the subject of child labor—a sentiment which may become
                            intelligently operative under the local conditions and through the specific laws of each of
                            our several States.
                     To many of the committee's members, this "suggestion"
                    constituted a fundamental principle of its policy.39
            
            The membership of the committee included such nationally prominent figures as ex-President Grover
                    Cleveland, Ben B. Lindsey, famed juvenile court judge of Denver, Gifford Pinchot, of conservation
                    fame, Charles W. Eliot, president of 
                        Harvard
                    , and Mrs. Sarah S. Platt Decker, president of the General Federation of
                    Women's Clubs. Other members were philanthropically minded businessmen such as Alexander J.
                    Cassatt, president of the Pennsylvania Railroad, Robert W. De Forest, wealthy 
                        New York
                     corporation lawyer, Adolph S. Ochs, publisher of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times, and investment bankers Paul Warburg and Isaac N. Seligman. Pioneer social
                    workers of the day were on the committee and included Edward T. Devine, editor of Charities and director of the 
                        New York
                     School of Social Work, Homer Folks, former commissioner of public charities of 
                        New York City
                    , and Robert Hunter. The churches were represented by James Cardinal Gibbons, the Right
                    Reverend David H. Greer, the bishop coadjutor of the Episcopal Diocese of 
                        New York
                    , and John W. Wood, corresponding secretary of the Domestic and Foreign Missionary
                    Society of they of the Episcopalian church. Organized labor was represented by Edgar E. Clark, the
                    grand chief conductor of the Order of Railway Conductors, and J. W. Sullivan of the Typographical
                    Union. About one third of the committee members were Southerners including 
                  
                     39 "The National Child Labor Committee (A Suggested
                            Organization)," NCLC Papers. See also Murphy, Edgar Gardner
                            Murphy, 75-76. The official statement of purpose appeared in National Child Labor
                            Committee Leaflet [No. 1] ([
                                New York
                            , 19043).
               
                     Senator "Pitchfork Ben" Tillman of 
                        South Carolina
                    , Hoke Smith, future governor of 
                        Georgia
                    , Samuel Spencer, president of the Southern Railroad, James H. Kirkland, chancellor of
                    Vanderbilt University, and Clark Howell, editor of the 
                        Atlanta
                    
                    Constitution.40
            
            A board of trustees, under the chairmanship of Dr. Felix Adler and composed of members who lived near
                    enough to 
                        New York
                     to attend the meetings, directed the work of the organization in the intervals between
                    the annual meetings of the membership. The day-to-day work of the committee was handled by three
                    salaried officers. The first executive secretary was Samuel McCune Lindsay, professor of sociology
                    at the University of Pennsylvania and, at the time of his appointment, the commissioner of education
                    in 
                        Puerto Rico
                    . Owen R. Lovejoy, minister of the First Congregational Church of 
                  Mount Vernon, New
                    York
               , was named assistant secretary in charge of the committee's work
                    in the North. To supervise the work in the South, where the committee would face its main task, the
                    board appointed thirty-eight-year-old Alexander J. McKelway. Though born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , McKelway had been reared in 
                        Virginia
                     and considered himself a Southerner. The son of a clergyman, he had been ordained a
                    Presbyterian minister in 1891. He then moved to 
                        North Carolina
                    , first as a minister in 
                        Fayetteville
                     and later as a newspaper editor in 
                        Charlotte
                    , where he became active in the child labor movement.41
            
            
               
                  40 The membership is listed in National Child Labor Committee Leaflet [No. 1]. During 1906 an "associate membership" was
                        instituted, consisting of three categories—"guarantors,"
                        "sustaining members," and "associates"—depending
                        upon the amount of contribution; Samuel McCune Lindsay, "Abstract of Report of the
                        Secretary of the National Child Labor Committee on the Second Year's Work, Ended
                        September 30, 1906," Annals of the American Academy of Political ad Social
                            Science. XXIX (January, 1907), 181.
               
                  41 Minutes of the first meeting of the National Child Labor Committee,
                        April 16, 1904, NCLC Papers; Minutes of the first meeting of the Executive Committee of the
                        National Child Labor Committee, May 4, 1904, ibid.; Minutes of the second
                        meeting of the Executive Committee of the National Child Labor Committee, July 19, 1904, ibid.; Minutes of the third meeting of the Executive Committee of the National
                        Child Labor Committee, October 3, 1904, ibid.; Minutes of the second meeting
                        of the National Child Labor Committee, November 28, 1904, ibid. See also
                        Herbert J. Doherty, Jr., "Alexander J. McKelway: Preacher to Progressive," Journal of Southern History, XXIV (May, 1958), 177-90; Davidson, Child Labor Legislation in the Southern Textile States, 126-26. A biographical sketch
                        of Lovejoy appears in Charities and the Commons, XIX (November 2, 1907),
                        951-52.
            
            
            The leading task of the committee, Adler told the first meeting, "would be investigation,
                    and always fresh and farther investigation—since a knowledge of the facts will be the
                    most useful of all means of accomplishing results." As the opening gun in this attack,
                    investigations were undertaken of conditions in the coal mines of Pennsylvania, the cotton mills of
                    the South, the glass industry of 
                        New Jersey
                    , Pennsylvania, and 
                        Ohio
                    , and the silk mills of 
                        New Jersey
                    . Information was collected about existing child labor laws and their enforcement.
                    Lindsay arranged for the publication of the findings in the influential Annuls of the
                        American Academy of Political and Social Science. Traveling through the South, McKelway was
                    active on the lecture platform and indefatigible in talking with every public figure who would give
                    him a hearing. Yeoman work in publicizing the committee's work was done by the social-work
                    journal Charities. To enlist the women of America, the committee arranged with the
                        Woman's Home Companion for a campaign of publicity.42
            
            Growing support came from the nation's women's clubs. In the years after the Civil
                    War, "a veritable domestic revolution" took place which gave increasing numbers of
                    women new leisure time. An outgrowth was the rapid spread of women's clubs. In 1889, the
                    pioneer 
                        New York
                     club Sorosis called a convention of the existing clubs to celebrate its twenty-first
                    anniversary. The upshot of this gathering was the founding the following year of the General
                    Federation 
                  
                     42 Minutes of the first meeting of the National Child Labor Committee,
                            April 15, 1904, NCLC Papers; Minutes of the second meeting of the Executive Committee of the
                            National Child Labor Committee, July 19, 1904, ibid.; Minutes of the third
                            meeting of the Executive Committee of the National Child Labor Committee, October 3, 1904,
                                ibid.; Samuel McCune Lindsay to the Executive Committee of the
                            National Child Labor Committee, October 4, November 10, 1904, ibid.;
                            Minutes of the eleventh meeting of the Board of Trustees of the National Child Labor
                            Committee, October 24, 1906, ibid.; Halford Erickson, "Child
                            Labor Legislation and Methods of Enforcement in Northern Central States," Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, XXV (May,
                            1905), 467-79; Florence Kelley, "Child Labor Legislation and Enforcement in 
                                New England
                             and the Middle States," ibid., XXV, 480-90; Neal L.
                            Anderson, "Child Labor Legislation in the South," ibid.,
                            XXV, 491-507; Ben Lindsey, "Child Labor Legislation and Methods of Enforcement in
                            the Western States," ibid., XXV, 508-15; Alexander J. McKelway,
                            "Child Labor in the Southern Cotton States," ibid.,
                            XXVII (March, 1906), 259-69; Owen R. Lovejoy, "Child Labor in the Coal
                            Mines," ibid., XXVII, 293-99; Owen R. Lovejoy, "Child
                            Labor in the Glass Industry," ibid., XXVII, 300-11. See also
                            Davidson, Child Labor Legislation in the Southern Textile States, 127-28;
                            Johnson, "Child Labor Legislation," 408-09.
               
                     of Women's Clubs. By 1904, the General Federation
                    boasted a membership of almost 400,000 women. The federation's chief objective as listed in
                    its constitution was "literary, artistic, or scientific culture," but with the
                    passage of time the organization spoke ever more loudly upon public affairs. The fourth biennial
                    convention in 1898 unanimously adopted resolutions calling for maximum-hour laws for women and an
                    end to child labor. After the turn of the century, the tempo of the federation's activity
                    upon the child labor front increased. Its Child Labor Committee urged "that every woman in
                    the General Federation should be a 'committee of one' to use all possible
                    influence against anything which dwarfs the minds and bodies of the children." Local clubs
                    set up their own child labor committees, and in state after state, women's clubs
                    spearheaded the fight for more stringent legislation.43
            
            The national magazines began to take up the question. Poole's Index to
                        Periodical Literature lists sixty-nine articles under the heading of "Child
                    Labor" from 1902 to 1906 compared with four articles listed for the years from 1897 to
                    1901. During the later period articles appeared in such influential journals as McClure's, The Independent, The Arena, and The Outlook.
               44 A series of articles by Mrs. John Van Vorst in that magazine par excellence
                    of middle-class America, The Saturday Evening Post, awakened nation-wide
                        interest.45 Edwin Markham's emotional indictment of child labor,
                    "The Hoe-Man in the Making," in William Randolph Hearst's 
                  
                     43 Eleanor Flexner, Century of Struggle: The
                                Woman's Rights Movement in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                        Cambridge, Mass.
                     , 1959), 179-80; Mary I. Wood, The History of the General Federation of Women's Clubs (
                                New York
                            , 1912), 22-218, 317-21; The Federation Bulletin, I (May,
                            1904), 172, (June, 1904), 187, II (March, 1905), 191-92, III (October, 1905), 14-18, (March,
                            1906), 277-80, (June, 1906), 448-49, IV (December, 1906), 98-101; Mrs. A. O. Granger,
                            "The Work of the General Federation of Women's Clubs against Child
                            Labor," Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social
                            Science, XXV (May, 1905), 516-21.
                  
                     44 Johnson, "Child Labor Legislation," 407. A full
                            list of articles is given in William I. Fletcher and Mary Poole, Poole's Index to Periodical Literature: Fifth Supplement from January 1, 1902
                                to January 1, 1907 (
                                New York
                            , 1938), 114-15.
                  
                     45 Mrs. John Van Vorst, "The Cry of the Children,"
                                Saturday Evening Post, CLXXVIII (March 10, 1906), 1-3, 28-29; (April
                            14, 1906), 3-5; (April 28, 1906), 10-11; (May 5, 1906), 11-12; (May 19, 1906), 12-13, 26-27;
                            CLXXIX (July 7, 1906), 12-13; (July 28, 1906), 17-18; (Aumst 18, 1906), 17-18.
               
                    
                    Cosmopolitan created a a Capitalizing upon the excitement aroused, the Cosmopolitan launched the Child Labor Federation with Gustavus Myers as its
                    secretary and the slogan "Child Labor Must Go."47 The ground
                    was thus being sown for a new onslaught against the evil throughout the country.
            Ever attuned to the public mood, Theodore Roosevelt took up the question. In his annual message of
                    December, 1904, he asked Congress to authorize an investigation by the Bureau of Labor into labor
                    conditions throughout the country and especially into "the conditions of child labor and
                    child-labor legislation in the several States." When Congress failed to act, the chief
                    executive renewed his request the following year.48 When some lawmakers objected
                    that the Census Bureau could handle the job, the President insisted that the bureau was not the
                    proper agency for the task. He did not want a mere collection of statistics, he explained.
                    "I want to have some man who is cool-headed, but who has a genuine knowledge of and
                    sympathy with … the needs of labor, so that the investigation may, if possible, bear
                    practical fruit."49 Roosevelt thought that the chief of the Bureau of
                    Labor, Dr. Charles P. Neill, professor of political economy at Catholic University and a pioneer
                    social worker, was "peculiarly fitted" for the job. But for this very reason, many
                    congressmen balked and no action was taken before the end of the first session of the Fifty-ninth
                    Congress in July, 1906.50
            
            Roosevelt reaffirmed his intention to push for action on the matter when Congress reconvened.51 But Beveridge wrote urging him that another investigation—even one
                    by the Bureau of Labor—was insufficient. "The public," the Indiana
                    senator maintained, "is better informed on this question than 
                  
                     46 Edwin Markham, "The Hoe-Man in the Making," Cosmopolitan Magazine, XLI (September, 1906), 480-87; (October, 1906),
                            667-74; XLII (November, 1906), 20-28; (December, 1906), 143-50; (January, 1907), 327-33;
                            (February, 1907), 391-97; (April, 1907), 667-73.
                  
                     47 "Child Labor Must Go," ibid.,
                            XLII (November, 1906), 109-12.
                  
                     48 Theodore Roosevelt, State Papers as Governor and
                                President, 1899-1909 (The Works of Theodore Roosevelt, National Edition, Vol. XV; 
                                New York
                            , 1926), 220-21, 285.
                  
                     49 Theodore Roosevelt to Edgar D. Crumpacker, May 12, 1906, Theodore
                            Roosevelt Papers.
                  
                     50 Theodore Roosevelt to Victor H. Metcalf, May 12, 1906, Morison, Letters of Theodore Roosevelt, V, 269.
                  
                     51 Theodore Roosevelt to William H. Moody, October 26, 1906, Roosevelt
                            Papers.
               
                     you would believe." The time had come for action by
                    Congress. A national law, he told the President, was required to deal with this nation-wide evil.52 On the stump that fall, Beveridge called for a national child labor law as a
                    "must" to safeguard the nation's "citizenship." At
                    stake was the national well-being. "We can not," he proclaimed, "permit
                    any man or corporation to stunt the bodies, minds and souls of American children. We can not thus
                    wreck the future of the American Republic."53
            
            Mixed motives animated the Indiana lawmaker. He was outraged by the inhumanity of child labor. His
                    own youthful drudgery in the fields and lumber camps paled beside the harsher fate suffered by tens
                    of thousands of children in the crowded factories and sweatshops. As he looked more deeply into the
                    extent of child labor, he reported to Albert Shaw, he found it "even a more serious evil
                    than was supposed." There were tens of thousands of young men and women "whose
                    bodies have been injured, minds have been stunted and whose very souls have been
                    dulled…." Nor were these ills limited to the present generation. Themselves
                    crippled in mind and spirit, these victims of child labor "produce children who are more or
                    less degenerate."54
            
            Beveridge was an ambitious man, eager for the spotlight, with his eye on the presidency. Leadership
                    of the fight against child labor promised the popular acclaim he craved.55 The
                    dictates of party advantage added their voice. No Republican could wish the Democrats to gain the
                    credit for espousing so popular a measure. "I am holding my breath," he confessed
                    to Roosevelt's private secretary, "for fear of seeing an announcement any day that
                    some Democratic Congressman or Senator will propose just such a law." Even more alarming
                    was the danger that the archdemagogue of the day, William Randolph Hearst, "will beat us to
                    it." The Indiana lawmaker warned that Hearst's "magazines have been
                    making a specialty 
                  
                     52 Beveridge to Theodore Roosevelt, October 16, 1906, Reveridge
                            Papers.
                  
                     53 "Duties of the Present, Not Memories of the Past"
                            Speech, November 3, 1906, Beveridge, Meaning of the Times, 302. See also
                            "The Era of Political Independence" Speech, October 8, 1906, ibid., 291; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, November 4, 1906.
                  
                     54 Beveridge to Albert Shaw, November 22, 1906, Beveridge Papers.
                  
                     55 See Beveridge to George H. Lorimer, December 3, 1906, ibid.; Reveridge to John C. Shaffer, December 3, 1906, ibid.
                  
               
                     of this thing," and he exhorted: "We have got
                    to beat them to the goal and score a touchdown before they begin to play."56
            
            But more than thoughts of partisan advantage moved him. As an American nationalist, the Hoosier
                    senator feared for the republic's future unless action were taken. Let this country take
                    heed from the example of Britain, he warned. The thousands of men found physically unfit during the
                    Boer War showed how child labor had undermined British manhood. With the loss of its virility had
                    come ever more bitter internal discord. Should this country suffer the same fate? Child labor, he
                    saw, breeds "an ever increasing army of haters of society at
                        large…."57 Therein lay the gravest threat to American
                    institutions. "When these children grow up and understand how they are ruined for
                    life," he lamented to 
                        Chicago
                     newspaper publisher John C. Shaffer, "there is developed the classes which we
                    all fear and have reason to fear."58
            
            The individual states, in Beveridge's opinion, could not halt the cancer. Under the existing
                    "clumsy, ineffectual tangle of state statutes," the most progressive state
                    remained at the mercy of unfair competition from the least enlightened one. Only a national law
                    could work.59 Beveridge saw no constitutional bar. Even in his most standpat
                    days, he had believed "that whatever may be essential to the development of the
                    people's nationality lies latent in the Constitution's general terms, awaiting the
                    necessity of events to call it into action."60 He conceded that
                    "a federal statute can not be passed directly controlling the factories and mines in the
                    States. That is the province of the States." But the Meat Inspection Act showed the way.
                    That law barred uninspected meats from shipment in interstate commerce. Why not apply the same ban
                    against goods made by child labor? Congress has, the Indiana senator held, "absolute power
                    over the railroads, boats, ships and other agencies of interstate commerce and unlimited powers
                    under 
                  
                     56 Beveridge to William Loeb, Jr., November 12, 1906, ibid.
                  
                  
                     57 Beveridge to Albert Shaw, November 22, 1906, ibid.
                  
                  
                     58 Beveridge to John C. Shaffer, November 20, 1906, ibid.
                  
                  
                     59 "Duties of the Present, Not Memories of the Past"
                            Speech, November 3, 1906, Beveridge, Meaning of the Times, 301.
                  
                     60 "Vitality of the American Constitution" Speech,
                            January 4, 1898, ibid., 6.
               
                     the Constitution to provide that they shall not carry the
                    products of factories and mines which employ children."61
            
            His child labor bill differed from the Meat Inspection Law in one detail. That law had placed federal
                    inspectors in each packing house. But Beveridge realized that a child labor bill providing for
                    on-the-spot federal inspection of nearly every plant throughout the country could never pass
                    Congress. So he tried a different tack. His bill forbade any carrier from transporting in interstate
                    commerce the products of any mine or factory that had not filed an affidavit that no children under
                    fourteen years of age were employed. Stiff penalties were prescribed for violations by the carriers
                    or for the filing of a false affidavit by the factories or mines. Enforcement was left in the hands
                    of the local federal attorneys.62 "There is no question
                    whatever," he told presidential secretary William Loeb, Jr., "about the
                    constitutionality of this law. Neither is there any question about its being practical. Neither is
                    there any question about the fact that it is absolutely the only way we can reach the subject by
                    national statute."63
            
            Looking for support, Beveridge turned to the National Child Labor Committee. At a special meeting of
                    its board of trustees on November 23, he appeared in person to explain his bill and ask for the
                    committee's support. After "an animated discussion," the decision was
                    postponed until December 6. A copy of the bill was sent to the full membership of the committee
                    along with a questionnaire asking for "an expression of opinion" for the
                    board's guidance on "what action, if any, should be taken in this matter by the
                    National Committee as a committee."64 On December 5, Beveridge formally
                    introduced 
                  
                     61
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, November 19, 1906.
                  
                     62 Beveridge to Gifford Pinchot, November 12, 1906, Gifford Pinchot
                            Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress); Beveridge to Theodore Roosevelt, November
                            24, 1906, Beveridge Papers; Beveridge to Albert Shaw, November 13, 1906, ibid.; Beveridge to 
                                Butler
                             Ames, November 14, 1906, ibid. A copy of the bill is attached
                            to the Minutes of the twelfth meeting of the Board of Trustees of the National Child Labor
                            Committee, November 23, 1906, NCLC Papers.
                  
                     63 Beveridge to William Loeb, Jr., November 12, 1906, Beveridge
                            Papers.
                  
                     64 Minutes of the twelfth meeting of the Board of Trustees of the
                            National Child Labor Committee, November 23, 1906, NCLC Papers; Samuel McCune Lindsay to
                            Edgar Gardner Murphy, November 22, 24, 26, 1906, Edgar Gardner Murphy Papers (University of 
                                North Carolina
                             Library, 
                                Chapel Hill
                            ); Francis G. Caffey to Edgar Gardner Murphy, November 30, 1906, ibid.
                  
               
                     the bill in the Senate, and the next day Representative Herbert
                    Parsons of 
                        New York
                     introduced an identical measure in the House.65
            
            At the meeting of the board of the National Child Labor Committee on December 6, the discussion was
                    heated. The opposition was led by Robert W. De Forest. A wealthy corporation lawyer turned
                    philanthropist, De Forest was president of the Charity Organization Society of 
                        New York
                    , president of the Russell Sage Foundation, and formerly chairman of the 
                        New York
                     State Tenement House Commission of 1900. He questioned how effective the law would be
                    without on-the-spot federal inspection. "Practically, every employer would make a
                    certificate, and every carrier would carry, and conditions would remain the
                    same…." There was, he added, "grave doubt about the constitutionality
                    of this bill." Most importantly, De Forest warned that to support federal legislation in a
                    field properly belonging to the states would handicap the committee in its work in the South where
                    the worst child labor abuses were found. "I think," he told the board,
                    "our influence in the South would be seriously impaired by giving our official approval to
                    a measure which many Southerners will think of the Force Bill variety."66
            
            A resolution to the effect that the committee was not at present ready to endorse any pending bill
                    for federal regulation of child labor was defeated. Thereupon the trustees voted to endorse the
                    Beveridge bill, "believing that it will establish a National standard to correct the evils
                    of child labor in their important National aspects … and will tend to establish equality
                    of economic competition without minimizing State responsibility."67 The
                    gains at the state level had been dishearteningly slow. Even before Beveridge had raised the
                    question, some members of the committee had begun to doubt the advisability of relying upon action
                    by the individual states. The introduction of his bill crystallized this feeling. 
                  
                     65
                            Congressional Record, 69 Cong., 2 Sess., 60, 169.
                  
                     66 Robert W. De Forest to Paul M. Warburg, December 6, 1906, letter
                            attached to Minutes of the twelfth meeting of the Board of Trustees of the National Child
                            Labor Committee, December 6, 1906, NCLC Papers.
                  
                     67 Minutes of the twelfth meeting of the Board of Trustees of the
                            National Child Labor Committee, December 6, 1906, ibid.
                  
               
                     Here was an opportunity to strike at child labor throughout the
                    country at a single blow.68 The reason "that determined the action of
                    the majority of our Board of Trustees in endorsing the Beveridge-Parsons bill," Executive
                    Secretary Samuel McCune Lindsay explained, was 
                        that the States seem to be impotent to enforce their child labor legislation. This is
                            true—both North and South, of all the States, with very few exceptions. The
                            reason for this impotency is largely attributable to the opposition of manufacturers who
                            fear inter-State competition, and in part is due to the poverty of the States in supplying
                            the necessary machinery, such as factory inspection, to carry out legislation of this kind.
                            The Federal Government, on the contrary, can establish a national uniform standard which
                            equalizes competitive conditions, and the Federal Department of Justice has ample resources
                            in backing up, inquiring into, and prosecuting any reports of violation.69
                  
                    
                
            Beveridge was the featured speaker at the annual convention of the National Child Labor Committee the
                    following week and made a stirring appeal for his bill. The enthusiastic gathering of over four
                    thousand persons adopted a formal resolution of support by a viva voce vote.70
                    The committee released Alexander McKelway from his duties in the South and sent him to Washington to
                    lobby for the Beveridge bill.71 Beveridge's hopes rose with the
                    endorsement of the National Child Labor Committee. "I begin to think," he confided
                    to his friend George H. Lorimer of the Saturday Evening Post, "that I
                    will get the bill through next session and possibly, though not probably, this session. It is sure
                    the most popular reform now before the people."72
            
            
               
                  68 Murphy, Edgar Gardner Murphy, 84-85; Davidson, Child Labor Legislation in the Southern Textile States, 129-32.
               
                  69 Samuel McCune Lindsay to George Foster Peabody, January 26, 1907,
                        Murphy Papers.
               
                  70 "Proceedings of the Third Annual Convention of the National
                        Child Labor Committee, 
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
                  , December 13, 14, 15, 1906,"
                        typescript, pp. 29-45, NCLC Papers; Charities and the Commons, XVII
                        (1906-1907), 639-49; Samuel McCune Lindsay to members and associates of the National Child Labor
                        Committee, January 17, 1907, Murphy Papers. A copy of Beveridge's speech is reprinted
                        in the Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science, XXIX
                        (January, 1907), 115-24.
               
                  71 Alexander J. McKelway, "Legislative Hints for Social
                        Reformers," chapter entitled "The Beveridge Bill," Alexander J.
                        McKelway Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress). Hereafter, this work will be cited
                        as McKelway, "Beveridge Bill."
               
                  72 Beveridge to George H. Lorimer, December 15, 1906, Beveridge
                    Papers.
            
            
            Disappointments followed, however. One was the failure of organized labor to rally behind the bill.
                    Beveridge's announcement of his intention to introduce a child labor bill led to a spirited
                    debate on the question at the convention of the American Federation of Labor in mid-November. A
                    resolution was presented that the federation endorse adoption of a national child labor law. But the
                    AFL leadership, headed by Samuel Gompers, in its devotion to self-help through trade-union action,
                    looked askance at the proposal. The AFL ideal remained the impartial policeman state: a national
                    child labor law might possibly set a dangerous precedent for federal interference in labor
                        questions.73 The resolution as amended by the resolutions committee and
                    approved by the convention called for "the enactment of a law in the several states
                    prohibiting the employment of children under sixteen years of age.74
            
            Although some individual union leaders endorsed the national bill,75 the AFL
                    officially continued to remain aloof. In his report to the 1907 convention, Gompers hedged on the
                    question. Opinion remained divided on the wisdom of action by Congress, he told the delegates. Until
                    further evidence clarified the issues, his only recommendation was that the federation back passage
                    of a model child labor law for the 
                        District of Columbia
                    . The convention reaffirmed the federation's commitment to state action for
                    dealing with child labor.76 This refusal by the AFL to back his bill weakened
                    Beveridge's hand. When the Hoosier senator wrote the President that "organized
                    labor is overwhelmingly for this bill—militantly for it," Roosevelt retorted
                    that he had spoken with 
                  
                     73
                            Report of Proceedings of the Twenty-sixth Annual Convention of the American
                                Federation of Labor Held … November 12 to 24 Inclusive 1906 (Washington,
                            1906), 138, 146, 164. The official AFL position on the national child labor bill is
                            presented in Eva McDonald Valesh, "Child Labor," American
                                Federationist, XIV (March, 1907), 166-73.
                  
                     74
                            Report of Proceedings of Twenty-sixth Annual Convention of American Federation
                                of Labor, 164.
                  
                     75 Theodore Perry to Beveridge, March 5, 1908, Beveridge Papers. See
                            also Report of Proceedings of Twenty-sixth Annual Convention of American
                                Federation of Labor, 138, 146; Report of Proceedings of the
                                Twenty-seventh Annual Convention of the American Federation of Labor Held …
                                November 11 to 23 Inclusive 1907 (Washington, 1907)) 165-56, 172-73.
                  
                     76
                            Report of Proceedings of Twenty-seventh Annual Convention of American
                                Federation of Labor, 28, 336-37.
               
                     the top AFL leaders and "not a single one of them would
                    admit that he favored it."77
            
            Even more disappointing than the aloofness of organized labor was Roosevelt's refusal to
                    lend his support. In his annual message of December, 1906, the President reiterated his plea that
                    Congress authorize an investigation by the Bureau of Labor into the conditions of labor of women and
                    children to "help toward arousing the public conscience." But he affirmed that
                    "each State must ultimately settle the question in its own way…." There
                    was one place, he indicated, where Congress could and should act. That place was the 
                        District of Columbia
                     where the constitutional authority of Congress to act was unquestioned. A model child
                    labor law for the District, the chief executive told the lawmakers, would provide a standard for the
                    states to follow.78
            
            The message came as a sharp disappointment to Beveridge. To save face he told newspapers that the
                    President favored the national bill but was away in 
                        Panama
                     and had heard about Beveridge's plans too late to include a recommendation in
                    the message.79 Haunting the White House, he pleaded with the President to send
                    Congress a special message urging the passage of the bill. Roosevelt seriously considered the
                        possibility.80 But he decided against doing so: organized labor was
                    lukewarm; the leaders of the child labor movement were divided; he himself had doubts about the
                    bill's constitutionality; and he well knew the opposition the bill would face in Congress.
                    Unwilling to risk his prestige in a losing fight, the chief executive made up his mind not to back
                    the measure. Passage of the bill authorizing the Bureau of Labor to make an investigation of the
                    laboring conditions of women and children, he wrote a House leader, seems "to me
                    … the only way of practically accomplishing anything on this subject
                        …"81
            
            
               
                  77 Beveridge to Theodore Roosevelt, November 11, 1907, Beveridge Papers;
                        Theodore Roosevelt to Beveridge, November 12, 1907, Morison, Letters of Theodore
                            Roosevelt, V, 844.
               
                  78 Roosevelt, State Papers, 359-60.
               
                  79
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, December 7, 1906. See also Beveridge to R. G. Leeds, April 3, 1907,
                        Beveridge Papers.
               
                  80 The President even had Commissioner of Labor Neill draw up a memorandum
                        for Roosevelt's information: "Memorandum on Child Labor Prepared by Charles P.
                        Neill," January 16, 1907, Roosevelt Papers.
               
                  81 Theodore Roosevelt to Richard Bartholdt, January 19, 1907, Morison, Letters of Theodore Roosevelt, V, 567. See also Theodore Roosevelt to Edgar
                        Gardner Murphy, January 17, 1907, Roosevelt Papers.
            
            
            Although Congress did, late in January, 1907, authorize the investigation by the Bureau of Labor,
                    Beveridge scorned the action as a largely meaningless sop to outraged public opinion. "The
                    evidence is before the Senate," he complained, "of the slow murder of these
                    children, not by the tens or hundreds, but by the thousands. But let us not
                    'hasten' to their relief 'too fast.' Let us
                        'investigate'…."82 Nor did he regard
                    with enthusiasm the proposal of a model child labor bill for the 
                        District of Columbia
                    . Child labor in the District was hardly the problem that existed in more heavily
                    industrialized areas. A model bill for the District, he insisted, would prohibit child labor in the
                    place with the least child labor.83
            
            His strategy was to force the Senate to go on record for or against his bill. In such a showdown, he
                    hoped, few lawmakers would dare vote no. But his bill remained pigeonholed in the Committee on Labor
                    and Education. To bypass the committee, Beveridge took the floor on January 23, 1907, when the
                    Senate had the 
                        District of Columbia
                     bill under consideration and offered his bill as an amendment to the pending measure.
                    For three days, January 23, 28, and 29, he read descriptions, supported by affidavits, of the extent
                    and inhumanity of child labor in the 
                        United States
                    .84 With industry grown nation-wide in scope, he declared, the
                    states could not handle the problem. If one state prohibited child labor while others refused to do
                    so, manufacturers in these other states gained an unfair competitive advantage. Unless his bill were
                    adopted, children throughout the 
                        United States
                     would continue to suffer from the backwardness of the least progressive states.
                    "We all hear talk about the dangers of a certain 'lower class,'"
                    Beveridge admonished his fellow senators. "Had we not better do something to stop the
                    production of that 'lower class,' that 'dangerous class?'
                        "85
            
            From the jammed galleries came repeated applause that forced the presiding officer to gavel for
                    silence. But many, if not most, of the Democratic senators represented the rising industrial forces
                    of the "New South" that depended so heavily 
                  
                     82
                            Congressional Record, 69 Cong., 2 Sess., 1807.
                  
                     83
                            Ibid., 1552.
                  
                     84 Beveridge's speeches are printed in ibid., 1552-57, 1792-1826, 1867-83.
                  
                     85
                            Ibid., 1805.
               
                     upon poorly paid child labor.86 Even
                    progressive-minded Southerners remained wedded to the traditional "states'
                    rights" shibboleths of the Southland.87 Although some Northern
                    manufactures in states with child labor laws favored action by Congress to remove the advantages
                    enjoyed by their Southern competitors,88 the Republican Senate leadership shrank
                    from so bold and far-reaching an extension of federal authority over business.89
                    Few Senators favored a national child labor law; fewer wished to go on record against so popular a
                    measure. Caught unawares by Beveridge's strategy of offering his bill as an amendment to
                    the 
                        District of Columbia
                     bill, the lawmakers shelved further discussion of the entire matter.90
            
            The House leadership had shown more skill in sidetracking the measure. The bill was referred to the
                    House Judiciary Committee for a ruling on its constitutionality, and, early in February, the
                    committee issued a report condemning the measure as an unconstitutional invasion of the powers
                    reserved to the states.91 Assailing the committee as a self-appointed
                    "junior supreme court," Beveridge denounced the report as
                    "absurd." The purpose was to head off action on his bill "without giving
                    the courts of the country a chance to pass on the questions at all." The same cry was
                    raised against every reform that threatened the ill-gotten profits of "some unrighteous
                    financial interest."92 Behind the opposition to his bill, the Indiana
                    senator charged, stood "the 
                  
                     86 See remarks by Senators Augustus O. Bacon of 
                                Georgia
                             and Lee S. Overman of 
                                North Carolina
                            , ibid., 1797-1800, 1868.
                  
                     87 For example, see the remarks of 
                                South Carolina
                            's Senator Benjamin Tillman, a member of the National Child Labor
                            Committee, ibid., 1801-02. See also Davidson, Child Labor
                                Legislation in the Southern Textile States, 135, 137-40.
                  
                     88 For example, Curtis Guild, Jr. to Theodore Roosevelt, January 28,
                            1906, Roosevelt Papers.
                  
                     89 McKelway, "Beveridge Bill." See also the remarks
                            made by Senators Charles W. Fulton of 
                                Oregon
                            , John C. Spooner of 
                                Wisconsin
                            , and Nelson W. Aldrich of 
                                Rhode Island
                            , Congressional Record, 59 Cong., 2 Sess., 1808, 1811-12,
                            1869-78.
                  
                     90 Beveridge to May G. Hay, March 7, 1907, Beveridge Papers. See also
                            Theodore Roosevelt to Beveridge, March 30, 1908, Morison, Letters of Theodore
                                Roosevelt, VI, 985.
                  
                     91
                            Congressional Record, 69 Cong., 2 Sess., 2136, 2393.
                  
                     92
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, February 8, 1907; Beveridge to Henry Beach Needham, April 9, 1908,
                            Beveridge Papers. See also Beveridge to John C. Shaffer, February 7, 1907, ibid.; Beveridge to Isaac N. Seligman, November 13, 1907, ibid.
                  
               
                     cruel, inhuman and greedy interests that are fattening off the
                    blood of American children—the cotton mills of the South, the anthracite interests of
                    Pennsylvania, the silk mills of the East, the sweatshops and the railroads that carry their
                        products….93
            
            To answer the constitutional question Beveridge prepared a lengthy brief defending the
                    constitutionality of his bill. The power to regulate interstate commerce, he argued, involves the
                    power to prohibit any article of commerce from interstate commerce. Such was the generally
                    understood meaning of the word "regulate" at the time the Constitution was
                        adopted.94 There were presently upon the statute books, he pointed out,
                    "no less than seventeen laws prohibiting various articles from interstate
                    commerce." As for the objection that the article prohibited must be injurious in itself,
                    Beveridge noted that Congress in 1905 had forbidden "the transportation in interstate
                    commerce of gold and silver goods with the words 'U. S.
                    Assay'…." No constitutional objections had been raised against that
                    measure; "it was passed," he explained bitterly, "in the interest of a
                    few cheap jewelry manufacturers of 
                        New York
                     and 
                        New Jersey
                    ."95
            
            Repeated decisions of the Supreme Court, he insisted, had confirmed the "absolute
                    power" of Congress over interstate commerce. In Champion v. Ames (1903), the famous Lottery case, the Supreme Court by a five to
                    four margin had upheld the authority of Congress to bar lottery tickets from interstate commerce
                    "for the purpose," Beveridge quoted, "of guarding the people
                        of the 
                            United States
                        
                [the senator's emphasis] against the 'widespread pestilence
                    of lotteries'…."96 If Congress would bar lottery
                    tickets from interstate commerce, then why not child-made goods? The decision in Champion v. Ames, Beveridge believed, "absolutely
                    settled" the question of the constitutionality of his bill."97
                    "There can be no question … that we have the unquestioned power," he
                    told the Senate, "to exclude from interstate commerce any article which, in our judgment,
                    is deleterious to the people of 
                  
                     93 Beveridge to W. S. Major, March 21, 1908, Beveridge Papers.
                  
                     94 Beveridge to Theodore Roosevelt, October 22, 1907, ibid.
                  
                  
                     95 Beveridge to W. S. Major, March 21, 1908, ibid.;
                                Congressional Record, 59 Cong., 2 Sess., 1881.
                  
                     96
                            Congressional Record, 59 Cong., 2 Sess., 1823, 1877.
                  
                     97 Beveridge to Harriet Lake, November 22, 1907, Beveridge
                        Papers.
               
                     the 
                        United States
                    …".98 This power could be abused. But the
                    possible abuse of any power of Congress was no argument against its existence. That was a question
                    of policy not power. "The power exists," he maintained, "—and
                    if it is abused, the remedy is in the hands of the people at the ballot-box."99
            
            Although the Fifty-ninth Congress ended without further action on child labor, Beveridge was not
                    discouraged. The struggle in 
                        Britain
                     had taken decades. He would, he informed a sympathizer, reintroduce his bill at the
                    beginning of the next session—and he was confident that "passed it shall be
                    whether it is next session or some future session."100 The opposition
                    he had encountered had increased his alienation from the standpatters in the GOP. In their
                    blindness, Beveridge believed, the reactionaries blundered toward socialism. "I
                    am", he wrote to banker-philanthropist Isaac Seligman, 
                        perhaps as active a defender of honestly-gotten wealth and of legitimate business as any man
                            now vigorously in public life. I went to the Senate as a conservative and my public speeches
                            show that I have stuck to that creed. But it is just such villainies as child labor defended
                            by some apparently respectable people that in the public mind casts discredit upon all
                            business both good and bad.101
                  
                    
            
            As the new session of Congress approached, the Hoosier senator could point to evidence of increasing
                    popular support. Beveridge's speech in the Senate, the secretary of the National Child
                    Labor Committee reported to its board, "has attracted unusual attention to the child labor
                    campaign, and the effect of the National campaign is already perceptible in our office, in the
                    widespread interest in state legislation."102 Resolutions of support
                    for the bill were beginning to flow in from women's clubs throughout the country.103 Democratic leader William Jennings Bryan announced his support of the
                        measure.104
                    
                  
                     98
                            Congressional Record, 69 Cong., 2 Sess., 1873.
                  
                     99 Beveridge to Theodore Roosevelt, October 22, 1907, Beveridge
                            Papers.
                  
                     100 Beveridge to Mrs. J. C. Tyler, May 16, 1907, ibid.
                  
                  
                     101 Beveridge to Isaac N. Seligman, November 13, 1907, ibid.
                  
                  
                     102 Minutes of the fourteenth meeting of the Board of Trustees of the
                            National Child Labor Committee, January 29, 1907, NCLC Papers.
                  
                     103 Florence Kelley to Beveridge, October 31, 1907, ibid.; Beveridge to Harriet Lake, November 22, 1907, ibid.
                  
                  
                     104 William Jennings Bryan, "The Nation versus
                            State's Rights: Mr. Bryan's Reply," The Reader,
                            IX (April, 1907), 465. See also Beveridge to Theodore Roosevelt, October 27, 1907, Beveridge
                            Papers; McKelway, "Beveridge Bill."
               
                     When he had first introduced the bill, Beveridge confessed, he
                    thought it would take at least five years to pass. But progress had been so fast, "that I
                    am now hopeful of getting it through the Senate this session of Congress and through both houses at
                    the following session."105
            
            An unexpected setback, however, was in the offing. The mainstay of Beveridge's support had
                    come from the National Child Labor Committee. But many on the committee remained unreconciled to the
                    national bill. The issue was raised anew when Edgar Gardner Murphy resigned from the committee early
                    in 1906 in protest against its endorsement of the bill. In reversing the committee's former
                    stand against federal legislation, "the Board," Murphy complained, "has
                    departed from a compact which I regarded as inviolable."106 Reflecting
                    deep-seated Southern ideas, Murphy denounced federal intervention in a sphere which he thought
                    properly belonged to the states. The recent gains at the state level, he insisted, had been
                    substantial. The states had not been so negligent as to require federal action. "There is
                    not a social or industrial evil in the whole catalogue of iniquity which the States are meeting with
                    perfect legislation and complete efficiency. Shall we therefore," he asked, "turn
                    over the police functions of the States wholly to the federal power?"
            The bill, Murphy continued, was an unconstitutional invasion of the reserved powers of the states.
                    Even if the bill were constitutional, its effectiveness was doubtful. The bill would not touch the
                    thousands of children making goods for sale within a single state. Without provision for on-the-spot
                    federal inspection, the law would be ineffective and unenforceable. Nor did the bill include the
                    detailed regulations about night work, maximum hours for children over fourteen, and compulsory
                    education required for the fullest protection of the child. Federal legislation bypassing the
                    states, he warned, would lead "to local apathy, which will largely arrest the process of
                    local education" indispensable for further advances. Most importantly, the
                    committee's endorsement of the bill 
                  
                     105 Beveridge to Harriet Lake, November 22, 1907, Beveridge Papers.
                  
                     106 Edgar Gardner Murphy to Felix Adler, December 18, 1906, attached
                            to the Minutes of the fourteenth meeting of the Board of Trustees of the National Child
                            Labor Committee, January 29, 1907, NCLC Papers; Davidson, Child Labor
                                Legislation in the Southern Textile States, 133; Murphy, Edgar Gardner
                                Murphy, 85-88.
               
                     hampered the cause in the South.107
                    "You do us," Murphy wrote Felix Adler, "an intimate, almost incurable
                    injury when you mix up the cause of the children with the bitter issues of
                        coercion…".108
            
            The resignation came as shock. Murphy more than any other person had been the founder of the National
                    Child Labor Committee. Warning that continued support of the Beveridge bill would disrupt the
                    organization, Robert W. De Forest renewed his attack.109 There was underway,
                    Florence Kelley alerted Beveridge that summer, "a very active subterranean propaganda
                    against your bill … and lukewarm friends tend to grow chilly."110 At the meeting of the board on October 25, 1907, De Forest offered a resolution
                    "that this Committee withdraws its approval and endorsement of the … so-called
                    Beveridge Bill…."111 After a bitter debate, the board voted
                    to poll the entire national committee on the resolution. "We have," Samuel McCune
                    Lindsay fumed to Beveridge, "reactionaries in corporations not for profit as well as in
                    corporations who figure now-a-days so largely in the newspapers."112
            
            The supporters of the bill rushed to its defense. Alexander J. McKelway prepared a memorandum
                    replying to its critics. From the first, he pointed out, Southern mill owners had tarred the
                    national committee as Yankee interference. Why worry now? "It may take", he warned
                    his associates, 
                        ten years to bring the Southern states to this proper standard. It may take a quarter of a
                            century. Interest in the subject may wane after another year and the reaction come. But by
                            this proposed law, all that we are wishing to accomplish in the South, for mines and
                            factories, can be done….113
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     107 Edgar Gardner Murphy, The Federal Regulation of Child
                                Labor: A Criticism of the Policy Represented by the Beveridge-Parsons Bill (n.p.,
                            1907), 12, 28.
                  
                     108 Edgar Gardner Murphy to Felix Adler, May 27, 1907, Murphy Papers.
                  
                     109 Samuel McCune Lindsay to Edgar Gardner Murphy, January 10, 1907,
                                ibid.; Robert W. De Forest to Edgar Gardner Murphy, May 28, 1907, ibid.
                  
                  
                     110 Florence Kelley to Beveridge, August 6, 1907, and undated letter,
                            [1907], Beveridge Papers.
                  
                     111 Minutes of the sixteenth meeting of the Board of Trustees of the
                            National Child Labor Committee, October 25, 1907, NCLC Papers.
                  
                     112 Samuel McCune Lindsay to Reveridge, November 8, 1907, Beveridge
                            Papers.
                  
                     113 Alexander J. McKelway, "The National Child Labor
                            Bill," undated memorandum in possession of the National Child Labor Committea, 
                                New York City
                            .
               
                     Beveridge joined in the battle. "This bill has caught
                    on and is going to be a 'go,' " he protested to a leading social worker.
                    "It would be absurd for the National Child Labor Committee to abandon it in the middle of
                    the fight." The senator personally appealed to influential members of the committee for
                    their backing.114
            
            But the members voted, eighteen to ten, to withdraw the committee's endorsement. To
                    reconcile Beveridge's backers, the resolution was reworded so as not to mention his bill by
                    name. The revised resolution unanimously adopted by the board provided that "the National
                    Child Labor Committee will for the present take no further action with reference to National
                    legislation" until the investigation underway by the Bureau of Labor was completed and shed
                    more light on the question.115 "I don't like it,"
                    Samuel McCune Lindsay wrote Beveridge, "but., it was the best we could
                        do…".116 Although the resolution was worded to save the
                    senator's face, the import was unmistakable. "You have won out," Robert
                    W. De Forest congratulated Edgar Gardner Murphy.117 "The practical
                    effect of the resolution … is to bind the National Committee during the present session
                    of Congress to take no action in the matter of Federal legislation," Owen R. Lovejoy, the
                    committee's new secretary, wrote Murphy. The committee would confine its energies to
                    working at the state level pending completion of the investigation by the Bureau of Labor.118
            
            This setback was followed by another rebuff from the White House. Throughout the fall, Beveridge had
                    bombarded the President with letters urging him to come out in support of the national bill. The
                    individual states could not do the job, the senator repeated. "We cannot end this infamous
                    evil 
                  
                     114 Beveridge to Samuel McCune Lindsay, November 5, 1907, Beveridge
                            Papers; Beveridge to Gifford Pinchot, November 13, 1907, ibid.; Beveridge
                            to Isaac N. Seligman, November 14, 1907, ibid.; Beveridge to Theodore
                            Roosevelt, November 19, 1907, Roosevelt Papers.
                  
                     115 Minutes of the seventeenth meeting of the Board of Trustees of the
                            National Child Labor Committee, November 26, 1907, NCLC Papers. See also Owen R. Lovejoy to
                            Beveridge, November 27, 1907, Beveridge Papers.
                  
                     116 Samuel McCune Lindsay to Beveridge, November 27, 1907, Beveridge
                            Papers.
                  
                     117 Robert W. De Forest to Edgar Gardner Murphy, January 8, 1908,
                            Murphy Papers.
                  
                     118 Owen R. Lovejoy to Edgar Gardner Murphy, January 6, 1908, ibid.
                  
               
                     except by national action…". A national law
                    against child labor was, Beveridge wrote Roosevelt, "distinctly a part of your national
                    statesmanship. And it is in this national statesmanship that you are doing your greatest service to
                    our country and upon that national statesmanship your name will live in history." The time
                    was ripe. The newspaper and magazine exposures and the work of the National Child Labor Committee
                    had touched the public conscience. "NO legislation you could propose to Congress will be so
                    righteous, or anywhere near so popular as this measure." To endorse his
                    bill, the senator pleaded, "is wise statesmanship and it is good politics."119
            
            Beveridge's appeals failed to move the President. In his annual message of December, 1907,
                    Roosevelt urged the adoption of an inheritance and income tax, the national incorporation and
                    regulation of interstate businesses, the fixing of railroad rates on the basis of physical
                    valuation, the establishment of a postal savings bank, the limitation of labor injunctions, and the
                    extension of workmen's compensations and of the eight-hour day.120 But
                    he boggled at endorsing the national child labor bill. He questioned the extent of its popular
                    support, remained doubtful about its constitutionality, was skeptical of its effectiveness, and even
                    challenged the facts and figures about child labor that Beveridge had presented. If the states
                    refused to meet their responsibilities, the President warned, Congress would have to act. But before
                    doing this "it ought certainly enact model laws on the subject for the Territories under
                    its own immediate control."121
            
            Undaunted, Beveridge introduced his bill the first day of the session, His strategy remained as
                    before: to force the Senate to go on record by offering his bill as an amendment to the 
                        District of Columbia
                     bill when the District bill came before the Senate.122 Intimations
                    that he planned this move 
                  
                     119 Beveridge to Theodore Roosevelt, October 22, 28, November 4, 7,
                            11, 1907, Beveridge Papers.
                  
                     120 Roosevelt, State Papers, 410-88.
                  
                     121
                            Ibid., 438.
                  
                     122
                            Congressional Record, 60 Cong., 1 Sess., 168; Beveridge to Samuel McCune
                            Lindsay, November 30, 1907, Beveridge Papers; Beveridge to Florence Kelley, January 6, 1908,
                                ibid.; Beveridge to Norman Hapgood, January 8, 1908, ibid.; Beveridge to George H. Lorimer, January 11, 1908, ibid.;
                            Beveridge to Harry Van Hook, March 13, 1908, ibid.
                  
               
                     alarmed sponsors of the District bill. The National Child Labor
                    Committee appealed to him not to offer his bill as an amendment. "We are very
                    anxious," Owen R. Lovejoy wrote the senator, "that the 
                        District of Columbia
                     bill shall be acted upon promptly and … think it is a tactical error to
                    combine the two."123 A similar appeal came from the White House. To
                    offer the national child labor bill as an amendment, Roosevelt warned, would backfire and frighten
                    the Senate into shelving the District bill again. "The wise thing," the chief
                    executive admonished Beveridge, "is to get what is imperatively needed and can be had, and
                    not to throw it away in making what is certain to be an unsuccessful effort to get something else in
                        addition."124
            
            At first, Beveridge was adamant. The District of Coumbia bill, he replied to the secretary of the
                    National Child Labor Committee, "is for all practical purposes a mere fake."
                    Adoption of the District bill, he maintained, "instead of aiding the cause will delay it
                    for many years." While Congress waited for the states to follow its example, "the
                    murder of innocents will go on."125 Pressure from the White House,
                    however, brought him around. Although agreeing not to offer his bill as an amendment when the
                    District bill came up, the Hoosier lawmaker made no secret of his feelings. He supported the
                    District bill, he told the Senate, "not because it will effect anything of great
                    consequence, but because it is a step, however short, in the right direction…."
                    Although he doubted its efficacy as an example, Beveridge recognized that it was "at least
                    an affirmative moral action upon the part of the National Legislature." The fight for a
                    national law would go on. "Let no person deceive himself," he warned his fellow
                    senators. "This bill, applicable to the 
                        District of Columbia
                    , where the evil does not really exist, will not assuage the wrath of the American
                    people against what is the real infamy that has awakened the conscience of the nation; nor will it
                    in the remotest degree quiet that conscience.126
            
            
               
                  123 Owen R. Lovejoy to Beveridge, March 13, 1908, Beveridge Papers.
               
                  124 Theodore Roosevelt to Beveridge, March 30, 1908, Morison, Letters of Theodore Roosevelt, VI, 985.
               
                  125 Beveridge to Owen R. Lovejoy, March 14, 1908, Beveridge Papers.
               
                  126
                        Congressional Record, 60 Cong., 1 Sess., 5801.
            
            
            As his price for not offering his bill as an amendment, Beveridge obtained from Senator William
                    Dolliver of 
                        Iowa
                    , the chairman of the Senate Committee on Labor and Education, a promise that the
                    committee would take up the bill and make an early report for action by the Senate.127 Beveridge doubted if the committee would make a favorable report; but even if reported
                    "without recommendation" the bill would go on the calendar for Senate action.128 No report, however, was forthcoming. His hopes dashed, the Indiana senator
                    was furious.129 But there was nothing he could do. The time was not yet ripe, he
                    sadly concluded: "We will have to wait a while for more ammunition in the way of
                        facts."130
            
            Although the issue was dead for the time being, he had not fought in vain. Beveridge's
                    agitation of the question, the secretary of the National Child Labor Committee found, had prodded
                    Congress into swift approval of both the 
                        District of Columbia
                     child labor bill and the bill authorizing the investigation by the Bureau of Labor into
                    the working conditions of women and children. The publicity given his bill had awakened millions to
                    the plight of the working child. Even at the state level, gains were reported as opponents of the
                    bill hastened to forestall congressional action by improving state laws.131
                    Taking advantage of the increasing popular interest, the National Child Labor Committee launched a
                    new campaign in the South. Beveridge gave this effort his blessing. But he continued to insist that
                    the problem could be dealt with only by a national law. "It is the sheerest
                    folly," the Hoosier senator reiterated, "to waste the efforts of thousands of
                    people who favor ending this twentieth century child slavery 
                  
                     127
                            Ibid., 6785.
                  
                     128 Beveridge to Harriet Lake, May 12, 1908, Beveridge Papers.
                  
                     129 Beveridge to Frank P. Flint, October 10, 1908, ibid.
                  
                  
                     130 Beveridge to Oliver P. Smith, December 22, 1908, ibid.
                  
                  
                     131 Minutes of the fourteenth meeting of the Board of Trustees of the
                            National Child Labor Committee, January 29, 1907, NCLC Papers; Alexander J. McKelway to
                            Edgar Gardner Murphy, February 14, 1907, Murphy Papers; McKelway, "National Child
                            Labor Bill." For Beveridge's evaluation of the gains which resulted from
                            his agitation of the question, see Beveridge to Oliver P. Smith, December 22, 1908,
                            Reveridge Papers.
               
                     by dissipating them along the lines of state and local action
                    instead of concentrating them upon national action."132
            
            By 1914, most of the leaders of the child labor movement had come to this conclusion. Twenty-two
                    states still permitted children under fourteen to work in factories; twenty-eight allowed children
                    under sixteen to work more than eight hours a day; and twenty-three had failed to adopt adequate
                    restrictions upon night work. The gap between the more progressive states and the more backward ones
                    was growing wider, not narrower. Despite the opposition of many of its Southern members, the
                    National Child Labor Committee reversed its former reversal and again gave its support to a national
                    child labor law. The American Federation of Labor, the American Medical Association, the National
                    Consumers' League, and the Federal Council of Churches of Christ in 
                        America
                     joined in backing the committee's bill. Scant progress was made, however,
                    until the presidential election year of 1916. Hoping for the votes of the progressive-minded,
                    President Woodrow Wilson pushed the bill through Congress.133 In this moment of
                    triumph, the chief architect of the new law recalled how he had come to Washington ten years before
                    to work for the first national child labor bill. Senator Beveridge, Alexander J. McKelway declared,
                    "deserves to be remembered as the pioneer in the field of federal regulation" of
                    child labor.134
            
            Much has been written in recent years about the nature and significance of early twentieth-century
                    progressivism. An interpretation that has gained wide currency holds that progressivism was a
                    middle-class movement looking primarily to the protection and increase of individual economic
                        opportunity.135 This interpretation is not without substance. 
                  
                     132 Beveridge to John Lindon Smith, September 27, 1909, Beveridge
                            Papers.
                  
                     133 Bremner, From the Depths, 223-25; Arthur S.
                            Link, Woodrow Wilson and the Progressive Era, 1910-1917 (
                                New York
                            , 1954), 59, 226-27; Davidson, Child Labor Legislation in the
                                Southern Textile States, 249-63; Johnson, "Child Labor
                            Legislation," 437-41.
                  
                     134 Alexander J. McKelway, "Another Emancipation
                            Proclamation, the National Child Labor Law," The American Review of
                                Reviews, LIV (October, 1916), 424.
                  
                     135 The most persuasive statement of this point of view is found in
                            Richard Hofstadter, The Age of Reform: From Bryan to F.D.R. (
                                New York
                            , 1955).
               
                     There was this aspect of progressivism, and many of its most
                    articulate spokesmen did take as their hero "the little man on the make." But
                    there was another side to the movement too—and on that side can be traced the beginnings
                    of the modern welfare state. The advances made at the state level were striking. The years between
                    the turn of the century and America's entry into the first world war witnessed an
                    unprecedented expansion of social welfare legislation in the states: child labor laws, maximum-hour
                    laws for women, the first minimum-wage laws for women, and workmen's compensation laws.136
            
            Gains at the national level were less spectacular. There were, as Theodore Roosevelt explained,
                    "very many excellent men … sincerely opposed, on grounds that at least deserve
                    weighty consideration," to the entrance of the federal government into a sphere
                    traditionally reserved to the states.137 But the logic of events increasingly
                    overrode constitutional scruples. With the growth of industry on a nation-wide basis, the new
                    problems arising in its wake lay beyond the reach of the individual states. The national government,
                    many people believed, was the only agency that could meet the challenge. Therein lay the larger
                    significance of Beveridge's fight for a national child labor law. Its adoption, Arthur S.
                    Link observes, "marked a turning point in American constitutional history—the
                    use of the commerce power to justify almost any form of federal control over working conditions and
                    wages, questions hitherto regarded as being within the exclusive jurisdiction of the
                    states." The act passed in 1916 was "the first step toward a potentially
                    comprehensive national social and economic regulation under the commerce power."138
            
            That regulation became a reality under the New Deal.139 But the foundations had
                    been laid during the progressive era—and Albert J. Beveridge had played a key role in
                    preparing the ground. A line can be drawn from his pioneering 
                  
                     136 Link, American Epoch, 69-72.
                  
                     137 Theodore Roosevelt to Beveridge, November 12, 1908, Beveridge
                            Papers.
                  
                     138 Arthur S. Link, Wilson: The New Freedom (
                                Princeton
                            , 1956), 256.
                  
                     139 William E. Leuchtenburg, Franklin D. Roosevelt and
                                the New Deal (
                                New York
                            , 1963), 326-48.
               
                     efforts in behalf of a national child labor law, from his
                    demonstration of the inability of the states to deal with the problem, and even from his
                    constitutional arguments to the New Deal of the Democratic Roosevelt. The prevailing orthodoxy views
                    this development in terms of a liberal versus conservative dichotomy. But the Indiana senator looked
                    at the question from a different angle. His program was, he believed,
                    conservative—"the real and not the spurious kind." As Beveridge
                    explained it: "Real conservatism is common sense applied to human conditions; spurious
                    conservatism is a mad hostility to change."140
            
            
               
                  140 "The School and the Nation" Speech, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, November 10, 1906.
            
         
         
         
            Canalling in the Whitewater Valley
            
                    Paul Fatout
                    ∗
                
            Among internal improvements enthusiasts of Indiana's young statehood, none were more ardent
                    and persistent than canal advocates of the southeast. Here the East and West forks of the Whitewater
                    River, after flowing through the counties of 
                  Randolph, Wayne, Fayette
               , Union, and 
                        Franklin
                    , came together at 
                        Brookville
                    , Indiana, and then traversed the lower half of 
                        Franklin County
                    , the northeast corner of 
                        Dearborn
                    , a few miles of the state of 
                        Ohio
                    , and the southeast section of 
                        Dearborn
                     before reaching the Ohio River at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Indiana. Having attracted settlers since the turn of the century, the long valley was
                    a rich farming region that was a liberal producer by 1816. By 1825, the population of these six
                    Whitewater counties was about one fourth of the total for all of Indiana.1
                    Eyeing the local scene and the state generally, the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Enquirer and Indiana Telegraph began its career on February 5, 1819, with a
                    glowing "Prospectus": 
                        Gifted by the munificence of Heaven with a delightful climate, and a soil rivaling in
                            fertility the loam of the Nile, and encompassing within her bosom an industrious and
                            enterprising population, ambitious of every laudable pursuit, and emulous of every virtuous
                            and patriotic achievement; she bids fair, under the auspices of a well conducted Press, and
                            a wise administration of her government, to vie ere long, in strength, intelligence and
                            resources, with the first Agricultural States in our Union.
                    A premature overstatement, that rhapsody was yet symptomatic of youthful Hoosier hope,
                    vigor, and promise.
            The chief drawback in the southeast was poor transportation. 
                        Cincinnati
                     was the principal market, but Whitewater farmers could send their products to town only
                    by laborious haulage over miserable roads. En route to the 
                        Ohio
                     city from 
                        Richmond
                    , about sixty-five miles, or from 
                        Brookville
                    , forty-three miles, a four-horse wagon bumped and lurched for 
                  
                     ∗ Paul Fatout is professor of English at Purdue University, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 See John Scott, The Indiana Gazeteer or Topographical
                                Dictionary, reprinted from the 1826 edition, [ed. Gayle Thornbrough], (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XVIII, No. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1964), 33, 58, 62, 66, 113, 120.
               
                    
                    
                  
                            Whitewater Valley
                        
                  Reproduced from Bernhard Knollenberg, Pioneer Sketches of the Upper Whitewater
                                Valley, Quaker Stronghold of the West (Indiana Historical Society Publications,
                            Vol. XV, No. 1; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1945), [1], with the permission of the Indiana Historical Society.
               
                     several days, and freightage was $10 a ton or more.
                    Foodstuffs and other necessities came into the valley by the same hard method. Cattle and hogs,
                    herded by drovers, plodded on foot, lost weight and value on the way, mired down, died. Sorely
                    needed was a better highway to tap the agricultural wealth of this Whitewater country.2
            
            One of the earliest improvement proposals, if not the first, came from James Brown Ray, 
                        Brookville
                     lawyer and member of the Indiana Senate, in 1822. He suggested that a canal be cut
                    along the Whitewater River from 
                        Brookville
                     to the 
                        Ohio
                     at or near 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . A correspondent who signed himself "A Citizen" heartily endorsed the
                    idea in two long letters to the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Enquirer. "I have for twelve months past", said he, 
                        had my eye on the White Water … I have passed up and down on its margin, the major
                            part of twenty times, and as far as I have been able to judge by ocular survey …
                            the extent of it which is even now navigable at its lowest stage, and the eligibility of its
                            marginal grounds for canalling … I am more and more convinced … that
                            one hundred thousand dollars, if economically applied, would accomplish the work.3
                  
                    He recommended that the legislature appropriate $50,000 from the 3 per cent fund
                    and raise the remainder by a state lottery.
            The 3 per cent fund was a dubious quantity; a lottery was unreliable, as a previous trial of the
                    device had shown in the unsuccessful attempt to build an Ohio Falls canal in
                        1819.4 Furthermore, the estimate of $100,000 for a canal from 
                        Brookville
                     to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     was far too low. Like many another canal man, "Citizen" was deluded
                    by wishful thinking; the ultimate cost was more than six times that figure. His easy confidence did
                    not go unchallenged. In the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Gazette a letter-writer named "
                        Franklin
                    " analyzed the canal proposal in a manner both serious and ironical: 
                        A spirit of enterprise doubtless is stamped on the infant institutions of this young state.
                            But the two questions that meet us … is first, is it practicable? And secondly,
                            is this the proper period to accomplish SO great an object? Is there no want of water in
                            that small stream … or are there no want of funds that would stop the prosecution
                            of the project….
                        
                     
                        2 On early transportation, see Luther M. Feeger, "Our
                                History Scrapbook," 
                                    Richmond
                                
                                Palladium-Item and Sun-Telegram, April 22, 1953.
                     
                        3
                                
                                    Brookville
                                
                                Enquirer, November 22, 1822.
                     
                        4 On the 3 per cent fund and the state lottery, see Paul Fatout,
                                "Canal Agitation at Ohio Falls," Indiana Magazine of History, LVII (December, 1961), 296, 303, 304.
                  
                        
                        And what if the White water canal company would withhold their navigation
                            bill a session or two, to see if the rich state of Indiana would not join with the
                            representatives from the 
                                Ohio
                             state, and cut the proposed canal through the straits of Darien, connecting the
                            Atlantic with the Pacific Ocean?
                        Are all the beautifull [sic] rivers that meander through this state, to lie
                            neglected, and White Water creek be made navigable, by employing the three per cent
                            stock—or is the little sum of fifty thousand dollars to be squandered in that
                                project?5
                  
                    
                
            This sarcasm emphasized not only the sectional rivalry that attended all internal improving in
                    Indiana but also the need of money. As the abortive efforts at Ohio Falls had
                    demonstrated, canal construction called for five- and six-figure sums of ready cash that were
                    difficult to collect from farmers and merchants, however eager they were. Money was scarce in the
                    early 1820's, when the whole country wallowed in the slough of a serious depression.
                    Governor William Hendricks, reminding the legislature in 1822 that nation-wide hard times had
                    "put the balance of trade largely against the western country, and produced general and
                    individual distress," cautioned against appropriating borrowed money for improvements:
                    "to these objects, great as they are, the fostering hand of government cannot be extended,
                    while its finances are embarrassed by a state debt."6
            
            For the time being, then, the Whitewater Canal remained merely a hope. According to local historians,
                    in 1822 or 1823 delegates from six southeastern counties met at 
                        Harrison
                    , on the state line above 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , to discuss the feasibility of a canal; furthermore that the line was surveyed in
                        1824.7 No convincing evidence indicates that either meeting or survey
                    occurred at any of those times. Nevertheless, events in the making gave the cause impetus. When a
                    business revival in 1823 started the upswing that ended in the next depression fourteen years later,
                    times were more favorable to expensive projects. From the outset, Whitewater improvements advocates
                    were preponderantly in favor of a canal rather than any other form of highway, but that bias is not
                    surprising. They were only reflecting a view that was about to become overwhelmingly persuasive in
                    the Middle West.
            
               
                  5
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Gazette, November 9, 1822.
               
                  6 Indiana, House Journal (1822-1823), 37, 38.
               
                  7 Alfred A. Smith, "The Whitewater Canal," 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal, April 23, 1899; Luther M. Feeger, "Our History
                        Scrapbook," 
                            Richmond
                        
                        Palladium-Item and Sun-Telegram, April 23, 1963.
            
            
            American canal fervor rested on a long series of examples reaching back into history as far as the
                    canals of ancient 
                        China
                     and 
                        Egypt
                    . Cognizant also of the famous seventeenth-century French channel of Languedoc, our
                    waterways men were likewise influenced by the canals of Holland and particularly by those of 
                        England
                    . The network of Britain, constructed during a surge of canal mania in the late
                    eighteenth century, was compact and serviceable, a seductive model for the 
                        United States
                    . In the first quarter of the nineteenth century, stock of successful British canals
                    sold for thousands of pounds and paid large dividends, the while a number of others, conveniently
                    ignored by propagandists, were unproductive failures that lost money for stockholders.8 Citizens of 
                        New York
                    , memorializing their legislature on behalf of a canal across the state, cited the
                    Languedoc, Dutch canals and British as strong arguments. The eventual result was Governor De Witt
                    Clinton's "Grand Canal," better known as the Erie, of 363 miles between 
                        Albany
                     and 
                        Buffalo
                    : a work exerting such potent influence on internal improvements in the 
                        United States
                     that canal sentiment predominated for decades. Begun in 1817, Clinton's
                    project was making headway, fifteen miles between 
                        Rome
                     and 
                        Utica
                     having been opened with appropriate ceremonies in 1819; in 1823 another section, from 
                        Utica
                     to 
                        Rochester
                    , was finished and the first canal boat entered the Hudson River.
                    Indiana papers kept readers informed of progress on the Erie. Items like that of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Gazette, noting "the great trade which is prosecuted upon the canals of 
                        New York
                    " and stating that in less than a month tolls at 
                        Albany
                     "amounted to $17,737.71,"9 impressed
                    Hoosier minds.
            The allure of waterways was so strong that it obscured a newfangled device, the railroad, lurking in
                    the background as the future nemesis of canalling. In the 1820's this unfamiliar
                    contraption seemed too experimental to be taken seriously. Yet the first American treatise on the
                    subject, John Stevens' Documents Tending to Prove the Superior Advantages of
                        Rail-Ways and Steam-Carriages over Canal
                    
                  
                     8 Adam W. Kirkaldy and Alfred Dudley Evans, The History
                                and Economics of Transport (
                                London
                            , 1915), 24-25; J. H. Clapham, An Economic History of Modern
                                Britain (3 vols., 
                        Cambridge,
                                    England
                     , 1926-1938), I, 80-81; George
                            Cadbury and S. P. Dobbs, Canals and Inland Waterways (
                                London
                            , 1929), 19; The Gentleman's Magazine, XCIV (
                                London
                            , December, 1824), 575.
                  
                     9
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, July 27, 1824.
               
                    
                    Navigation, had been published in 
                        New York
                     in 1812. Arguing that a railroad cost much less than a canal to build and maintain and
                    that it was free from the interruptions of locks, Stevens advocated a rail line from Lake Erie to 
                        Albany
                    . Trying to convert the 
                        New York
                     canal party, he wrote a remarkably prophetic letter to Governor Clinton in 1812:
                    "The more I reflect on the plan I have proposed, the more thorough is my conviction, not
                    merely of its practicability, but that it must eventually supersede every other mode of conveyance,
                    where the nature of the country will admit of its introduction."10
            
            The governor, likewise Robert Livingston and Gouverneur Morris, all with their hearts set on a canal,
                    listened only perfunctorily. Indeed, when Stevens predicted rail speeds of a hundred miles an hour,
                    they probably shrugged him off as an unbalanced visionary. Had they been attentive enough to build
                    Clinton's railroad rather than to dig Clinton's ditch, the example might have been
                    more beneficial to the economic health of Indiana and other states.
            In 
                        England
                    , Thomas Gray's Observations on a General Iron Rail-Way,
                    first published in 1821 in 
                        London
                    , went through five editions in five years. George Stephenson had built his first
                    locomotive in 1814, established a locomotive factory ten years later, and was at the throttle when
                    the first train rattled over the Stockton and Darlington line in 1825. The British canal system was
                    already doomed, although it was to enjoy about another ten years of grace before railroads began to
                    take over. Thereafter, to stave off collapse, canal men fought a long rearguard action, a procedure
                    that would be repeated by their American imitators?11 The irony was 
                  
                     10 John Stevens to De Witt Clinton, February 24, 1812, John Stevens,
                                Documents Tending To Prove the Superior Advantages of Rail-Ways and
                                Steam-Carriages over Canal Navigation, reprinted from the 1812 edition (
                                Boston
                            , 1936), 15.
                  
                     11 On Stephenson and his locomotives, see L. T. C. Bolt, George and Robert Stephenson (
                                London
                            , 1960), 50-58, 81-86; André Janin, 
                        
                                    Fulton
                                , Georges et Robert Stephenson (
                                Paris
                            , 1861), 246-51, 283-89; Georg Stephenson geschildert in seinem
                                Leben und Wirken als Mensch und Erfinder …, Vol. I, Biographien berühmter Erfinder und Entdecker der Neuzeit (Stuttgart,
                            1860), 94-108, 182-97; John Francis, A History of the English Railway: Its
                                Social Relations and Revelations, 1820-1845 (2 vols., 
                                London
                            , 1851), I, 52-55. On the conflict between canals and railroads, see Henry
                            Alexander Glass, Three Lectures on Roads and Road Makers (
                                London
                            , 1864), passim; Clapham, Economic History of
                                Modern Britain, I, 396-99.
               
                     that in the Midwest of the 
                        United States
                     canal enthusiasm reached its peak only when canals were on the verge of becoming
                    obsolescent both abroad and at home.
            As Clinton's big ditch inched along, other states, apprehensive that 
                        New York
                     was about to monopolize trade, rumbled with disquieting tremors and bestirred
                    themselves. In 1824 Pennsylvania appointed a Board of Commissioners to Promote Internal
                    Improvements. The following year this body issued a rousing manifesto: 
                        Internal improvements … have the testimony of the civilized world in their
                            favour—and their effects upon the prosperity and happiness of the people of every
                            nation in which they exist, are in full proof. We can appeal to the experience of Great
                            Britain, of Holland, of 
                                France
                            , and of 
                                China
                            , on the subject of canals generally, and to that of 
                                New York
                            , in her two great canalsd ases which are irresistibly convincing on this
                                subject.12
                  
                    So convincing were these examples that, recklessly disregarding the colossal labor and
                    expense of cutting channels through mountains, Pennsylvania in 1826 authorized a vast program of
                    canalling. This complicated system, involving many locks, stage coaches, inclined planes, and
                    sectional canal boats transported on flat cars, was so costly that it bankrupted the state within
                    the next fifteen years and left it out of pocket many millions of dollars.18
            
            In 
                        Ohio
                    , James Geddes, an engineer borrowed from 
                        New York
                    , reported in 1823 on his survey of a canal route between Lake Erie and the
                        Ohio River. In 1825 the 
                        Ohio
                     legislature passed a comprehensive act for the improvement of the state by means of
                    navigable canals.14 This system, almost as disastrous as
                    Pennsylvania's, saddled 
                        Ohio
                     with a heavy debt that would not be thrown off until 1903. At the time, however, the
                    supposedly progressive actions of other states made Hoosiers restless. To the great distress of
                    forward-looking citizens Indiana had no legislative improvements 
                  
                     12
                            Commission for Promotion of Internal Improvements in PennsyG vania (n.p.,
                            1825), 1.
                  
                     13 Harold G. Moulton, Waterways Versus Railways (
                                New York
                            , 1912), 439-40.
                  
                     14 See Public Documents Concerning the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Canals Which Are To Connect Lake Erie with the Ohio
                                River
                      …, comp. John Kilbourn (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1832). Most of this collection was originally compiled and
                            published by Kilbourn in 1828 in a weekly newspaper, Civil Engineer and Herald
                                of Internal Improvement, printed at 
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     .
               
                     acts, no plans, no reports on surveys, and not one official
                    canal commissioner she could call her own. "While we see," said the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    
                    Indiana Register, 
                        in every part of this vast republic, the men of talents and influence exerting themselves in
                            improving their states, why should the people of this growing state look silently on, while
                            her sister states are increasing in wealth and population? … Our legislatures
                            meet, and instead of acting on more important subjects, the members content themselves by
                            passing laws to curtail constables' fees, or altering old and laying off new state
                                roads.15
                  
                    Even those new roads, the Register might have added, were largely paper
                    projects, most of which had not been built. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Gazette, publicizing the large appropriations for internal improvements in 
                        New York
                    , observed: 
                        By the above it appears clearly to us that Indiana, although an infant state, ought not to be
                            left to pursue her former schemes of individual and local interest, but that she is called
                            on with the voice of the trumpet to awaken from her lathergic [sic]
                            slumbers and prove to the nation that her sons have not lost the spirit of enterprize.16
                  
                    
            
            As those remarks suggest, Indiana sentiment was veering toward the concept of a co-ordinated system
                    of internal improvements, in which canals would play a prominent part. Yet Whitewater advocates were
                    ready to approve of a state system only if assured that their ditch would be a major part of the
                    plan. Southeastern hopes rose when, on July 4, 1825, ceremonies at Licking Summit, 
                        Ohio
                    , inaugurated the cutting of the 
                        Ohio
                     and Erie Canal from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to Maumee Bay. Governor Clinton attended in person. In a ritual, accompanied by
                    speeches, two shovels passed through several hands and reached Governor Jeremiah Morrow of 
                        Ohio
                     and Governor Clinton who dug together. Then cheers arose from ten thousand people while
                    everybody who could lay hands on a shovel furiously attacked the earth. The Chillicothe Blues and
                    the Cincinnati Hussars and Guards paraded, artillery boomed, and one thousand diners banqueted in a
                    grove. The thirteen formal toasts—a standard number symbolizing the thirteen original
                    states—pledged among others: George Washington; the President of the 
                        United States
                    ; Governor Clinton; Henry Clay; 
                        New York State
                    ; Simon Bolivar; and 
                  
                     15
                            
                                Charlestown
                            
                            Indiana Intelligencer and Farmer's Friend, January 8, 1826,
                            reprint of an article from the 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Indiana Register.
                  
                  
                     16
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Gazette, May 17, 1825.
               
                     "The fair sex of our country—in prosperity
                    the partners of our joys, and in adversity our greatest solace." As usual, volunteer toasts
                    followed, eleven of them, pledging Bolivar again, 
                        New York
                     State again, the blessings of republican government, and so forth.17 Canal celebrations being decidedly moist, repetition was a boon to the exuberant banqueter.
                    In retrospect (when one considers later frustration and defeat), the enthusiasm of these ceremonial
                    affairs, their high hopes, and overflowing spirits, often apparent on similar occasions in Indiana,
                    are tinged with pathos.
            Among interested spectators who managed to shake hands with the famous 
                        New York
                     visitor at Licking Summit was an eighteen-year-old rodman in the engineering corps
                    named Jesse L. Williams. A little over ten years later he became the chief engineer of
                    Indiana's improvements system.
            At 
                  Middletown, Ohio
               , on July 19, similar ceremonies began the 
                        Dayton
                     and 
                        Cincinnati Canal
                     (known as the 
                        Miami
                    ), a new note being struck by the circumstance that the "earth was removed in
                    wheelbarrows constructed for the occasion."18 Between the two
                    celebrations Clinton and Morrow visited 
                        Louisville
                    ; on their return up the 
                        Ohio
                     they paused briefly at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , Indiana. Townsmen turned out to cluster around the steamboat landing, where A. Lane
                    Espy delivered an address of welcome; then followed a parade, artillery salutes, and a dinner for
                    the celebrated guest and his party. The eighth toast pledged "attachment to that system of
                    Internal Improvement, projected and patronized by our distinguished guest, Gov.
                        Clinton."19
            
            Attachment to a state system was problematical in that part of Indiana, but the mere presence of so
                    stalwart a canal advocate as the 
                        New York
                     governor stimulated a flurry among Whitewater men. The 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    
                    Palladium remarked that a canal in southeastern Indiana should be viewed as 
                        the first step towards the connection of the upper part of the Wabash
                            river and the Lake, through the Maumee with the Ohio river.
                            Those who have traversed the country from this to 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , represent 
                        
                           17 "Commencement of the 
                                        Ohio
                                     Canal at the Licking Summit," reprinted from an 1825 pamphlet,
                                        
                              
                                            Ohio
                                         Archaeological and Historical Publications, XXXIV (January,
                                    1925), 92-94.
                        
                           18
                                    
                                        Cincinnati
                                    
                                    Liberty Hall and Cincinnati Gazette, July 26, 1825.
                        
                           19
                                    
                                        Lawrenceburg
                                    
                                    Palladium, July 22, 1825.
                     
                             it as highly favorable for canalling—and a
                            work so important will surely not remain long neglected. Let us then have the credit of
                            making the first effort, in so noble and laudable an undertaking.20
                  
                    
            
            As if inspired by the visit of Clinton, canal delegates from 
                        Fayette
                    , Union, 
                        Franklin
                    , and 
                        Dearborn
                     counties met at 
                  Harrison, Ohio
               , on August 13. They resolved: that a canal from the
                        Ohio River at or near 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     be constructed up the Whitewater Valley; that eight commissioners be appointed to
                    solicit funds for surveying, locating, and estimating cost and also to employ an engineer to survey
                    a route to the junction of the St. Mary's and 
                        St. Joseph
                    's rivers near 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ; and that these commissioners should consider the probable method of completing the
                    canal and whether the necessary money could be obtained. Financial uncertainty was evidently of
                    minor concern, for the delegates concluded: "there scarcely exists a doubt of the
                    Practicability of making a canal from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to the 
                        Ohio
                    , and that a very fair prospect exists of obtaining the means of performing the work
                    from eastern capitalists."21 They met again at 
                        Brookville
                     on August 29, discussed the difficulty of finding a competent engineer, and resolved to
                    petition the legislature for a canal company charter.
            By the time the tenth session of the Indiana General Assembly convened in December, 1825, work on 
                        Ohio
                     canals was moving ahead, and the full line of the Erie had been opened with a
                    tremendous two months' fanfare at all ports from Buffalo to 
                        New York City
                    : field pieces banging at mile intervals, triumphal arches, huzzahs, lush oratory,
                    steamers towing canal boats down the Hudson, odes, songs, toasts innumerable, a delirium the like of
                    which had never been seen before and would not be again. In his message to Hoosier legislators
                    Governor James Brown Ray, although at heart a more devoted railroad man than canaller, cited
                    "the great artificial channel in 
                        New York
                    , which the thunder of a thousand pieces of artillery has just announced
                    finished," mentioned the 
                        Ohio
                     canals under construction, and remarked upon 
                        a warm solicitude … manifested by the citizens of the eastern part of the state,
                            for the construction of a canal from Lawrenceburgh … to 
                        
                           20
                                    Ibid., July 29, 1825.
                        
                           21
                                    Ibid., August 19, 1826. This article was reprinted in the 
                                        Brookville
                                    
                                    Enquirer, August 30, 1825, and in the 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    
                                    National Republican and 
                                            Ohio
                                         Political Register, August 26, 1826.
                     
                            
                            
                                Fort Wayne
                            . They have already taken steps to procure a survey of the route, and it is
                            understood have received assurances … that the funds necessary to complete the
                            work, can be procured from some of the eastern cities, so soon as a charter of incorporation
                            sufficiently liberal in its provisions can be procured from the Legislature…. As
                            it is understood that this project has no design upon the public purse, and as the
                            completion of the work will be of great and unquestionable utility, it is believed that no
                            objection will be urged against granting a charter, as liberal in its principles as may be
                            consistent with the policy, constitution and laws of the state. Our state pride should
                            incline us to give an impulse to designs of this character, so eminently calculated to give
                            us that standing in the Union to which we aspire.22
                  
                    
                
            Lawmakers were agreeable. Apparently they seldom objected to granting a charter to any organization
                    that professed to be a company. On January 21, 1826, the legislature legalized the Whitewater Canal
                    Company; the charter provided for a capital stock of forty thousand shares at $25 each,
                    authorized a board of seven directors (to be elected annually by stockholders) to transact all
                    business of the company, and permitted the company to receive land or money from the 
                        United States
                     government or from any other state. It was stipulated, on penalty of nullification of
                    the act, that the company either commence the canal within two years after incorporation or
                    "give to the legislature satisfactory evidence of their intention to prosecute and complete
                    the said canal…." The state reserved the right to purchase one fourth of the
                    stock and to buy the canal in 1860.23
            
            Supplementing the promise implied by canal company incorporation and raising southeastern hopes, a 
                        United States
                     Senate resolution of January 10, 1826, ordered surveys of a number of Indiana canal
                        routes.24 According to the chief of the 
                        United States
                     Engineers, the purpose of one of the surveys was to "ascertain the
                    practicability of uniting, by canals, the waters of the rivers St. Mary's, 
                        St. Joseph
                    's and the 
                        Wabash
                    , with the Ohio river through the valley of White
                        Water."25 This encouragement was enough to set off celebrations in 
                        Brookville
                     and 
                        Connersville
                    . At the latter place a toast to Governor Ray as a man "with a mind bold, 
                  
                     22 Indiana, House Journal (1826-1826), 35, 38.
                  
                     23 Indiana, Laws (1825-1826), 29-36.
                  
                     24
                            Senate Journal, 19 Cong., 1 Sess., 86.
                  
                     25 Quoted in Scott, Zndiana Gazeteer, 39.
               
                     energetic, enterprising and decisive,"26 was received in dead silence, perhaps because many people believed the governor to be
                    eccentric if not unhinged. When he harped upon 
                        Indianapolis
                     as a great future railroad center, listeners wrote off such views as the dithering of a
                    visionary; yet, considering that 
                        Indianapolis
                     became a great railroad center, Ray was less unbalanced than his critics. To the
                    unimaginative the farsighted seem mad.
            By the first of July, James Shriver, heading a corps of 
                        United States
                     Engineers, had arrived in the Whitewater Valley and had conferred with canal company
                    officials. A week later the survey began, but it was only partially completed. On record is a letter
                    from Governor Ray to Shriver suggesting that the engineer begin his surveys in the northern part of
                    the state. At the same time that Whitewater men agitated for a canal, strong voices in the north
                    urged a channel to unite the Maumee and Wabash rivers, a project that evolved
                    into the long 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal between 
                        Toledo
                     and 
                        Evansville
                    . The Maumee-Wabash ditch had powerful supporters, one of the most formidable being John
                    Tipton, of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , a tough Indian fighter, tough politician, shrewd entrepreneur, and dogged opponent.
                    Perhaps Governor Ray was yielding to political pressure when he said to Shriver: 
                        As for my own part I have no special predilections in favour of either of the contemplated
                            canals…. But whilst I express this opinion as to the general utility of both
                            projects, I cannot with candour withhold from you my belief that the 
                                Wabash
                             canal is more completely within the present means and resources of the State
                            than the Whitewater canal….
                        As there is a company incorporated to devise ways & means for the Whitewater canal, I
                            would respectfully submit to your consideration the propriety of progressing in that work as
                            you have commenced, until you ascertain the practicability or
                            impracticability of the project, and when that is done, leave it for the present season, and
                            repair to the 
                                Wabash
                             country to commence operations there.27
                  
                    
            
            Evidently Shriver did not need much time to estimate practicability, for within a few weeks he was in 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , 
                  
                     26
                            
                                Connersville
                            
                            Watchman, January 23, 1826.
                  
                     27 James Brown Ray to James Shriver, July 10, 1826, Dorothy Riker and
                            Gayle Thornbrough (eds.), Messages and Papers Relating to the Administration of
                                James Brown Ray, Governor of Indiana, 1825-1831 (Indiana Historical Collectiions,
                            Vol. XXXIV; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1954), 135.
               
                     where he died on August 8. Whatever his conclusions, however, he
                    apparently made no formal report. Governor Ray's message to the eleventh session of the
                    Indiana legislature mentioned only vaguely "a corps of Engineers," who
                    "entered the state during the last spring, with the view of operating here, with the
                    worthy, but now deceased Mr. Shriver at their head…. to enquire into
                    the practicability of the Whitewater canal"28 but
                    said nothing about the results of that inquiry. Shriver's successor, Major Asa Moore, also
                    died shortly thereafter, and for the time being the unfinished Whitewater survey remained that way.
            Furthermore, though incorporation of the Whitewater Canal Company seemed a herald of immediate
                    action, the usual difficulty of amassing sufficient capital by stock subscriptions upset the scheme.
                    In January, 1827, the legislature amended the charter, the chief change being an extension of the
                    time limit for starting construction to three years from the first Monday in February.29 This gesture was generous but useless. Those eastern capitalists supposed to have been
                    eager to buy stock either had been mythical or had become coy for no money to speak of came the
                    company's way and no shovel dug. Time ran out as southeastern canal affairs floundered and
                    stalled.
            Meanwhile, Indiana sentiment in favor of a co-ordinated system of internal improvements, state-wide
                    and state-owned, grew steadily stronger as for several years a noisy babble of opinion argued for
                    one kind and another of public highway. "Every citizen of 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     engaged on their canals," said a memorial of 
                        Cass County
                     citizens, "have created for themselves a name for industry and enterprize,
                    that we think laudable for us to imitate. God and nature have been bountiful to Indiana; will her
                    sons stand by idle without filling out the measure of her wealth, prosperity, and
                        happiness?"30 The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, taking a different tack, spoke up for turnpikes: 
                        In a local point of view, unless under rare and peculiar circumstances, the construction of
                            good and permanent roads will be found to be an object of the first importance. Canals, far more expensive, can- 
                        
                           28 Indiana, House Journal (1826-1827), 47.
                        
                           29 Indiana, Laws (1826-1827), 28-29.
                        
                           30
                                    
                                        Terre Haute
                                    
                                    Western Register, August 20, 1829.
                     
                             not be safely attempted until a country has become
                            densely populated and assumed a capacity capable of being rendered commercial to a suitable
                                extent.31
                  
                    In his message to the twelfth session of the Indiana legislature in December, 1827, Governor
                    Ray touched upon his favorite theme. "Railways," he said, "are rapidly
                    bearing away the palm of usefulness, from actual experiment, from all other commercial
                    facilities…. Their cost for the same distances, and constructed on the same natural
                    surface, would be … about half that of a canal."32
            
            Legislators unfortunately ignored the governor's hint that, if heeded, might have kept the
                    state out of a financial morass similar to that of Pennsylvania and 
                        Ohio
                    . A senate committee brushed aside the governor's tentative suggestion with the
                    brusque assurance that "every consideration of usefulness, practicability, durability, and
                    economy, point to canals, and render it obviously inexpedient to waste time upon the subject of
                        railways."33 Canal men were in the majority; they had the power
                    and, as they thought, the evidence. The already famous Erie exerted an irresistible magic. In its
                    first full year of operation, Clinton's waterway earned $687,976.68 in tolls,
                    and in the following years the annual income climbed steadily.34 These figures
                    were too dazzling to resist, and they caused mischief in the Middle West. Optimists, seduced by the
                    false analogy between 
                        New York
                     and Indiana, failed to see that the Erie Canal was unique because it funneled into the
                    port of 
                        New York City
                     the traffic of a larger and busier region than any other in the nation. The conspicuous
                    fact of the Erie's sensational income obscured other considerations, particularly the
                    important corollary that only the Erie could earn it.
            Congress gave Hoosier canalling a great boost when, on March 2, 1827, it granted to the state
                    alternate areas of public land along the line of the proposed 
                        Wabash
                    -Maumee 
                  
                     31
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, September 17, 1827.
                  
                     32 Indiana, House Journal (1827-1828), 20.
                  
                     33 Indiana, Senate Journd (1827-1828), 77.
                  
                     34 Noble E. Whitford, History of the Canal System of the
                                State of 
                                    New York
                                
                      … (2 vols., 
                                Albany
                            , N.Y., 1906), II, 1064-65. This work was published as the Supplement to the Annual Report of the State Engineer and Surveyor of the State of 
                                    New York
                                 for the Fiscal Year Ending September 30, 1905.
               
                     Canal.35 No action occurred in that locality
                    for over five years, but the land grant committed Indiana to a 
                        Wabash
                     canal and also made that project of major importance, to the discomfiture of Whitewater
                    men who believed they had been first in the field. Their cause received another blow when, after a
                    reconnaisance completed in early 1829, Colonel Howard Stansbury, of the 
                        United States
                     Engineers, reported to the legislature that the southeastern channel was
                        impracticable.36
            
            But hope persisted, even though for several years a Whitewater Canal was no nearer reality than it
                    had ever been. Its adherents considered appealing for aid from the federal government. David Guard,
                    state representative from 
                        Dearborn County
                    , wrote to John Tipton, who by this time had become a 
                        United States
                     senator: 
                        N. B. we are about to call on congress to aid us in survaying a Rout for a canal or Rail way
                            down white water—which you will pleas lend us your aid in the Senate and allso
                            som publick lands to aid us to carry the same into Efect—if Congress will not
                            give us any thing—the[y] surely will not charge us for asking—in as
                            much that all States are in the habbit of begging.37
                  
                    
            
            The attitude was engagingly frank; yet apparently there was no begging from Congress perhaps because
                    action in 
                        Indianapolis
                     made the appeal unnecessary. In 1834 the legislature, ordering surveys of a number of
                    lines, authorized commissioners 
                        to employ a competent engineer or engineers to survey and locate a route for a canal from or
                            near the mouth of Nettle creek in 
                                Wayne
                             county, thence down the valley of White Water, leaving the same at the most
                            convenient point, so as to terminate at 
                                Lawrenceburgh
                             in 
                                Dearborn
                             county, on the Ohio river.38
                  
                    In early June a corps of engineers headed by William Gooding and including Jesse L.
                    Williams, risen to the rank of assistant, began work in 
                        Wayne County
                    , then moved steadily down the valley. The 
                        Connersville
                    
                    Watchman hopefully reported: "When compared with most other Canals, the
                    excavation will 
                  
                     35
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, IV, 236.
                  
                     36 Indiana, House Journal (1829-1830), appendix, 8.
                  
                     37 David Guard to John Tipton, January 13, 1834, Glen A. Blackburn
                            (comp.), Nellie Armstrong Robertson and Dorothy Riker (eds.), The John Tipton
                                Papers (3 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXIV-XXVI; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1942), III, 12.
                  
                     38 Indiana, Laws (1833-1834), 52.
               
                     be very light…. If the locks be made of timber
                    … the whole expense of the Canal, it is thought, will not exceed between six and seven
                    thousand Dollars, per mile."39
            
            That was the sort of talk people wanted to hear. James Conwell of 
                        Brookville
                     demonstrated conclusively, on paper, that the Whitewater Canal was certain to be a
                    highly profitable work. He supposed that ten counties would do business on the canal and supposed
                    that there were 1,600 farms in each or 16,000 farms in all. These farms, he figured, would transport
                    enough flour, salt, pork, oats, and other products to pay in tolls annually an average of
                    $19 each or a grand total of $304,000. Subtracting $76,000 for
                    carriage, $50,666 for collection and repairs, and $60,000 for interest at 5
                    per cent on a loan of $1,200,000 left a net yearly income of $117,334.40 This neat calculation was one of many produced by superlative Indiana
                    supposers at the height of Hoosier canal mania. They had a genius for estimating grandiose profits
                    before ever a shovel had bitten into the sod.
            C. W. Hutchen, another 
                        Brookville
                     man, took issue vigorously. "This," said he, "is only the
                    commencement of a career of Improvements that will ultimately overwhelm the state with
                    debt." Pointing out that the Whitewater Canal would benefit only eight counties, he said
                    that the other sixty-one would all clamor for money, the result being a state debt of eighteen
                    millions requiring yearly interest of $900,000, "a pretty considerable sum for a
                    young state to pay annually for Nothing!" He maintained that the canal would be hard to
                    keep in repair and that it would not enhance property values as much as people thought. Farmers, he
                    believed, would do better to haul produce by wagon over good roads. Hutchen insisted that 
                        to go on in a blind career of Improvements without regard to our available resources, and
                            step by step descend the depths of debt, it will require all the advance on the labor of the
                            country to pay the INTEREST on the principal borrowed and expended on
                            objects of no intrinsic value.61
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     39
                            
                                Connersville
                            
                            Watchman, June 6, 1834.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, July 25, 1834. Conwell does not identify the ten
                            counties he supposed would do business on the canal. Presumably, they would be the five
                            through which the canal ran—
                        Randolph, Wayne, Franklin, Fayette
                     , and 
                                Dearborn
                            —and the adjacent counties of Henry, Union, Rush, 
                                Decatur
                            , and 
                                Ripley
                            .
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., September 19, 1834.
               
                     These were cogent arguments, correct in every particular except
                    that he slightly overestimated the state debt. But it was still large enough to confirm his gloomy
                    prediction.
            He returned to the controversy when, posing as the homely rustic, he said that, while toting
                    hoop-poles across a "holler," he had got to "thinkin'"
                    about the canal question: 
                        If I had plenty of money you would not catch me hoop-poling, neither cutting nor carrying.
                            But … as the matter stands, I had better perform all my own labor than to hire
                            any part of it, until, at least, I can do so without borrowing the money to pay my hands.
                            The reader may apply the foregoing to the canal question just as he pleases, and he will not
                            displease me.42
                  
                    Hutchen's reasoning got nowhere. Indicative of prevailing opinion, when he and
                    Conwell ran for a seat in the state legislature from 
                        Franklin County
                    , Conwell was one of two representatives elected and Hutchen received relatively few
                        votes.43
            
            In the light of strong canal sentiment in the southeast and elsewhere, it is worth noting that on the
                    Fourth of July, 1834, Indiana citizens had their first ride on a railroad. The legislature having
                    chartered eight railroad companies in 1832, the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     company built a mile-and-a-quarter line near 
                        Shelbyville
                    . It was a makeshift affair—crossties laid on logs, the cars pulled by
                    horses—but it was a railroad and a portent. By the summer of 1834 at least thirteen
                    Indiana rail lines had been incorporated and the following year the general assembly chartered four
                        more.44
            
            When the engineers in the Whitewater Valley completed their survey in December, 1834, they
                    recommended construction of the canal. The 76-mile line was difficult, a fall of 491 feet
                    necessitating 56 locks, 7 dams, and 12 aqueducts over 10 creeks and twice across the West Fork of
                    the Whitewater River. At several points hills forced the line into the river, which would have to be
                    enlarged on the opposite side. The 
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., October 10, 1834.
                  
                     43 Dorothy Riker and Gayle Thornbrough (comps.), Indiana
                                Election Returns, 1816-1851 (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XL; [
                                Indianapolis
                            ], 1960), 219.
                  
                     44 Indiana, Laws (1831-1832), 173-236; Indiana, Laws (1833-1834), 201-245; Indiana, Local Laws
                            (1834-1835), 16-24, 54-61, 66-73, 105-06; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Free Press, September 25, 1835; Jacob Piatt Dunn, Indiana and
                                Indianans … (5 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1919), I, 391; George S. Cottman, "Internal Improvements in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, III (December, 1907),
                        151.
               
                     engineering problems were considerable and the hazards great. By
                    comparison, on the famous Erie Canal a drop of 500 feet in its more than 300 miles between Lake Erie
                    and 
                        Troy
                     made so slight a current that Nathaniel Hawthorne called the waterway "an
                    interminable mud puddle."45 In the Whitewater Valley, however,
                    practically the same fall in 76 miles meant strong currents that in high water boded ill for the
                    banks and locks of a canal. The estimated cost was $1,142,126.15 or $14,908
                    per mile.46
            
            Because the Whitewater River between Harrison and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     flowed through 
                        Ohio
                     and because canals generally followed the courses of rivers, a section of the cut would
                    go through that state. This circumstance would undoubtedly require negotiation with the 
                        Ohio
                     legislature; in a joint resolution the Indiana legislature promptly requested
                    permission of the 
                        Ohio
                     General Assembly to encroach on some eight miles of Buckeye territory and appointed
                    Oliver H. Smith as emissary to the governor of 
                        Ohio
                    .47 For a while he had no success, 
                        Ohio
                     legislators being suspicious of excessive tolls and discriminatory practices likely to
                    be imposed by Indiana. After about a year of demurring and balking, 
                        Ohio
                     solons, having been assured of fair treatment and having been urged to approve by
                    enthusiastic citizens of 
                        Cincinnati
                    ,48 finally granted permission.
            In Indiana, state-wide discussion of improvements having become insistent, the twentieth session of
                    the legislature, on January 16, 1836, passed a comprehensive improvements act for a co-ordinated
                    system of canals, turnpikes, and railroads. The years of political maneuvering that had preceded
                    this measure, the backstairs vote-trading and compromise, the influence of sectional and party
                    interests, the tremendous outpouring of opinion by vox populi, the visionary estimates of prosperity
                    soon to arrive, the laying out of towns supposed to become flourishing cities overnight: all of that
                    makes a fascinating story. The mammoth bill listed eight projects to be built for a total
                    appropriation of $10,000,000, which 
                  
                     45 Nathaniel Hawthorne, "Sketches from Memory," Mosses from an Old Manse (
                                Boston
                            , 1882), 485.
                  
                     46 Indiana, Senate Journal (1834-1835), 240-51.
                  
                     47 Indiana, Local Laws (1834-1835) 272-73.
                  
                     48 See "White Water Canal Meeting," 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Daily Gazette, January 30, 1836.
               
                     fund commissioners were authorized to borrow on twenty-five-year
                    loans at 6 per cent. First on the agenda was the Whitewater Canal, as already located, and to be
                    continued 
                        above the National Road as far as may be practicable; also a connexion [sic] between the said White Water Canal and the Central Canal, by a canal, if
                            practicable, if not by a Rail Road, to commence at some point near the National Road, thence
                            to be continued to some suitable point on said Central Canal in 
                                Madison
                             or 
                                Delaware
                             counties….49
                  
                     For this work the appropriation was $1,400,000.
            The improvements act exhilarated Hoosiers. All over the state, from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , they celebrated: banquets, parades, orations, toasts drunk by the gallon. At 
                        Connersville
                    , the old town cannon became so heated that in the course of a nineteen-gun salute to
                    those state senators who had voted for the bill a premature explosion killed one man and mangled
                    three. Widespread high spirits inspired the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Indiana Democrat to a dithyrambic eulogy of "Our State": 
                        There is something in the Western country which infuses a new energy in every one. No one here can be idle. No one can dissipate their time and talents in worthless
                            pursuits and trivial amusements. All are busy—all are active—all are
                            industrious. Torpid indeed must be that man's feelings, slow must be the current of
                            his thoughts and insensible must he be, to every thing that is noble and praiseworthy, if he
                            is not urged on, by the exciting spirit which has seized every one.50
                  
                    Surely Hoosiers were not quite so grim, so averse to worthless pursuits and trivial
                    amusements as all that; yet at the moment the spirit of enterprise was indeed exciting and urgent.
            A vast bustle ensued. Descending from the clouds of glory trailing the celebrations, politicians set
                    in motion the ponderous machinery designed by the mammoth improvements bill. Governor Noah Noble
                    appointed a six-man Board of Internal Improvements that, at its first meeting in March, assigned a
                    project to each member and selected General Elisha Long of 
                        Brookville
                     to oversee construction of the Whitewater Canal. Later the board appointed Jesse L.
                    Williams principal engineer on canals and, in a lunatic spree of spending money it did not have,
                    hired a corps of other assistants. That circumstance was one of many symptomatic of the reckless
                    hysteria 
                  
                     49 Indiana, General Laws (1836-1836), 7.
                  
                     50
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Indiana Democrat, June 1, 1836.
               
                     now gripping Indiana as it had disturbed other states. The
                    board, playing the familiar numbers game of paper profits, also figured that by 1848 the estimated
                    income of $457,762 from all state works added to anticipated receipts from the proposed
                    distribution of surplus federal revenue should leave only a negligible difference between resources
                    and interest payments—a deficit that an increase of taxable property should handily
                        overcome.51
            
            For about eight months, those all-important state loans not having been negotiated, nothing of moment
                    happened in the southeast. Finally, in September, 1836, thirty miles of Whitewater Canal contracts
                    were let at 
                        Brookville
                    , and the town staged a ground-breaking ceremony: a marshal and assistant marshal on
                    horseback headed a procession of brass band, military companies, distinguished visitors, canal
                    commissioners and engineers, and citizens generally. Governor Noble delivered an oration, and the
                    Hon. Henry Wallace, former Governor James B. Ray, and the eminent Dr. Daniel Drake of 
                        Cincinnati
                     also spoke. At the traditional banquet the final toast was a poem composed by John
                    Finley, entitled "The Meeting of the Waters": 
                        There is not in this wide world a valley so sweet, As that vale where the branches of
                            Whitewater meet; Oh! the last picayune shall depart from my fob Ere the East or West Fork
                            shall relinquish the job.52
                  
                    The reference to the East Fork recognized efforts of canal men in 
                        Wayne County
                    , chiefly of 
                        Richmond
                    , to promote a ditch of 33¼ miles down the East Fork to intersect the West
                    Fork canal at 
                        Brookville
                    . Advocates of the 
                        Brookville
                     and 
                        Richmond
                     Canal had met several times from 1834 to 1836, but so far they had not reached the
                    stage of making surveys and raising money.
            "Indiana," exclaimed the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Indiana American, "has taken a bold stand …. her name is
                    hailed in every city in the Union as the proud star that will lead on to prosperity, and to
                    glory…. Proud Indiana! who can foretell thy 
                  
                     51 Logan Esarey, Internal Improvements in Early Indiana
                                (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. V, No. 2; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1912), 105; Report of State Board of Internal Improvements, December 17, 1836,
                            January 7, 1837, Indiana, House Documentary Journal (1836-1837).
                  
                     52 Quoted in Alfred A. Smith, "The Whitewater
                            Canal," 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, April 23, 1899.
               
                     destiny?"53 It was as well that the
                    editor put that optimism on record before anything happened to dim the brightness of the proud star.
                    Yet, considering that within two or three months of letting contracts some contractors actually
                    began digging between 
                        Brookville
                     and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , the rosy view may be forgiven. In his message to the twenty-first session of the
                    legislature, Governor Noble, remarking upon the channel "through the fertile valley of
                    White Water," serenely predicted: "From the large amount of surplus produce
                    exported from that densely populated district, the investment there will yield something for the
                    Treasury so soon as the navigation is open."54
            
            Within another year, however, the elaborate apparatus of the mammoth improvements system developed
                    alarming creaks and groans and even showed signs of breaking down. By the end of 1838 the state debt
                    was over $5,000,000; Jesse Williams figured that within another year the total would be
                    $7,000,000 and ultimately $23,000,000.55 The famous system
                    act of 1836 having failed to provide means for paying interest, it had to be paid out of the loans
                    themselves, a crippling procedure. Fund commissioners, requesting legislative enactment on this
                    point, observed: 
                        The payment of the interest on the money borrowed, in addition to the disadvantages that must
                            result from it on the score of economy, and its rapid increase of the public debt, will be
                            calculated seriously to affect the credit of the state, and must greatly increase the
                            difficulties in making advantageous loans.56
                  
                    The legislature making no move to modify this situation, affairs for the time being went
                    blithely on about as usual, fund commissioners negotiating large loans, some of them unwise, board
                    members letting contracts and overseeing a frenzied scratching-up of the earth at a dozen scattered
                    points over the state—and discovering that paper estimates were subject to revision
                    upward by the vagaries of nature, not to speak of the manipulations of thievish contractors. On the
                    Whitewater Canal work moved fast enough to stimulate a hope that the 
                        Brookville
                    -
                        Lawrenceburg
                     section might be 
                  
                     53
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, September 30, 1836.
                  
                     54 Indiana, Senate Journal (1836-1837), 11-12.
                  
                     55 Indiana, Documentary Journal (1838-1839), 310.
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., 93.
               
                     finished in another year; people talked of extending the ditch
                    to 
                        Hagerstown
                    , above the National Road.
            Meanwhile the instigators of the East Fork canal vigorously promoted. Having failed to add their
                    project to the state improvements system, they incorporated the 
                        Brookville
                     and 
                        Richmond
                     Canal Company in February, 1838: the capital stock was $500,000 and shares
                    were $50 each.57 When the company opened its books for subscriptions,
                    investors hesitated because the Whitewater Canal down the West Fork only ten to twenty miles away
                    looked like too strong a competitor. Nevertheless, 
                        Wayne
                    , Union, and 
                        Franklin
                     counties subscribed, or at least promised, $215,000, fifty thousand of that
                    coming from 
                        Richmond
                    , where zeal, if ardent, was still not compulsive enough to induce subscribers ever
                    fully to pay up.
            The company needed those thousands and about twice as much for a very expensive job. In the
                    33¼ miles of line a fall of 273 feet called for 2 guard locks, 31 lift locks, 5 dams, 2
                    aqueducts, and a number of bridges, culverts, and water weirs; the estimated cost was over
                    $15,000 per mile. But expense rarely calmed canal mania, which prospered on faith and a
                    firm devotion to installment buying: i. e., with a dribble of cash in hand—say
                    $25,000, which is about what the 
                        Richmond
                    -
                        Brookville
                     people had—the proper tactic was to begin a half-million-dollar job in the
                    hope that the remainder would miraculously appear from somewhere in time to meet subsequent
                    payments. That procedure was routine among canallers in Indiana. This time the company relied on the
                    opinion of Colonel Simpson Torbet, resident engineer, who had predicted that the canal was certain
                    to earn $33,250 a year. 
                        Richmond
                    , he said, "situated at the head of navigation, with its vast water power,
                    extensive capital, and enterprising inhabitants, might become the 
                        Pittsburgh
                     of Indiana…."58 With characteristic abandon,
                    the company asked for bids on practically the whole line at five different places. Eventually it
                    contracted for four sections and spent some $8,000 for excavating about a mile-and-a-half
                    channel near 
                        Fairfield
                     and 
                  
                     57 Indiana, Local Laws (1837-1838), 159-66. For the
                            story of the 
                                Richmond
                            -
                                Brookville
                             Canal, see James M. Miller, "The 
                                Richmond
                             and 
                                Brookville
                             Canal," Indiana Magazine of History, I (Fourth
                            Quarter, 1906), 189-194.
                  
                     58 Indiana, Documentary Journal (1840-1841),
                        364.
               
                     another mile-and-a-half one near 
                        Richmond
                    , which had to postpone its expectation of becoming a second 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . In late 1839 the project collapsed, along with Indiana's improvements system,
                    and was never revived.59
            
            Work on the Whitewater Canal moved along. W. S. Webb, an engineer with headquarters at 
                        Brookville
                    , jotted down notes indicating the high quality of construction. About cut stone locks
                    he wrote: "face to be neatly dressed with brush hammer. Headers 6′ long for
                    thicker courses, 5′ long for thinner, 2′ wide … 8′ apart
                    in the clear on every course.""60 Not all Indiana canals had
                    the benefit of stone, which was the canaller's preferred material. It was more costly than
                    wood but more permanent and less expensive to maintain; wooden locks that rotted, sagged, and leaked
                    required continual repair.
            On June 8, 1839, the Ben Franklin, first canal boat to make the trip from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , arrived in 
                        Brookville
                    . Joyful citizens went out to meet her, unhitched the mules, and towed her in by hand to
                    the accompaniment of lusty cheers and thunderous cannonading. She would have got there several weeks
                    sooner except for a mishap below: when frost went out of a clay hillside near Jamison Creek, several
                    hundred feet of earth, dropping into the channel, had to be scooped out. That occurrence was one of
                    those unforeseen contretemps that constantly plagued canalling and generally made the final cost
                    higher than estimators had figured.
            On June 9 the Niagara and Little Western arrived, and traffic in
                    freight and passengers got under way at once. S. Coffin advertised "the New and Superior
                    Canal Boat," Native, scheduled to leave 
                        Brookville
                     "every Monday, Wednesday and Friday at 61/2 o'clock A.M., and arrived
                    at 
                        Lawrenceburgh
                     the same day." Arrangements "to meet the line of Hacks" from
                    Harrison to 
                        Cincinnati
                     allowed commuters all the time they needed for business or shopping in the city. Then
                    they could catch the Native on one of her Tuesday, Thursday, or Saturday return
                        trips.61 By the end of the 
                  
                     59 Miller, "
                                Richmond
                             and 
                                Brookville
                             Canal"; Luther M. Feeger, "Our History Scrapbook," 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium-Item and Sun-Telegram, May 18. 20, 1953.
                  
                     60 Diary and notebook (November 5, 1838—January 30, 1840)
                            of W. S. Webb, an engineer on the Whitewater Canal (Archives Division, Indiana State
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     61
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, August 9, 1839.
               
                     year the port of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     had collected $606.39 in tolls. The monthly summary, from July to November,
                    1839, appears to be the first extant record of receipts from any public work in Indiana.62
            
            The Whitewater cut moved on above 
                        Brookville
                     toward Laurel, engineers doing a good job, especially on hammered stone locks, much
                    praised for their fine workmanship. "But we can see no means at present," said the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Indiana American in midsummer of 1839, 
                        to prevent the entire work on the Canal from being stopped in about 5 or 6 weeks. It will be
                            recollected that under the regulations of the modification law of last winter, there could
                            be only $270,000 expended on the White-Water Canal the present season. Of this
                            amount we understand that about $160,000 have already been paid out….
                            We are informed that the next estimate … in August, will require about
                            $90,000, leaving then a balance of $20,000, and the fiscal year is not
                            half gone. We presume the Acting Commissioner will retain sufficient … to
                            continue the operations on the bridges between this place and Lawrenceburgh, and if there be
                            not some regulations of which we are not advised, the operations above this place will have
                            to cease; or the contractors prosecute the work, and wait for their pay until after the
                            action of another Legislature. This, many of them are not able to do.63
                  
                    
            
            That was a canny forecast. Indiana had bogged down in a debt of over $10,000,000: loans
                    had been negotiated with unsound banks and fly-by-night firms that collapsed, with absconders, and
                    with creditors who had bought state bonds but failed to pay for them. How to meet interest payments
                    mounting toward the half-million mark was about to become an insoluble problem for the Hoosier
                    government; in the state treasury at the moment there was only $28,702.64 On August 16, 1839, the Board of Internal Improvements ordered, "That, with the
                    exception of the 
                        Wabash
                     Canal from 
                        Lafayette
                     to the state line, and the dams on other works yet to be preserved; the work at 
                        Lawrenceburgh
                     and the bridge at 
                        Harrison
                    ; the Public Works be immediately suspended…."65
                    The effect was like that of the five o'clock whistle: the shovel 
                  
                     62 Whitewater Canal Correspondence (Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     63
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, July 19, 1839.
                  
                     64 Indiana, Documentary Journal (1839-1840), 99; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Free Press, December 16, 1840.
                  
                     65 Indiana, Documentary Journal (1839-1840),
                        20.
               
                     left sticking in the bank of an unfinished ditch, the
                    wheelbarrow nearby, half-hewn timber lying helter-skelter, rock and earth piled in fields, fences
                    torn down, and the terrain cluttered by all the raw desolation of construction jobs. Of
                    approximately 1,300 miles of improvements authorized by the mammoth system bill, the state, at a
                    cost around $8,000,000, had completed about 190-200 miles; otherwise some 290 miles or so
                    of partly graded, partly dug canals, turnpikes, and railroads soon became a dreary spectacle of torn
                    earth overgrown by weeds and eroded by rain.66 So meager a showing was sad
                    recompense for the high hopes that had launched the great system.
            The board's suspension order meant the end of state construction on the Whitewater Canal to
                    the disgruntlement of citizens above 
                        Brookville
                    , who added their voices to the howls of protest and recrimination that arose all over
                    the state. The thirty miles completed from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     had been built at a cost of $664,665; additional work contracted for between 
                        Brookville
                     and 
                        Laurel
                     raised the total state outlay to $1,099,867.32. For the next several years
                    the finished section did a steady though not a booming business. Fragmentary records show that for
                    ten months of 1840, tolls at 
                        Brookville
                     were $604.26; for ten months of 1841, $1,027.44; for eight months
                    of 1842, $828.45. Total collections at all ports from July 1, 1839, to July 1, 1841, were
                        $2,820.701/2.67 These receipts were far below the calculations of
                    James Conwell, the optimistic forecaster who had "proved" that the canal when
                    finished should earn a net yearly income of $117,000.
            Nevertheless, Southeasterners still wanted their ditch. The legislature of 1840-1841 having invited
                    private companies to complete unfinished state works except for a few of the first class like the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, thirty-one men from 
                  Franklin, Fayette
               , and 
                        Wayne
                     counties petitioned for a charter. On January 20, 1842, the session incorporated the
                    White Water Valley Canal Company: capital stock of $500,000, the company obligated to
                    complete the canal to 
                        Cambridge City
                     within five years from March 1, the state transferring its right to the line from the
                        Ohio River to the 
                  
                     66 Indiana, House Documentary Journal (1841-1842),
                            72-73.
                  
                     67 Whitewater Canal Correspondence.
               
                     National Road yet reserving the privilege of buying the waterway
                    at any time after fifteen years from completion.68
            
            Their hopes undamaged by about twenty years of frustration, some fifteen hundred valley farmers,
                    mechanics, and businessmen dug down in their pockets to subscribe. "I have paid out for 10
                    thousand of the stock," said one, "& I think it is the best stock in the
                    world & I am not much in favor of stocks."69 By May the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Palladium reported that at a meeting in 
                        Connersville
                     "it was ascertained that $300,000 had already been subscribed, and
                    the belief confidently expressed that the remaining $100,000 would speedily be
                        taken."70 Thus hope flamed anew, as it always did when subscribers
                    stepped forward briskly, even though a good many contributed no hard cash but only promises to pay.
            On July 28, 1842, festive ceremonies at 
                        Cambridge City
                     inaugurated resumption of work. Nobody having had occasion to celebrate for several
                    years, the countryside responded with great good will. Ten thousand people were reported to have
                    swarmed into the little town; bands came from 
                        Connersville
                     and from 
                  Paris, Ohio
               ; and the Washington Grays, "a young but well
                    disciplined and good looking military company," arrived from 
                        Richmond
                    . Following the customary parade, Samuel W. Parker, orator of the day, and J. T. Elliott
                    dug the first earth, each liberally interpreting his assignment by filling a wheelbarrow and rolling
                    it away. Then a procession marched to a grove for "a bounteous and substantial
                    repast," after which the orator was just getting a good start when a downpour quenched
                    proceedings and, worse luck, prevented the drinking of toasts composed by a select committee.71
            
            Within the next three months the company spent on construction $16,476, more than half
                    that amount being paid to contractors in the form of stock and transferable certificates. 
                  
                     68 Indiana, Local Laws (1841-1842), 37-45.
                  
                     69 James Rariden to Allen Hamilton, March 8, 1844, Allen Hamilton
                            Collection (Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     70
                            
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, May 14, 1842. The "remaining
                            $100,000" implies a belief that capitalization was $400,000,
                            a figure that appeared in news stories. The act of incorporation, however, specifies a
                            capital stock of $500,000.
                  
                     71
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, August 2, 1842. See also 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, July 16, 1842.
               
                    
                    72 These expedients kept the work going; by 1843 boats were running to Laurel,
                    about fifteen miles above 
                        Brookville
                    .
            By that time, 
                        Ohio
                     having completed a twenty-five-mile channel between Harrison and 
                        Cincinnati
                    , a canal all the way to the Queen City made business improve. In a semiannual report on
                    January 1, 1845, the company reported $261,075.78 in stock subscriptions actually paid,
                    of which sum $250,256.77 had been expended on construction; tolls and water rents at 
                        Brookville
                    , Harrison, and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     were $5,862.50. That figure looked encouraging, but the company discovered
                    that the constant need of repairs all along the line took $4,773.51 for only temporary
                    patchwork that would stand up, it was hoped, until more funds were available.73
                    The financial ice seemed thin, but S. W. Parker confidently reported to the president and directors
                    that "the enterprise presents to its early and abiding friends good cause for
                    gratification—and the most flattering prospects to the holders of its stock."74 The flattering prospects looked less good when a subsequent company report in
                    August showed that expenditures had exceeded income by about $11,000.75 Hovering in the background was the perennial specter of the empty purse.
            Still, sanguine hopes appeared justified when the popular Native was the first boat
                    to reach 
                        Connersville
                     in June, 1845, construction having been carried on by the same familiar device of
                    paying laborers in company stock and company notes, the latter depreciating so fast that some
                    workmen refused them. Yet the ditch went on. In October of the same year the Belle of
                        Indiana was the first boat to 
                        Cambridge City
                    , the eleven miles between that place and 
                        Connersville
                     having been built by Henry Valette, of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , for $115,000 payable after ten years in company 7 per cent bonds. There was
                    an air of irregularity about this agreement because the interest rate was not legal in Indiana.
                    Whereupon Hoosier legislators agreeably regularized the transaction by enacting 
                  
                     72
                            Dailg Cincinnati Gazette, November 10, 1842, reprint of an article from
                            the 
                                Connersville
                            
                            Journal.
                  
                  
                     73
                            
                                Connersville
                            
                            Indiana Telegraph, January 1, 1845.
                  
                     74 Report to president and directors of the Whitewater Canal Company,
                            July 9, 1845, James Herron Papers (Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     75
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, August 1, 1845.
               
                     a law in January, 1845: "That all such bonds issued or
                    to be issued in accordance with the contract existing between said company, and said Valette, be and
                    they are hereby legalized."76 Nevertheless, this contract was to cause
                    trouble later.
            Completion of the line from 
                        Cambridge City
                     to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and to 
                        Cincinnati
                     twenty-five miles farther, produced a stimulating bustle—though not as much
                    action as potential business required. According to the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Indiana American:
                    
                        there is not more than half as many boats on the line as is necessary to carry off the
                            produce. The warehouses all along the line are full, and freights are high. The …
                            freight on wheat from 
                                Cambridge City
                             to 
                                Cincinnati
                             is 10¢ per bushel, and boats are clearing from $100 to
                            $140 per trip. … The number of Canal Boats on the White Water Canal is
                            only about 20 or 23. We have heard of two new ones … the "
                                Milton
                             Torch Light," and the "
                                Rochester
                             Gas Light"…. All the boats on the line now pass down
                            heavily loaded.77
                  
                    Probably the number of boats was not far from adequate. Unlike the Erie Canal, the
                    Whitewater was never jammed with traffic—a half dozen arrivals per day being about the
                    maximum for any port. Yet business seemed fairly brisk, to judge from daily reports in 
                        Cincinnati
                     papers on commerce via the Whitewater Canal. One day's record, showing
                    quantity and variety of commodities, listed receipts of 
                        19,125 feet of Lumber, 44 brls., 16 kegs Lard, 671 brls. Flour, 400 lbs. Furniture, 30 bu.
                            Potatoes, 9 brls. Butter, 49 pcs., 707 lbs. Merchandise, 143 bu. Beans, 118,263 lbs. Meat,
                            4320 bu. Wheat, 54 brls. Eggs, 1 roll, 209 lbs. Leather, 8 Hogs, 28 doz. Brooms, 174 bu.
                            Rye, 6 sks. Feathers, 3922 lbs. Ship Stuff, 255 brls. Pork.78
                  
                    
            
            Such shipments were respectable but not large for a rich valley. They might have been greater had not
                    a good many farmers continued to haul produce over those rough wagon roads probably in stubborn
                    protest against canal tolls considered too high. An indignant correspondent of the 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    
                    Political Beacon highlighted this point: 
                        We learn from the canal collector at this place, that the toll on a load of corn from New
                            Trenton in an open boat, was upwards of fourteen dollars—distance about
                            twenty-two miles. At that rate on 
                        
                           76 Indiana, Local Laws (1844-1845), 208.
                        
                           77
                                    
                                        Brookville
                                    
                                    Indiana American, November 7, 1845.
                        
                           78
                                    
                                        Cincinnati
                                    
                                    Daily Atlas, March 30, 1846.
                     
                             the Erie canal, the boat and load would not more than
                            pay the toll. This is one of the beauties of the Whitewater Valley Canal Company.79
                  
                    
            
            As a result of this partial boycott and a fluctuating traffic—on some days receipts were
                    scanty in 
                        Cincinnati
                    —canal business was not spectacularly profitable for the company. In a
                    general report published in July, 1846, the directors stated that tolls and water rents for the
                    first three years of company management amounted to $52,503.57, a modest return on a
                    large investment. And in August a freshet struck just when the canal, having been drained for over a
                    month in midsummer to make much needed repairs on the lower line, was getting into working order
                    again. A sudden rise in 
                        Duck Creek
                     swept away the wooden aqueduct there and caused other damage to the extent of some
                    $8,000 or more.80
            
            Passenger travel was a variable experience, agreeable to the carefree, painful to the prim, boring to
                    the impatient. The Rev. Benjamin Franklin, a Campbellite preacher, had a most distressing
                    twenty-hour voyage from 
                        Milton
                    , Indiana, to 
                        Cincinnati
                     aboard the Express Mail in late 1846. "Some twenty of
                    us", he wrote bitterly, 
                        are crowded into the small cabin of a canal boat, and of all the miserable stenches from
                            chewing, snuffing, smoking and spitting tobacco, we were ever compelled to witness, this is
                            the nearest beyond the possibility of exaggeration. But what is worse, if possible, the
                            company is almost entirely made up of Deists, whose mouths scarcely ever open without
                            pouring out the most shocking oaths we ever heard. And to augment the agony, we have on
                            board one of the most foolish old drunken wretches we ever saw. This old creature and an
                            honest-hearted, civil back-woods youth, are the subjects of all the jests and pranks of the
                            skeptics on board. All manner of foolery that can be invented is continually going on. A
                            good portion of the time, some one is sawing on an old fiddle, while others are whacking
                            down their cards, amid the most horrible profanity imaginable.81
                  
                    The evangelical voyager had a bad time. His temper did not improve when, having finished his
                    labors in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , he was marooned there because the canal had been abruptly 
                  
                     79 Letter from "Nous Verrons," 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Political Beacon, February 29, 1844.
                  
                     80 "General Report of the Condition and Business of the White
                            Water Valley Canal Company, July, 1846," broadside, James Herron Papers.
                  
                     81 Quoted in Joseph Franklin and J. A. Headington, The
                                Life and Times of Benjamin Franklin (St. Lonis, 1879), 172.
               
                     put out of action by the worst flood within the memory of the
                    oldest inhabitant of the Whitewater region.
            This flood rampaged down the valley on New Year's Day, 1847. It ravaged the canal by tearing
                    out aqueducts at Laurel, Williams Creek, and Symons Creek, breaching banks in many places all the
                    way to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , gutting deep channels around half a dozen feeder dams, and destroying abutments.
                    "This great work of the White Water Valley," lamented the 
                        Cambridge City
                    
                    Reveille, "is in a state of ruin!"82 The
                    canal very nearly was in that dismal state, being out of commission for six months and calling for
                    at least $70,000 to restore navigation.
            To get repair funds, the hard-pressed company appealed to the state for a loan of taxes paid in 
                        Wayne
                    , Henry, Rush, 
                        Fayette
                    , and 
                        Franklin
                     counties for five years, the company agreeing to cede the canal to the state if
                    interest and principal were not paid. The legislature passed an act to that effect, but Governor
                    James Whitcomb refused to sign it.88 His action was understandable in view of
                    the recent passage of the 
                        Butler
                     Bill—after Charles F. Butler, emissary of the holders of Indiana
                    bonds—that provided for a settlement of the state debt. The total debt, augmented by
                    unpaid interest for five years, amounted to about $17,000,000. Since 1842 Indiana, as a
                    defaulter, had been called hard names on both sides of the Atlantic: knave, thief, repudiator,
                    dead-beat, and swindler. Indiana bonds were about thirty cents on the dollar. By the compromise 
                        Butler
                     Bill, the state agreed to pay half the debt, the other half to be paid out of receipts
                    from the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, which became the property of the bondholders. Hence, in rejecting the
                    Whitewater appeal, the governor was no doubt showing a natural unwillingness to take on anything
                    that might become another embarrassing liability.
            In desperation, company directors then asked for loans from stockholders and well-wishers and offered
                    in return notes in denominations of $5 and $50 earning 6 per cent; 
                  
                     82
                            
                                Cambridge City
                            
                            Reveille, January 20, 1847. About the damage done by the flood, see also 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, January 8, 1847; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, January 6, 1847.
                  
                     83 Indiana, Senate Journal (1846-1847), 548; 
                                Richmond
                            
                            Palladium, February 2, 1847.
               
                     lessees of water power agreed to advance three years'
                    rent. By these means enough money and promises came in to permit letting contracts for extensive
                    rebuilding. The response testified to the firm faith of canal supporters; even public-spirited
                    citizens of 
                        Cincinnati
                     were reported to have pledged $20,000.84 "The
                    people of south-eastern Indiana," said the Daily Cincinnati Gazette,
                        
                        are now beginning to understand that canals are of some use beyond that of merely carrying
                            articles of production and consumption to and from market. The public sentiment is now
                            setting strongly in favor of railways; and it is correct, so far as long reaches, and
                            old-settled portions of the country, are concerned; but for the day in which it was dug, and
                            the region through which it was carried, the Whitewater Valley Canal was the very thing
                            needed. And our Indiana friends will do well to keep it in good order.85
                  
                    
            
            By July, the canal was again in operation above Harrison; the stretch between that place and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     was in order by the middle of September. There was even a channel to 
                        Hagerstown
                    , eight miles above 
                        Cambridge City
                     that had been built by the 
                        Hagerstown
                     Canal Company, organized in 1846. This part appears to have been a negligible addition,
                    often out of order, its maintenance hampered by lack of funds. No record has been found of the
                    volume of business on that section.
            When the whole line was ready to go once more, Henry Valette, claiming that the company owed him
                    $5,750 in interest and applying for an injunction to restrain company officers from acts
                    prejudicial to his lien, filed in 
                        Cincinnati
                     a suit to enforce a lien upon the White Water Valley Canal Company. When Judge McLean,
                    in chambers, granted the injunction on September 25, it prohibited the company from redeeming those
                    five- and fifty-dollar bonds by which it had collected repair funds after the flood. "The
                    citizens all along the line", said the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Indiana American, 
                        have promised to pay certain sums on the 1st of January, for which they have given their
                            notes in denominations of five dollars, for which they are to receive canal bonds,
                            receivable for tolls and water rents. But this decision prevents the company from receiving
                            them. The 
                        
                           84
                                    
                                        Cambridge City
                                    
                                    Reveille, April 7, 1847.
                        
                           85
                                    Daily 
                                            Cincinnati
                                         Gazette, June 17, 1847.
                     
                             consequence is, many of the citizens will refuse to pay
                            their bonds, as the company cannot comply with her part of the contract, thus creating
                            endless trouble and litigation, and great loss to the poor laborer, in whose hands many of
                            these individual notes now are, having received them in payment for labor.86
                  
                    The judge, sensibly observing that if the company were not permitted to operate nobody would
                    get anything, recommended that a portion of receipts be reserved to satisfy Valette, but whether the
                    plaintiff accepted that compromise is not clear.87 Perhaps he pondered it to
                    some purpose, however, for the injunction seems not to have been strictly enforced.
            As if law trouble were not enough, about mid-November, 1847, those rollicking rivers overflowed for
                    the second time in one year and with careless malice wrecked installations new and old between 
                        Cambridge City
                     and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . Recently re-established traffic ceased for ten months more while company directors
                    labored to collect from unhappy stockholders another damage fund, variously estimated at
                    $20,000 to $80,000.88 The legislature, in January, 1848,
                    passed an act amending the company charter: permitting directors to issue bonds of $20
                    upwards, earning 10 per cent a year; levying a 10 per cent assessment on stockholders; allowing the
                    company to transfer ownership of the line below Harrison to the city of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     on condition that the city repair that section. Governor Whitcomb vetoed this bill.89
            
            Nevertheless hope, if by this time not precisely undaunted, persisted, but it rose slowly like a
                    fighter a little groggy after his second knockdown. For three months after the November flood no
                    action occurred. The delay caused apprehension that the 
                        Cambridge City
                    
                    Reveille cheerily attempted to dissipate: "The fears entertained by some,
                    that the Whitewater canal would not be resuscitated again are groundless. Our canal will be
                    permanently repaired within 
                  
                     86
                            
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Weekly Argus, October 25, 1847, reprint of an article from the 
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American.
                  
                  
                     87 For a detailed story of this case, see Daily 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Gazette, October 12, 1847.
                  
                     88
                            
                                Cambridge City
                            
                            Reveille, November 17, 1847; 
                                Fort Wayne
                            
                            Times and People's Press, February 3, 1848; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Weekly Atlas, November 22, 1847; Daily 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Gazette, December 1, 1847; 
                                Cincinnati
                            
                            Daily Enquirer, November 19, December 2, 1847.
                  
                     89 Indiana, Senate Journal (1847-1848),
                        271-76.
               
                     ninety days, perhaps."90 The
                    "perhaps" was well taken, for the ninety days became more than twice that number.
                    The 
                        Connersville
                    
                    Indiana Telegraph summarized local attitudes, accurately, if wryly: 
                        The people of the White Water valley have experimentally tested the
                            great truth, that deferred hope will make the heart sick—and in this case, we may
                            add, the pocket also! It is now about twelve years since they commenced
                            digging for their Canal—and it can hardly be said they have reached the hidden
                            treasure yet.91
                  
                    
            
            With extraordinary faith, however, stockholders ruefully dug down for enough money to let repair
                    contracts by March, 1848. In September of that year traffic resumed on fifty-five miles between 
                        Cambridge City
                     and Harrison.92 Below that point the canal was still out of action,
                    funds having been exhausted. Two disastrous floods plunged the company deeply into debt, on which
                    moderate returns from intermittent business made only a negligible impression. The enterprise could
                    be firmly re-established, said the 
                        Connersville
                    
                    Indiana Telegraph, by "wise and rigid financiering—active and
                    persevering industry, and sleepless vigilance on the part of its officers and
                        agents…."93 This was sensible advice. Unfortunately
                    nature had no respect for any kind of financiering; she flouted the most persevering industry,
                    eluded vigilance, and made a mockery of repairs naively called "permanent."
            Citizens of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , concerned over inaction at that end of the canal, proposed in a town meeting that
                    municipal authorities issue bonds for $15,000 to repair the canal south of Harrison since
                    the company had agreed to cede tolls to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     on that part and to yield title to the section of the canal within the town. Exhorting
                    town fathers to act favorably on this proposal, the Indiana Register said:
                    "If we do not wish to see these streets become verdant with dog-fennel, better close with
                    the offers of mercy."94 There was some disposition at the southern
                    terminus to believe that 
                  
                     90
                            
                                Cambridge City
                            
                            Reveille, February 23, 1848.
                  
                     91
                            
                                Connersville
                            
                            Indiana Telegraph, March 16, 1848.
                  
                     92
                            Ibid., March 30, 1848; 
                                Cambridge City
                            
                            Reveille, July 29, 1848.
                  
                     93
                            
                                Connersville
                            
                            Indiana Telegraph, March 16, 1848.
                  
                     94
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Indiana Register, April 22, 1848.
               
                     the canal below Harrison had always been treated like an
                    unwanted stepchild and that business had been deliberately diverted to 
                        Cincinnati
                    .95 Yet sporadic reports of canal business show that collections at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     were as high as those at any other port, sometimes higher. Town fathers did not adopt
                    the town meeting proposal, but apparently 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     did not fulfill the gloomy grass-in-the-streets prediction. At any rate, the place
                    continued to exist even though canalling was defunct at that end.
            Elsewhere it was not much better. To get some of their own back, company directors charged high tolls
                    that made farmers shun the canal, made boat owners and merchants lose money, and provoked loud howls
                    of indignation. The 
                        Cambridge City
                    
                    Reveille calculated that on a hypothetical load of 1,200 bushels of flaxseed worth
                    15¢ a bushel a boatman, after paying toll of 91/4¢ a bushel on cargo, toll of
                    3¢ a mile on boat, cost of reshipping at Laurel, and the expense of hands and horses,
                    might earn a net profit of $8.66, which also had to pay for overhead like horseshoeing
                    and wear and tear on the boat.96 The company ignoring protests, the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Indiana American, over a year later, fired a volley at 
                        the unwise, ruinous and narrow-minded policy that the mousing muskrats are pursuing, who
                            control and direct our canal. It is true, from their sad reverses, they have some claim on
                            the public sympathy and the public purse. But this is no reason that they should kill at
                            once the golden egged goos—drive all business from the canal, and the towns along
                            the dirty ditch, and beggar its merchants. This they are most effectually doing at present.
                            The tolls are now so high, that two thirds of the business of our valley is done in wagons.
                            The boatmen, who begin to look lean and lank, are becoming ravenous, and it is becoming
                            impossible for any one to keep up a boat, unless they pay their hands in grog, filched from
                            the whiskey freight; and steal chickens and turkies [sic] along the line,
                            to board their hands, and corn from the fields for their horses.
                     Stock company directors, said the same editorial, "are so sordid, selfish and
                    grasping, that they seldom see or comprehend that which will lead to their own good."
                    Hence, 
                  
                     95 See 
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Political Beacon, February 29, 1844.
                  
                     96
                            
                                Cambridge City
                            
                            Reveille, September 23, 1848.
               
                     "SHAVERS control our banks, MUSKRATS our Canals, and
                    SNAKE-HEADS our Railroads."97
            
            Some three years later the company reduced tolls, but whether that gesture increased receipts is
                    difficult to say. Precisely how much traffic the canal carried and what its earnings were are
                    impossible to determine from fragmentary records. Let it be recalled again that in 1834 James
                    Conwell had calculated an annual net canal profit of $117,000. Intermittent reports,
                    however, indicate that gross receipts never came close to that figure and that returns were far from
                    commensurate with the agricultural wealth of a valley productive enough to have yielded those
                    thousands, if not more. Had the canal operated without interruption, and had it enjoyed more
                    confidence among producers, it might well have lived up to Conwell's expectations. In
                    reality, it was a loser for investors although, like all other canals, of considerable benefit to
                    shippers. For March, 1849, the company secretary announced income from tolls and water rents of
                        $7,200.98 Apparently he considered that sum a fairly good one,
                    but, even if receipts continued at that rate for a year, the total would have been scarcely enough
                    to pay debts and to cope with the devastation likely at any time to ride the crests of those
                    destroying rivers. Since the canal rarely enjoyed a full year of uninterrupted navigation, annual
                    gross revenue was probably not ever more than $40,000, a generous guess. Although the
                    rivers were reasonably quiescent during 1849, a cholera epidemic tied up boats and minor freshets
                    caused havoc sufficient to keep parts of the canal out of action a large part of the season and, of
                    course, to dissipate receipts as fast as they came in.99
            
            Having nearly reached rock bottom, the company in that year appealed to the legislature for relief.
                    "But your memorialists," they said, 
                        are gratified to say that the work is completed, and must be of incalculable public utility,
                            though they despair of its ever being profitable to the stockholders; the debts owing by the
                            company, including the 
                        
                           97
                                    
                                        Brookville
                                    
                                    Indiana American, November 30, 1849.
                        
                           98
                                    
                                        Cambridge City
                                    
                                    Reveille, April 14, 1849.
                        
                           99
                                    Ibid.; 
                                        Lafayette
                                    
                                    
                              
                                            Wabash
                                         Atlas, April 24, 1850.
                     
                             assessment raised from the stockholders …
                            [are] $320,000, a part of the latest repairs not being yet estimated, and the
                            stock in the hands of stockholders, $376,000, making the entire cost of the work
                            now …$693,000.100
                  
                    After that frank but less than optimistic and accurate preamble—the utility so
                    far having been calculable in small figures—they prayed that the state resume ownership
                    of the Whitewater Canal and assume company debts. The effrontery, if not the sense, of that appeal
                    merits admiration. It was no doubt a gesture of desperation; yet directors were surely not so
                    ingenuous as to believe that the legislature could be cajoled into repossessing an expensive
                    liability and creating more than a half million of new debt at the very moment when the state,
                    carrying out the 
                        Butler
                     compromise of 1847, was only beginning to crawl painfully out from under an old one. As
                    might have been expected, the solons of the State House turned upon this memorial a cold shoulder
                    and deaf ear.
            Whereupon the company, hat in hand, again went up and down the line begging for funds. Before
                    collecting could get well under way, a flood swept the valley in March, 1850, washing out a canal
                    bank at 
                        Connersville
                    , smashing a dam at 
                        Brookville
                    , and otherwise causing enough disturbance to stop navigation for several months. This
                    disaster, deepening public disillusion, made the omens unpropitious for collecting donations. The 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Indiana American scoffed: "The agent of the White Water Canal Company is
                    loose among the people of this region, trying to get subscriptions to repair the Canal. Better go to
                    those who were not broken up by paying high tolls."101 Yet hardy
                    believers, undismayed by one setback after another, contributed enough money to start repairs, and
                    by late May there was hope that the canal might soon be restored.
            Repairing was so regular a procedure that a common newspaper line was: "The canal will again
                    be navigable in a few days." That announcement became true only if the editor kept on using
                    it while days stretched into weary weeks. Being out of commission about as many months in the year
                    as it was in working order, sometimes more, the Whitewater 
                  
                     100 Indiana, Senate Journal (1849-1850), 166.
                  
                     101
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, March 22, 1860.
               
                     had little chance to acquire robust canal character or to win
                    widespread affection. Valley residents were so busy fuming over breakdowns and raging at the company
                    that they had no inclination to praise or to romanticize. The Whitewater had few boats, no memorable
                    skippers or other characters noted for respectability or raffishness, and no hometown poets,
                    songmakers, or celebrated travelers. Boat building flourished at Cedar Grove and elsewhere in 
                        Franklin County
                    , and some craft won a place in local regard: Native, Banner, Belle of
                        Indiana, Favorite. Boats raced and crews fought, and very likely the crewmen swore as
                    heartily and got just as drunk as their wicked brethren on the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie, which developed an enviable reputation for devil-may-care. The Whitewater,
                    when it was navigable, must have stirred with lively action, but it did not produce any considerable
                    body of anecdote or reminiscence.
            One voyager named Henry Shombre did jot down in his diary brief notes of a four-day voyage to 
                        Cincinnati
                     en route to 
                        California
                     gold fields. He was an easygoing young man who enjoyed canalling in a carefree way that
                    no doubt distressed fastidious passengers. Starting from 
                        Hagerstown
                     at nine o'clock on a Sunday morning, he wrote: 
                        big crowd, boys tite. 
                                Connersville
                            , crowd. Salute fired, gun in cabin shot through door. Some feel very
                            bad—gals. one fell over & hurt his shin. music dans; coffee week.
                        Monday…. Woke in Laurel, fine morning. crowd come to see us. boys in fine spirits,
                            lame man better. Shooting after breakfast…. Boat reshiping … our boys
                            little tite. feel better. help reship. took all day. Start at Sundown, run aground 2ce.
                            Pilot got mad, swore, ript tore, snorted, about to leave, concluded to stay. all glad of it.
                            banjo playing dancing, all fired a salute. some playing cards, some tite and full of fun.
                        Tuesday…. Boat made poor progress. last night run aground 7 times. reached 
                                Brookville
                             at 6 A.M. lay by 2 hours … one of the boys shot a goose. some of
                            them tite. music & dancing … arrived at 
                                Harrison
                            . the boys all armed on deck fired salute. the whole town came down to see us.
                            lay there one hour. at night great trouble about beds, stowed on deck. Stealing blankets.
                            lots of fun. get to sleep at 12 O'clock.102
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  102 Bernhard Knollenberg, Pioneer Sketches of the Upper
                            Whitewater Valleg, 
                                Quaker
                             Stronghold of the West (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. XV,
                        No. 1; 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1945), 113.
            
            
            Those informative notes illuminate packet behavior and the vagaries of canalling. The crowds in
                    various ports show that boat arrivals were as momentous to canal towns as the 
                        Mississippi
                     steamboat was to Mark Twain's village of Hannibal. The frequent grounding
                    implies that the Whitewater, when not overrun by too much water, suffered from not enough. Of the
                    two evils, boatmen evidently preferred to scrape through by the aid of brawn and curses rather than
                    to be kept off by floods. No structure of earth or timber was a sure bulwark against high water
                    that, rushing down the 491-foot drop between 
                        Cambridge City
                     and 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , savagely assaulted everything in its path. There was something vindictive about those
                    valley streams. However firmly beams were spiked and bolted, trussed and reinforced, a freshet
                    tossed aside man's handiwork as contemptuously as if it were a vagrant leaf.
            In September, 1852, a culvert collapsed at Ross' Mills, and five thousand yards of earth
                    dropped out of the bank. In December, down came another turbulent rise that dismantled bridges, tore
                    up dams, and, as the Laurel News put it, "suspended navigation till
                    nobody knows when," the high water being "but little lower than the great freshet
                    of 1847."103 That flood was one too many for the dejected company and
                    for stockholders; dazed directors could not decide whether to attempt repairs once more or to give
                    up the whole business as a bad job. Although they managed, by sleight of hand, to let a few repair
                    contracts and although water again reached Laurel six months later, friends of the canal had little
                    fight left and no money. The company, as if shocked into a coma by the unequal struggle, became
                    moribund.
            But the ditch remained, or what was left of it, posing the question of what to do about it. A meeting
                    at 
                        Brookville
                     in January, 1853, discussed the feasibility of building a railroad on the towpath. The
                        
                  
                            Franklin
                         Democrat objected: 
                        Some of our citizens look upon a rail road as a drain upon the local interests of the
                            Valley…. So long as the Canal was in operation our market approximated that of 
                                Cincinnati
                            . The Canal must be repaired, or our farmers must be set back to such modes of
                            transporting their 
                        
                           103 Laurel News, December 31, 1852.
                     
                             products to market as will virtually place them at least
                            a quarter of a century back from the position they so recently occupied.104
                  
                    That argument was curious yet typical of strong canal sentiment, than which nothing was more
                    rigidly resistant to change. Why a railroad should not have aided, rather than damaged, valley
                    interests is not clear nor why farmers might not use it to become more modern than they had ever
                    been. A railroad would not affect the status of all those farmers who had kept on transporting by
                    wagon instead of by canal, which they could not depend on anyhow because it was often out of order.
                    At least four serious floods in six years were not sound arguments for spending more money on
                    repairs. The views of the Democrat demonstrated the inviolability of a fixed idea.
                    Not flood, wreckage, ruinous repair bills, un-dependability, or railroad shook the unbelievable
                    faith of stubborn canal adherents.
            They prevailed for a time in the Whitewater Valley by some means or other amassing funds to keep
                    navigation going, irregularly, on miscellaneous pieces of the canal. High water on the East Fork in
                    the spring of 1853 almost wrecked it again. In 1855 another version of the case of Valette v. Whitewater Valley Canal Company came to trial in a 
                        United States
                     Circuit Court in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Complainant filed suit this time to enforce payment of 112 bonds of $1,000
                    each issued to him by the company in 1845; he again moved for an injunction, also for the
                    appointment of a receiver to take possession of all canal property for the benefit of the plaintiff.
                    Judge McLean, possibly the same man as the arbiter in the previous hearing, appointed a receiver but
                    concerning payment of those bonds ruled that equity was with the defendant, who alleged that
                    "Valette had … advanced to them … $56,000 in work on the
                    unfinished portion of the canal, and that the $112,000 issued to him was illegal and
                    usorious [sic] and that the work, or contract for work, was a mere pretext
                    … to cover up the usury of the loan."105
            
            If the decision prevented Valette from taking over, it was still no help to the bankrupt company.
                    When a receiver 
                  
                     104
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            
                        
                                    Franklin
                                 Democrat, January 21, 1863.
                  
                     105
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, June 15, 1866, reprint of an article from the Daily 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 Gazette.
                  
               
                     took charge later in the year, valley editors immediately began
                    to grumble that he did nothing for the benefit of the canal, but he could hardly be blamed for
                    inaction. He had not a spare dollar he could use to do anything about anything. Nevertheless, three
                    years later the old familiar notice was still current: "The Canal will be again navigable
                    in a few days, as we learn from the superintendent."106 Yet if faith
                    were boundless, it was not unanimous. A dwindling number of diehard canallers made resources more
                    uncertain than ever and made the end inevitable.
            In 1862 the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     Railroad Company bought the 
                        Cincinnati
                     branch of the canal, on which the company proposed to build a railroad.
                    "Should this be done," one 
                        Brookville
                     citizen protested to Governor Morton, "it will almost ruin the greater part of
                    the Whitewater valley, for it is the only outlet we have for our
                    produce…. I doubt very much whether the R. R. Co. have the right to divert the Canal to
                    other purposes or to destroy it to the great injury of this section."107 Not even Oliver P. Morton was powerful enough to control events in 
                        Ohio
                    . The railroad company extended its reach. In 1863, at a public auction in 
                        Brookville
                    , a 
                        United States
                     marshal sold the Indiana part of the Whitewater Canal to Henry C. Lord, president of
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                     road, for $65,000. Lord proposed to build a railroad to 
                        Brookville
                     for $51,000, payable in five equal annual installments bearing 6 per cent
                        interest.108 But this sale was set aside on the grounds of lack of authority
                    and no railroad appeared.
            Canallers would not give up. In the spring of 1865 mill owners and others proposed, at their own
                    expense, to preserve water power and to restore navigation between 
                        Brookville
                     and 
                        Connersville
                    . "Subscription papers are now in circulation," the 
                        Brookville
                    
                    Indiana American excitedly reported, 
                        and it is hoped our farmers and business men generally will donate liberally, as it is of the
                            utmost importance that our mills be again put in operation, and transportation of some kind
                            afforded us. It is useless to await the action of the Canal Company, as the Receiver has
                            declined to render any assistance whatever.109
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     106
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            
                        
                                    Franklin
                                 Weeklv Democrat, July 30, 1868.
                  
                     107 Rufus Haymond to Oliver P. Morton, December 29, 1862, Whitewater
                            Canal Correspondence.
                  
                     108
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            
                            Democratic Register, July 31, 1863.
                  
                     109
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                            Indiana American, April 24, 1865.
               
                     Implicit in this flurry was the astounding resilience of canal
                    men, perennially hopeful despite realities hard enough to obliterate hope, never more exhilarated
                    than when collecting donations for a ditch that was beyond salvage.
            The effort was abortive. About the same time as the proposal for canal restoration originated, a
                    thousand or more valley residents petitioned the legislature to enact a law permitting a railroad to
                    be built on the line of the Whitewater Canal. The assembly complied. At a called session in
                    November, 1865, it passed an "Act to authorize Railroad Companies to occupy and use for
                    railroad purposes the property of Canal Companies, with their consent," the measure
                    guaranteeing the protection of water power for the benefit of lessees.110
            
            About three weeks later C. C. Binkley, president of the White Water Valley Canal Company, sold the
                    line once more to Lord, this time for $137,348.12. That was the end of the canal as a
                    means of transportation. Two years later the towpath became the roadbed of a rail line between 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Cambridge City
                    . Thus the Whitewater Canal ceased to be a highway of commerce, although it continued to
                    serve a number of mills and to develop hydroelectric power for almost a century thereafter. As
                    recently as 1953 the Indiana Flood Control and Water Resources Commission recommended that the canal
                    in 
                        Connersville
                     be converted into an enclosed conduit to serve manufacturing plants there.111 As a profit-making work, the ditch thus fulfilled its destiny, although in a
                    manner very different from that envisaged by its early supporters.
            At many points along the line the Whitewater is still a recognizable channel. Of the high straight
                    stretch north of 
                        Connersville
                    , one observer remarked not many years since: 
                        In late June this spot is one of the most beautiful and satisfying imaginable. The banks of
                            the canal, running straight as a die and covered with wild roses, tiger lilies, and
                            elderberry blossoms, are pungent with the tangy scent of pennyroyal. To the west rise partly
                            wooded hills, richly pastured and dotted with grazing cattle and sheep; to the east unfold
                            mile upon mile of rolling farmlands, burgeoning with varicolored fields of ripening wheat,
                            and oats, young corn, and garden plants.112
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     110 Indiana, Laws (1865), 116-17.
                  
                     111
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, May 23, 1953.
                  
                     112 Knollenberg, Pioneer Sketches of Upper Whitewater
                                Valley, 114.
               
                     The restored aqueduct across 
                        Duck Creek
                     at Metamora and the restored stone locks three miles east of there recreate for the
                    contemporary visitor a fragment of the canal as it once was. Like a venerable patriarch exempt from
                    labor, portions of the Whitewater placidly live on.
            Despite its checkered career and its many losing battles with the two obstreperous forks of the
                    Whitewater River, the canal had a long history and a long term of usefulness. Both may have been
                    some compensation for the hopes of such strong canal champions as those of the valley. Among the
                    earliest in Indiana, they were also foremost in determination, in persistence, and in courage that,
                    if blind, was doggedly tenacious.
         
         
         
            Judge Perkins, the Indiana Supreme Court, and the Civil War
            
                    Emma Lou Thornbrough
                    ∗
                
            A fundamental problem in a democracy is how to wage war effectively within the bounds set by the
                    Constitution. Every war in 
                        United States
                     history has been accompanied by protests on the part of the civilian population over
                    alleged constitutional violations and infringements of personal liberties. This was notoriously true
                    of Indiana during the Civil War. Recent scholarly works by Kenneth M. Stampp and Frank L. Klement
                    have questioned the tradition that Indiana was honeycombed with treason and full of Southern
                    sympathizers. Few states contributed as heavily to military victory for the Union cause as did
                    Indiana. But if Klement's definition of Copperheads as "avid critics of the
                    Lincoln administration" is accepted, then it must be admitted that Copperheads were
                    numerous within the Democratic party.1
            
            Most Indiana Democrats were willing to support a war to preserve the Union but insisted they were
                    fighting to preserve "the Union as it was." They were conservatives alarmed over
                    the revolutionary tendencies set in motion by the war. They frequently accused the Republicans, who
                    were in power, of using the war for the purpose of carrying out a revolution and perpetuating
                    themselves in power. As states' rights disciples of Jefferson and Jackson these Democrats
                    were horrified at the increasing centralization of power in the hands of the federal government, and
                    they were strongly opposed to such economic measures of the wartime Congress as the protective
                    tariff, the national banking law, and the issuance of greenbacks. They were hostile to abolitionists
                    and opposed to the Emancipation Proclamation and to the conversion of the war into a crusade against
                    slavery. Finally they were bitter against both the Lincoln administration and the state
                    administration of Governor Oliver P. Morton for 
                  
                     ∗ Emma Lou Thornbrough is professor of history at Butler
                            University, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  
                     1 Kenneth M. Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil
                                War (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXI; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1949); Frank L. Klement, The Copperheads in the Middle West (
                                Chicago
                            , 1960).
               
                     "executive usurpations" and disregard of
                    constitutional guarantees of personal liberties. They inveighed against military arrests and the
                    suspension of the privilege of the writ of habeas corpus.
            In several cases the Indiana Supreme Court, made up of Democrats for most of the Civil War, sought to
                    curb the power of the military over civilians and declared certain wartime measures
                        unconstitutional.2 The principal spokesman for the court was Judge Samuel E.
                    Perkins, a severe critic of both Lincoln and Morton. Perkins was a Democrat from 
                        Wayne County
                    , Morton's home, where the governor himself had been an active Democrat until
                    1854. Perkins was older than Morton, but the two men knew each other well. Perkins' career
                    was typical of those of many self-made men of his age who came to Indiana from the East. Born in 
                        Vermont
                     in 1811, he was orphaned as a small child and was adopted by a man in
                            
                  Conway, Massachusetts
               , for whom he worked until he was twenty-one. He attended
                    a three-months school in the winter for a few years but was largely self-educated. After he reached
                    his majority he went to 
                        New York State
                    , where he attended Yates County Academy for one year and read law in the town of 
                        Penn Yan
                    .
            Expecting to go to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , he started out on foot from Buffalo in 1836. But in 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, he was stopped by heavy storms and impassable roads and decided to stay. The
                    following year he was admitted to the bar and began practice. He was soon active in the Democratic
                    party, which was never strong in 
                        Wayne County
                    , and for a time he edited the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Jeffersonian. Governor James Whitcomb appointed him a prosecuting attorney and
                    later a member of the state's supreme bench.3 In 1852, the year after
                    the adoption 
                  
                     2 In the elections of October, 1868, Democrats gained control of the
                            Indiana Supreme Court. Samuel E. Perkins and Andrew Davison were re-elected at that time,
                            while James L. Worden and James M. Hanna were elected for the first time. All four were
                            Democrats. They served until January 3, 1865, when they were replaced by Republicans elected
                            in October, 1864.
                  
                     3 For biographical sketches of Perkins see: "The Seventh
                            Congressional District," A Biographical History of Eminent and
                                Self-Made Men of the State of Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1880), II, 169; Lander J. Monks (ed.), Courts and Lawyers of
                                Indiana (3 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), I, 206-07, 246, 252-53. There are some discrepancies in these accounts
                            as to the exact date of Perkins' accession to the court. The facts appear to be as
                            follows. On January 10, 1846, Governor James Whitcomb nominated Samuel E. Perkins and Thomas
                            L. Smith to the
               
                     of the new state constitution, Perkins was elected to the
                    Indiana Supreme Court. In 1858 he was re-elected. While serving on the court he also taught law at
                    North Western Christian University (now 
                        Butler
                     University) and prepared the Indiana Digest of 1858.
            During the fifties he brought sharp criticism upon himself for two decisions. They reflected two
                    characteristics of Perkins' philosophy which were to recur in his later
                    decisions—an insistence upon strict construction of constitutional provisions and
                    opposition to restraints upon personal liberty and the use of private property. The first decision
                    concerned a law enacted in 1855 which absolutely prohibited the manufacture and sale of intoxicating
                    liquors except for medicinal, mechanical, chemical, or sacramental purposes.4
                    Perkins declared the law unconstitutional on several grounds but principally because it violated
                    personal and property rights. Liquor distilleries were property, he declared, and the legislature
                    could not by a general law "annihilate the entire property in liquors in the
                    state." He cited the constitutional limitations against taking property without just
                    compensation and asked: "What…is the right of property worth, stripped of the
                    right of producing and using?" 
                  court to succeed Jeremiah Sullivan and Charles Dewey, whose terms were to expire at the
                            end of that session of the general assembly. The senate rejected the nominations of both
                            Perkins and Smith. At the next session of the legislature Whitcomb again submitted the name
                            of Perkins, and the senate confirmed the nomination on December 30, 1846. At this same
                            session Whitcomb twice submitted the name of Smith and the senate twice refused to confirm
                            the appointment. In December, 1847, Whitcomb once again nominated Smith, and on January 21,
                            1848, his nomination was finally confirmed. Whitcomb was a Democrat as were Perkins and
                            Smith, while the two judges whom they were replacing were Whigs. Indiana, Senate Journal (1845-1846), 488, 533-34; Indiana, Senate Journal
                            (1846-1847), 219-20, 646-47, 620; Indiana, Senate Journal (1847-1848), 71,
                            216.
                  
                     4
                            Beebe v. State, 6 Indiana Reports 501 (1855). In the
                            Beebe case Perkins spoke for the entire court. In an earlier and little known case he had
                            released a man who had been arrested for breaking the 1855 prohibition law. The man sought
                            release on a writ of habeas corpus. Perkins in granting the release declared the law
                            unconstitutional. He admitted that the legislature could regulate the liquor business but
                            denied that it could prohibit it completely. His reasoning foreshadowed his opinion in the
                            Beebe case. "The right of liberty and pursuing happiness secured by the
                            constitution," he said, "embraces the right, in each compos
                                mentis individual, of selecting what he will eat and drink…."
                            The opinion in the case, Hemnann v. State, which was
                            decided October 30, 1856, is printed in the appendix of the eighth volume of the Indiana
                            Reports.
               
                     In the second case Perkins invalidated the portion of the school
                    law of 1855 which authorized incorporated cities and towns to levy taxes for the support of public
                    schools within their borders.5 He declared that the law violated the portion of
                    the state constitution which made it the duty of the legislature to provide for a "general
                    and uniform system of common schools wherein tuition shall be without charge and equally open to
                    all." He insisted that in order to meet the requirement of uniformity the school system
                    must operate equally in the city and the country. The provisions enabling municipal corporations to
                    levy a special tax for school purposes made it possible, he said, for the legislature to shirk its
                    duty of maintaining the schools and would lead, he maintained, to a system of schools which were not
                    uniform. On a petition for a rehearing of the case he reiterated the same argument and also declared
                    that the law violated the constitutional provision (Article IV, Section 22) prohibiting the
                    legislature from passing any local or special law for the support of common schools. He held that
                    the law was local because it operated on only a portion of the people and property of the state and
                    permitted one scale of taxation for some school districts and another one for other districts.6
            
            While on the bench Perkins continued to be an active Democrat, frequently writing letters to the
                    press and making political speeches. He was strongly opposed to the antislavery tendencies of the
                    Republican party. In a speech at 
                        Richmond
                     during the 1860 campaign he declared the avowed objects of the Republicans to be
                    aggressive and in violation of the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    . After the war began, like many other Democrats, he continued to insist that it could
                    have been avoided by compromise. In a newspaper article in July, 1861, he expressed his fear that
                    "in the prosecution of the war, we may build up a great consolidated military and
                    enormously costly government, which will necessarily deprive us of many of the liberties we have
                    enjoyed in the past." But he said that the South would receive no support from the
                    "ever Union-loving Democracy of the North" and that it was the duty of Democrats
                    "to aid the war so long as the Administration determines to prosecute it constitutionally
                        
                  
                     5
                            City of 
                                    Lafayette
                                
                      v. Jenners, 10 Indiana Reports 70 (1857).
                  
                     6
                     Ibid., 75-77.
               
                     and for a constitutional object." He was bitterly
                    opposed to the Emancipation Proclamation, which he regarded as a flagrant violation of the
                    Constitution. In January, 1863, Perkins declared the war, as it was being conducted, a failure and
                    appeared to be favorable to an armistice. But a few months later he was calling for the
                    "speedy conquest of the South, so that the war and the strife may
                    cease…" and people "turn their attention to the question of reclaiming
                    their lost liberties, and reestablishing the plain economical republican government which our
                    fathers left us."7
            
            Perkins became involved in a direct clash with Governor Morton in a decision of the state supreme
                    court which attempted to thwart the governor's plans to take the state's financial
                    affairs into his own hands. The acrimonious 1863 session of the General Assembly, in which the
                    Democrats had a majority, had come to an end without passing an appropriation bill, Towards the end
                    of the session the Republican members had halted the enactment of all legislation by bolting and
                    going as a group to 
                        Madison
                     ostensibly to block the passage of a militia bill they regarded as unconstitutional.
                    Instead of calling a special session of the legislature to appropriate the money necessary to run
                    the government for the next two years Morton resorted to a number of extraordinary measures, some of
                    them of doubtful legality. He insisted that he dare not call a special session because the
                    Democratic members were bent on "revolution."8
            
            Morton ran into a snag when he attempted to compel the state auditor, Joseph Ristine, a Democrat, to
                    authorize the expenditure of money in the treasury to pay the interest on the state debt due 
                        New York
                     bankers. Attorneys for the Board of Commissioners of the Sinking Fund sought a mandamus
                    in the 
                        Marion County
                     Circuit Court to compel 
                  
                     7
                            Speech of Judge Perkins at Mass Meeting Held at 
                                    Richmond
                                , Indiana, September 25, 1860 (pamphlet, n.p., n.d.); 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, July 11, 1861, January 16, 1863; letter of Samuel E.
                            Perkins to J. E. McDonald, Joseph Ristine, and others, ibid., November 10,
                            1863. See also Perkins' letter to the Democratic Club of Lawrence-burg, ibid., May 12, 1864.
                  
                     8 See Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War,
                            176-85, for an account of the legislative session and Morton's one-man rule. See
                            also Morton's defense of his conduct in his speech before the Union state
                            convention, February 23, 1864, in William M. French (ed.), Life, Speeches,
                                State Papers and Public Services of Governor Oliver P. Morton (
                                Indianapolis
                            , n.d.), 393-415.
               
                     Ristine to issue a warrant for the payment of the money. This
                    led to two opinions of the Indiana Supreme Court dealing with the same question. Perkins wrote the
                    opinion in one case, Judge James M. Hanna in the other.9 The same briefs were
                    filed in each case. Oscar B. Hord, the state attorney general, another Democrat (and Judge
                    Perkins' son-in-law), represented the auditor. Hord argued that since no specific
                    appropriation had been made for the payment of the interest the funds could not be paid out. He said
                    that under the state constitution the legislature alone had control over the disposition of public
                    money and warned against the dangers to the state if this principle was violated.10
            
            In support of the right to withdraw the money from the treasury without a specific legislative
                    enactment Morton wrote a letter to James Winslow of the 
                        New York
                     banking firm of Winslow, Lanier and Company. The letter was filed as a brief.11 The essence of Morton's argument was that laws already in force
                    authorized payment and that failure to pay the interest would constitute the impairment by the state
                    of an obligation of a contract thereby violating the 
                        United States
                     Constitution. And the commissioners' counsel declared: 
                        Then the case stands thus: there is a general appropriation in the original contract for the
                            payment of the interest; the money is in the treasury; it is the plain duty of the Auditor
                            to draw the warrant upon the Treasurer for the interest….
                        We contend further, that the laws in force and made at the time of the State's
                            arrangement with the bondholders are to be taken together as forming a
                        contract….
                    Any subsequent legislation which interfered with the payment was in conflict with the
                    Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    , and "so far as it affects that contract detrimentally it is null and
                        void."12
            
            Perkins and Hanna sustained the position of the attorney general. Perkins held that there was no
                    provision in Indiana 
                  
                     9
                            Ristine v. State ex rel. Board of
                                Commissioners, 20 Indiana Reports 328 (1863) and State ex rel.
                                Board of Commissioners v. Ristine, ibid., 345.
                            Perkins wrote the opinion in the first case; Hanna in the second.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 368-72.
                  
                     11 "The Governor in his argument entitled a Letter to James
                            Winslow Esq., and filed herein as part of the brief of the counsel for the
                            Commissioners," ibid., 372-79.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 383.
               
                     law authorizing state officers to pay the interest on the state
                    debt without a specific appropriation, and he declared that there was no existing law making such an
                        appropriation.13 Hanna's opinion also held that neither the state
                    constitution nor the laws of the state authorized any state officer to pay interest on the state
                    debt without a specific appropriation, and, like Perkins, Hanna denied that any law already passed
                    made such an appropriation.14
            
            After the decision the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily State Sentinel, the leading Democratic newspaper, insisted that if Morton
                    failed to call a special session "he would be without excuse, and such will be the popular
                    verdict." The Republican 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Journal, on the other hand, assailed the "contemptible quibbles,
                    and the hocus pocus of a sham lawsuit" which prevented the payment of the money from the
                    treasury. This newspaper insisted it was futile to call a special session because the Democratic
                    majority "would never pass an appropriation, never!" Morton,
                    ignoring assertions by Democrats that if a session were called they would promise to pass an
                    appropriation bill, made arrangements with the 
                        New York
                     bankers to advance the money necessary to pay the interest. During the 1864 political
                    campaign Judge Perkins called Morton's financial course a usurpation of powers belonging to
                    the legislature and compared the governor to Caesar and Cromwell. But Democrats could only fume and
                    utter cries of outrage at the audacious Morton. They were powerless to stop him from establishing a
                    one-man government which ignored not only the state legislature but the other state officers as
                        well.15
            
            Threats to personal liberty from actions of military officers aroused even more bitter condemnation
                    than did Morton's financial policies. Military arrests were felt to strike at the very
                    roots of constitutional government. Such authority as there was for these arrests rested on a
                    proclamation by President Lincoln issued September 24, 1862, and on various orders by military
                    authorities which were supposedly derived from it. There were also examples of arrests in which
                    officers 
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., 339-42.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., 348, 367-68.
                  
                     15
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, June 6, 1863, June 29, 1864; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, June 13, 1863; Stampp, Indiana Politics during
                                the Civil War, 182-84.
               
                     clearly acted on their own initiative. Lincoln's
                    proclamation declared that, so long as the insurrection lasted, all rebels or persons discouraging
                    enlistment or resisting the draft or persons guilty of any disloyal action were subject to martial
                    law and liable to be tried by military authorities. Such persons were denied the privilege of the
                    writ of habeas corpus. By an act of March 3, 1863, Congress authorized the President to suspend the
                    writ of habeas corpus whenever in his judgment the public safety required it and relieved military
                    officers from the obligation of answering the writ. The act also gave immunity and the protection of
                    the federal courts to officers who might be sued for arrests or imprisonments.16
            
            Democratic members of the 1863 Indiana legislature vehemently protested military arrests and
                    introduced several bills designed to curb them. In the lower house a resolution was passed which
                    condemned military arrests as "acts of tyranny, a flagrant violation of the rights of the
                    people, as unwarranted by the laws of the Constitution," and demanded that "all
                    such arrests shall hereafter cease." A committee created by the house held hearings and
                    examined witnesses in forty-three cases of military arrests. The report of the Democratic majority
                    of the committee found that persons had been "taken into custody upon frivolous
                    pretexts," and that persons had been arrested whose only offense had been the expressions
                    of opinions derogatory to emancipation. "Those who spoke boldly, as freemen ought to
                    do," the majority asserted, "were seized, deprived of liberty, and refused a
                    trial, under the pretext that they had been guilty of disloyal practices…."17
            
            The dissenting report of the Republican minority refused to recognize "for one moment that
                    the arrests complained of in this State were arbitrary, unjust, and illegal, or that they were
                    subversive of the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    , or of this State or dangerous to the liberties of the people…."
                        
                  
                     16 James D. Richardson (comp.), A Compilation of the
                                Messages and Papers of the Presidents (10 vols., Washington, 1922), VI, 98; James
                            G. Randall, Constitutional Problems under Lincoln (rev. ed., 
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1951), 152, 163-66; 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, XII, 755.
                  
                     17 Indiana, House Journal (1863), 26; Report and Evidence of the Committee on Arbitrary Arrests in the State of Indiana,
                                Authorized by Resolution of the House of Representatives, January 9, 1863 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1863), 6, 8.
               
                     On the contrary, these arrests were held to be necessary
                    measures in suppressing the rebellion and restoring the Union. "All such as would, in time
                    of war, make the civil authority supreme and above the military power," the minority said,
                    "were begotten and brought forth by either ignorance or treason." Those people "who are constantly talking of the habeas corpus, and are very much alarmed for fear its great liberty features will be
                    violated—they need more patriotism…."18
            
            A few months later the state supreme court, speaking through Perkins, entered a powerful dissent to
                    such views and denied the authority of the military to arrest and imprison civilians. The first case
                    involving military arrests grew out of an order issued by Brigadier General Orlando B. Willcox, the
                    commander of the District of Indiana and 
                        Michigan
                    .19 It called for the arrest of any persons "engaged in
                    stealing, concealing, or preventing the delivery of any Government property, or any property to
                    which the 
                        
                            United States
                        
                     have just claim." Acting under the authority of this order Jeremiah D. Skeen, the
                    deputy provost marshal for 
                        Ripley County
                    , arrested Dederick Monkheimer, whom he accused of stealing a horse which was the
                    property of the 
                        United States
                    . But the local jailer refused to confine the man. Thereupon Skeen ordered the jailer to
                    surrender his keys and personally locked up Monkheimer. The next day the victim obtained a writ of
                    habeas corpus from the 
                        Ripley County
                     judge, who ordered Monkheimer's release on the ground that "no
                    verified charge of any offence whatever" had been brought against him. Arguing that as
                    deputy provost marshal of the 
                        United States
                     he was not liable to answer to a state judge and that the county judge had no
                    jurisdiction in the case, Skeen appealed to the state supreme court.
            Perkins upheld the action of the county judge in an opinion which was a stinging rebuke to the claims
                    of military authority. He pointed out that no legal charges had been brought against Monkheimer and
                    that an admission that arrests could be made "at the mere pleasure of these military
                    policemen" made state governments subservient to the military 
                  
                     18
                            Report and Evidence of the Committee on Arbitrary Arrests, 123, 127.
                  
                     19
                            Skeen v. Monkheimer, 21 Indiana Reports 1 (1863).
               
                     and paved the way for despotism. "And it is not
                    improper to add here the remark," he declared, "that Indiana has never been in a
                    condition to justify, according to any established principle of law, the superseding of the judicial
                    by the military power, in the prosecution and punishment of crime…."20 There had been no time when both state and federal courts were not ready and
                    able to arrest anyone charged with a crime.
            A second and much more widely publicized case21 arose when the chief provost
                    marshal of the District of Indiana and 
                        Michigan
                     directed the provost marshal of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Captain Frank Wilcox, to issue an order prohibiting anyone from selling liquor to
                    enlisted men. "This order must be rigidly enforced," he informed Wilcox.
                    "Anyone violating it will be severely punished. I have noticed with surprise, many
                    intoxicated soldiers in our streets. This evil should and must be stopped." Wilcox
                    thereupon issued an order which prohibited all persons engaged in the sale of liquor from making
                    sales to enlisted men and warned that violation would lead to severe punishment. Joseph Griffin, a
                    saloonkeeper, was arrested and imprisoned by Wilcox for disobeying the order. He did not apply for a
                    writ of habeas corpus, but after he was released he brought suit against the captain for false
                    imprisonment. He secured as his counsel John L. Ketcham, one of the ablest attorneys in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who argued that Griffin was not subject to military jurisdiction because at the time
                    of his arrest there were no organized rebel forces in Indiana and no rebellion in the state.
                    Wilcox' defense was that he was acting under military orders of the provost marshal, who
                    possessed "summary police powers" to deal with all matters affecting the good
                    order and behavior of enlisted men and with "all persons interfering therewith, whether
                    connected with the military service or not."22 Griffin lost his case in
                    the 
                        Marion County
                     court and appealed to the state supreme court, where Perkins reversed the lower
                    court's decision.
            
               
                  20
                        Ibid., 3.
               
                  21
                        Griffin v. Wilcox, 21 Indiana Reports 370 (1864).
               
                  22
                        Griffin v. Wilcox, Transcript of Record from the Court of
                        Common Pleas of 
                            Marion County
                        , Case No. 3554, Indiana Supreme Court Papers (Archives Division, Indiana State
                        Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ).
            
            
            The act of Congress of March 3, 1863, granting immunity to military officers did not bar the present
                    suit, said Perkins, because Congress did not have the power to enact legislation denying citizens
                    redress through damage suits for violations of rights secured by the Fourth and Fifth amendments. He
                    then went into a long discourse on the war powers of the President and the extent of military
                    jurisdiction. He admitted that men in military service were subject to military orders and that
                    military officers might prohibit soldiers under their command from drinking intoxicating liquor. But
                    Griffin was not connected with the military service in any way. Nor had he been charged with
                    violating any law of Indiana or of the 
                        United States
                    . Perkins admitted that the President had the power to govern through military officers
                    and martial law when the civil power of the 
                        United States
                     was suspended by force. "But in all parts of the country, where the Courts are
                    open, and the civil power is not expelled by force," he declared, "the
                    Constitution and laws rule, the President is but President, and no citizen not connected with the
                    army, can be punished by the military power of the 
                        
                            United States
                        
                    , nor is he amenable to military orders." If men committed crimes defined by law they
                    should be punished according to the laws and the Constitution in civil courts. But if they were not
                    guilty of crimes recognized by law and if the civil power was operative in the region in which they
                    resided, "their arrest, trial, and punishment by, military courts, is but a mode of
                    applying lynch law; is, in short, mob violence."23 So far as the
                    present case was concerned, he pointed out: "The Courts have at all times been open, and
                    there are a sufficiency of them here, including those of the city, State, and 
                        
                            United States
                        
                    , to meet the public necessities."24 Therefore the arrest and
                    imprisonment of Griffin on the pretext of military authority was held to be without justification.
            Perhaps encouraged by the Vallandigham case,25 then pending before the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court, Perkins 
                  
                     23
                            Griffin v. Wilcox, 21 Indiana Reports 386.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., 391-92.
                  
                     25 Clement L. Vallandigham, a former Democratic congressman from 
                                Ohio
                            , had been arrested for violating an order of Major General Ambrose Burnside
                            which stated that persons declaring sympathy with the enemy would be arrested and tried by
                            military procedure. Vallandigham was tried before a military commission in 
                                Cincinnati
                             for a speech in which he charged the Lincoln administration with needlessly
                            prolonging the war. The 
                                United States
                             Supreme Court refused to review the case.
               
                     attacked military arrests made for the purpose of suppressing
                    criticism of the war, although this issue was not actually involved in the Griffin case.
                    "Resistance to illegal arrests and mob violence," he declared, "is not
                    necessarily resistance to the Government." He defended the right of citizens to oppose the
                    administration in power and asked whether "peaceful conflict of opinion and argument
                    justify the administration in subjecting those who differ with it to military power?"26
            
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Journal, which usually expressed Morton's views, assailed the
                    "brilliantly copper plated sentiments" in Perkins' opinion, which it
                    characterized as "a monstrosity, a skeleton of treason clothed in judicial
                    arguments." The Journal was especially outraged by the suggestion that
                    arrests had been made for the purpose of suppressing legimate criticism. "No cross roads
                    spouter with an audience of two men and a dog, in an abandoned hog pen, ever uttered a more
                    shameless slander than this Judge," it shrieked. After the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court refused to review the decision of the military court which tried Clement
                    L. Vallandigham, the Journal predicted the same court would reverse
                    Perkins' decision in the Griffin case.27
            
            Perkins also outraged Republicans by denying the constitutionality of some of the financial measures
                    enacted by the wartime Congress. In fact, Indiana had its own version of the Legal Tender cases,
                    including an abrupt reversal of an earlier opinion, before these celebrated cases were decided by
                    the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court. The first case involving the power of Congress to make treasury notes
                    legal tender came before the Indiana Supreme Court early in the war, in 
                  
                     26
                            Griffin v. Wilcox, 21 Indiana Reports 389. In the course
                            of his opinion Perkins denied that the President had the right to suspend the privilege of
                            the writ of habeas corpus. This was the same position taken by Chief Justice Roger B. Taney
                            in the case of Ex parte Merryman (17 Fed. Cas. 144). Perkins also declared
                            that neither the President nor Congress had the power to suspend the issuance of the writ of
                            habeas corpus by a state court. 21 Indiana Reports 383.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily Journal, February 3, 1864. In another editorial on February 4, 1864,
                            the Journal declared that "after wriggling first to treason, then
                            to loyalty, the snake [Perkins] has at last got back to treason again." After the
                                Journal had published a series of virulent editorials against Perkins,
                            the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Daily State Sentinel, February 9, 1864, said that the rival newspaper was
                            evidently "affected with Perkins on the brain."
               
                     1862.28 The charter of the Bank of the State
                    of Indiana prohibited the bank from refusing to redeem its notes in gold or silver, but, after
                    Congress declared the treasury notes legal tender, the 
                        South Bend
                     branch of the bank refused to redeem a note in gold but offered instead to redeem it in
                    treasury notes. When the question as to the right of the bank to refuse payment in gold reached the
                    highest state court, it obviously created a dilemna for Judge Perkins, who wrote the majority
                    opinion. It is clear from his language, that, as a loyal Jacksonian and strict constructionist, he
                    viewed the legal tender notes with extreme distaste and thought the act of Congress unconstitutional
                    but feared the results if he rendered an opinion to that effect. He asserted that Congress could
                    exercise only such powers as were granted expressly or incidentally by the Constitution and added
                    "that if the proposition just stated is not true in every particular, then is our
                    government practically one of unlimited powers, and the constitution a delusive bauble."29 Nevertheless Congress had issued treasury notes and declared them legal
                    tender and thereby had clearly exceeded its powers in Perkins' view. The judge revealed his
                    dilemma when he admitted that "the disastrous consequences to the country that must follow
                    a denial of the validity" of the legislation, "press hard upon the judiciary to
                    sustain the violation of the constitution, if it be such…." But, on the other
                    hand, to sustain it would "create a precedent for further usurpations." He got
                    himself out of the difficulty by declaring that if the Indiana court were the court of last resort,
                    "the preservation of the constitution, in its letter and spirit, should be an object
                    outweighing…all considerations of temporary inconvenience." The final
                    determination of this question, however, did not lie with the state court but with the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court. Therefore, with obvious reluctance, Perkins upheld the act of Congress
                    making the treasury notes legal tender. "Such will be the ruling of this Court,"
                    he declared, "till the Federal Court shall determine the question otherwise."20
            
            
               
                  28
                        Reynolds v. Bank of the State of Indiana, 18 Indiana Reports
                        467 (1862).
               
                  29
                        Ibid., 470.
               
                  30
                        Ibid., 474-75.
            
            
            In a brief dissenting opinion Judge James M. Hanna met the issue more forthrightly and held
                    unconstitutional the act of Congress making treasury notes legal tender. "Professing to be
                    guided by the plain teaching of the constitution, and knowing in judicial decisions no higher
                    law," he declared, "I can not accord with the conclusion of the Court."
                    He found "that by the constitution the right is not vested in Congress to make a paper
                    named a legal tender in payment of private debts."31
            
            Two years later, when another case involving legal tender came before the court, Perkins cast aside
                    the restraint he had shown in 1862 and flatly declared that Congress had no power to pass such
                    legislation, but at the same time he again avoided overruling the lower court, which had upheld the
                    validity of the legal tender act.32 The case arose out of the question of
                    whether a promissory note, made after Congress had declared the treasury notes legal tender, could
                    be paid in them. The holder of the note refused to accept greenbacks and demanded payment in gold or
                    in treasury notes of a value equivalent to the market value of the gold, because the notes had
                    depreciated. In the 
                        Boone County
                     court, where the case was first heard, counsel for the plaintiff argued that if the
                    debtor had agreed to pay a horse, "the measure of the plaintiff's recovery would
                    have been the value of the horse." He asked: "Has this act [of Congress] so far
                    changed the law of contracts as to make a tender on such a contract good when the paper is 47 per
                    cent below par?"33 The county court upheld the plaintiff's
                    demand for the amount of the note but charged him for court costs since a legally valid repayment in
                    greenbacks had been offered by the defendant.
            In a long rambling opinion, which reviewed the history of money in the 
                        United States
                     and much of the history of federal-state relations as well, Perkins found the legal
                    tender provisions invalid when the case came before the state court. He declared that the act of
                    Congress, by making an article of no intrinsic value legal tender, impaired the obligation of 
                  
                            31
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     32
                            Thayer v. Hedges, 22 Indiana Reports 282 (1864).
                  
                     33
                            Thayer v. Hedges, Case No. 336, Box 609, Indiana Supreme
                            Court Papers.
               
                     contracts by compelling creditors to receive in discharge of
                    contracts less than half of the stipulated value. Furthermore, the act operated "as a fraud
                    on the public creditors and a hardship upon the honest public servants, by depreciating and debasing
                    the currency." Moreover the legislation had the effect of enabling the government to take
                    forced loans "without interest, against the will of the lender," and with
                    repayment of but part of the principal in depreciated currency.34 Perkins denied
                    that the power to make paper money legal tender was incidental to any other power of Congress. It
                    was not incidental to the power to borrow money because the power to borrow does not imply the power
                    "to make forced loans, to take the citizens [sic] property without his
                    consent, and without just cornpensation."35 It was the intention of the
                    framers of the Constitution, he contended, "to withhold this power of supplanting natural
                    money from the general government, and to strip the States of it, and thus extinguish it, and to
                    insure to the people and nation a sound currency forever."36
            
            Having thus impugned the validity of the act of Congress, Perkins still did not take the logical next
                    step and reverse the order of the lower court, which had held that the offer to pay in treasury
                    notes fulfilled the requirements of the note. Instead he said: 
                        Having fully presented the views of the court on the constitutional question, in which we
                            unanimously hold the legal tender provisions void, we shall as we did in the case of Reynolds v. The Bank of the State, 18 Ind. 467, and for
                            the reason there given…affirm the judgment below. We are advised that the
                            question is before the Supreme Court of the 
                                
                                    United States
                                
                            , the ultimate tribunal to settle it, and a petition for rehearing may, if the party
                            desires, keep open the question and save all rights as they may be finally settled by that
                                tribunal.37
                  
                    
            
            Perkins' opinion was delivered October 31, 1864, just after the Republicans had swept the
                    state in the October elections and he himself had been defeated for re-election. His opinion had
                    left the way open for a rehearing. Soon after 
                  
                     34
                            Thayer v. Hedges, 22 Indiana Reports 286.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., 303.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., 306.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., 310.
               
                     Perkins' retirement the new Republican judges,
                    declaring that since the earlier opinion "other judges have come upon the bench of this
                    court, whose duty it is to act upon the case," proceeded to deal with the case as if it had
                    never before been considered. They announced that they were "unanimous in holding an
                    opinion entirely different from that heretofore given by the learned judge
                    [Perkins]…." They agreed with Perkins that only the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court could make a final settlement of the question, but they expressed the
                    opinion that the legal tender act could be upheld under the power of Congress to borrow money and to
                    make all laws "necessary and proper" for carrying out the express powers of
                        Congress.38
            
            While Perkins apparently lacked the temerity to declare the legal tender law inoperative, he did
                    invalidate a portion of the wartime internal revenue act on the grounds that it had the effect of
                    encroaching upon the freedom of state courts. The law required the payment of a stamp tax on legal
                    documents and declared invalid those documents to which the stamp was not affixed. In a case
                    appealed from 
                        Elkhart County
                     Perkins ruled that Congress had no power to require the stamp on documents used in
                    state court proceedings.39 The purported tax, he declared, did not fall within
                    the power of Congress to levy direct taxes, duties or imposts, and excises; instead, it was
                    "a tax on the right to justice."40 It was manifestly the
                    intention of the Constitution, said Perkins, that state courts should exist, and this being so,
                    Congress had no power to encroach upon or control them. Developing the argumentum ad
                        horrendum, he said that if Congress could levy this tax it might require state legislatures
                    to stamp their bills, journals, and laws in order to make them valid. It 
                  
                     38
                            Thayer v. Hedges, 23 Indiana Reports 141 (1865).
                  
                     39
                            
                                
                                    Warren
                                
                             v. Paul, 22 Indiana Reports 276 (1864). The Internal Revenue Act of
                            June 30, 1864 (
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, XIII, 223), required a stamp tax on any writ or
                            other original process by which any suit was commenced in any court of law or equity. This
                            case involved the recovery of personal property. The lower court dismissed the suit because
                            the papers had not been stamped as required by the act of Congress. In the official report
                            of the 
                                Warren
                             case, the date of the national law is given incorrectly as July 4, 1864, which
                            was the date of the joint resolution imposing an income tax (
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, XIII, 417).
                  
                     40
                            
                                
                                    Warren
                                
                             v. Paul, 22 Indiana Reports 278.
               
                     might even require the executive of the state to stamp all
                    commissions. Perkins denied that Congress could "thus subjugate a State by
                    legislation." The federal government might, he thought, take most of the property in a
                    state by taxation if exigencies required it, but it did not have the right, "by direct or
                    indirect means, to annihilate the functions of the State government."41
            
            Perkins and the other Democratic justices were defeated in the 1864 election, which marked the
                    beginning of several years of Republican ascendancy in Indiana. But Perkins enjoyed a kind of
                    vindication—by both the voters of Indiana and the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court. In 1876 he was elected once more to the Indiana Supreme Court and was
                    serving on that bench when he died in 1879. More significantly, some of the constitutional doctrines
                    he had expounded during the war were affirmed by the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court in the postwar period. The same arguments which Perkins had used in the
                    Indiana legal tender cases were used by Chief Justice Salmon P. Chase in Hepburn
                    v. Griswold, which declared the legal tender legislation of 1862
                        unconstitutional.42 As is well known, this decision was reversed the
                    following year after two new justices were appointed to the court.43 Ironically,
                    Perkins himself reversed his position on paper money in the postwar years. Like most western
                    Democrats he abandoned his earlier hard money views and became an advocate of currency expansion.44
            
            But the principles which he set forth in the cases involving military arrests of civilians received a
                    lasting vindication in the Milligan case.45 During the war years the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court had refused to review the cases of any of the civilians who were tried in
                    military courts. In 1866, however, they accepted the appeal of Lambdin P. Milligan, who had been
                    convicted of treason by a military court in Indiana in 1864. In considering the question of the
                    extent of military 
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., 280-281.
                  
                     42
                            Hepburn v. Griswold, 8 Wallace 603 (1869).
                  
                     43 Legal Tender cases (
                                
                                    Knox
                                
                             v. Lee and Parker v. Davis), 12
                            Wallace 467 (1870).
                  
                     44 See, for example, his speech at 
                                Shelbyville
                            , Indiana, September 4, 1867, as reported in the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Herald, September 27, 1867.
                  
                     45
                            Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wallace 2 (1866).
               
                     jurisdiction during wartime, Judge David Davis admitted:
                    "During the late wicked Rebellion, the temper of the times did not allow that calmness in
                    deliberation and discussion so necessary to a correct conclusion of a purely judicial
                    question." But now that the war was over and the public danger was past, he said, the
                    question could be decided "without passion or the admixture of any element not required to
                    form a legal judgement."46 In language reminiscent of that which
                    Perkins had used in the Griffin case the court ruled that the military tribunal had not had
                    jurisdiction to try Milligan since the civil courts had been open and functioning and since Indiana
                    had not been invaded. "Martial rule," said Davis, "can never exist where
                    the courts are open, and in the proper and unobstructed exercise of their jurisdiction."47
            
            
               
                  46
                        Ibid., 109.
               
                  47
                        Ibid., 127.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Populist Response to Industrial America: Midwestern Populist Thought. By
                    Norman Pollack. (
                        Cambridge
                    : 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1962. Pp. 166. Notes, index. $3.50.)
            Populism was not retrogressive. It did not seek to return to an agrarian past. It faced up to the
                    realities of industrial and social change that came in the nineteenth century, and it sought
                    solutions to the problems resulting from that change. In its criticism of American capitalism and in
                    its program, Populism stands revealed as a truly radical force—that is the fundamental
                    thesis which Professor Pollack presents in this important little book. In support of his argument he
                    introduces evidence drawn from a wide variety of sources found largely in state libraries and in
                    other collections in the Middle West. While he focuses on middle western Populist thought, however,
                    he does not hesitate to make generalizations about the movement as a whole.
            Elaborating on his view that "Populism was a progressive social force" (p. 12),
                    Pollack shows middle western Populists concentrating their attention on problems arising from
                    industrialization. They opposed monopoly and the inequality of wealth which they thought resulted
                    from monopoly. Yet they were concerned with the consequences of economic power and not with the
                    personalities or motivations of captains of industry and finance. Their criticism, Pollack contends,
                    did not reflect a conspiracy theory of history but a desire to alter society in a radical direction.
                    Following the lead of Chester M. Destler, he shows how they sought to form a farmer-labor coalition.
                    That such a coalition failed to come about he attributes to labor conservatism rather than to any
                    reluctance on the part of Populists to pursue radical objectives.
            How radical was Populism? Pollack notes that Populists were not Marxists, but he is impressed with
                    parallels between the Populist and Marxist analyses of industrial society: both groups viewed
                    industrial capitalism as a force which alienated man from man; both saw tramps and vagabonds as a
                    symbol and a result of this alienation; both treated ideology as stemming from dominant group
                    interests; both attributed the same economic features to capitalism; both believed that capitalism
                    developed by a dialectical process and both thought in terms of a class struggle. Populist
                    radicalism is also evident in the rivalry between the People's party and the Socialist
                    Labor party. The attacks made by Socialist Labor leaders on the Populists were, according to
                    Pollack, sectarian attacks. Even the policy of fusion, which culminated in the nomination of Bryan
                    by the People's party, is here interpreted as a means of saving radicalism and not as a
                    capitulation to the Democrats.
            This is a stimulating book, one that provides a corrective to the view that Populism was
                    retrogressive and to the view that Populists were opportunistic and anti-Semitic crackpots. It does,
                    however, have its limitations, as Pollack himself recognizes. Because he does not attempt  to deal with southern Populists, his generalizations must be qualified.
                    More important, running through the book is the suggestion that Populism had an organic existence
                    apart from the individuals who contributed to it. While he admits that some Populists were more
                    "grass-roots" and more "rank-and-file" (whatever this means)
                    than others, the author seems to minimize individual differences in developing the theme of Populist
                    radicalism.
            Individual differences were nevertheless important. Bryan was nominated by the People's
                    party in 1896, as Pollack argues, because enough radical Populists believed that fusion served the
                    radical cause. Yet the consensus was not complete, and in part because of disagreements within the
                    party Tom Watson received the vice-presidential nomination in place of Arthur Sewall,
                    Bryan's running mate on the Democratic ticket. If the primary aim of Populists was to save
                    radicalism by defeating McKinley, it is difficult to see how they might have thought that
                    Watson's nomination could help them achieve their objective.
            Pollack demonstrates that most middle western Populists regarded the silver issue as a means to a
                    larger end. Yet he does not fully appreciate one of the significant realities of 1896: that the
                    silver forces had developed effective organizations which Populists were unable to control. One
                    finds in this work little recognition of the fact that—the silver issue as an economic
                    matter aside—the strength of silver organizations was one of the problems Populists had
                    to face. Certainly one finds no indication of why the silver movement became important independent
                    of Populist support.
            Although Pollack does develop his basic thesis with skill his book raises some significant questions.
                    The author does not pretend otherwise; he describes it as "a tentative first step toward
                    the more comprehensive analysis of industrial America" (p. 1). If this is a hint that he
                    will eventually attempt such an analysis himself, historians can look forward to the appearance of
                    what promises to be a major work.
            
                    Coe College
                
            Paul W. Glad
         
         
            
               John J. Crittenden: The Struggle for the Union. By Albert D. Kirwan. ([
                        Lexington
                    ]: University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, 1962. Pp. xii, 514. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $8.50.)
            John J. Crittenden was a member of the 
                        Kentucky
                     assembly, governor of that state, representative in Congress, cabinet official under
                    three presidents, and a "president-maker." Five times he was elected to full terms
                    in the 
                        United States
                     Senate (and to the unexpired term of Henry Clay) and was offered appointments to the
                    Supreme Court by John Quincy Adams and Abraham Lincoln. Yet it was ninety-nine years after his death
                    before a scholarly biography of this rather remarkable man appeared.
            This is a good biography: the research was extensive and intensive, the writing is clear and
                    unambiguous, and the balanced evaluations  seem well justified by
                    the evidence. It is somewhat ironic—but in keeping with the nature of the subject of the
                    work—that Crittenden on the printed page should still play a role secondary to 
                        Clay
                     and subordinate to the events of the later years of his own life. Kirwan speaks of the
                    irony in the life of Crittenden; perhaps he did not intend so clearly to perpetuate it.
            The volume is divided into three "books" which bear the headings, "
                        Clay
                    's Lieutenant," "Party Leader," and "The
                    Patriot." In the first, Crittenden is overshadowed by Clay; in the second, covering
                    approximately the ten years following the election of 1844, Crittenden periodically receives star
                    billing; in the third, he is the chief actor who sacrifices any and all personal ambition at the
                    altar of his "only passion," the preservation of the Union.
            Crittenden's ability, his military record, and his connections with the "great
                    families" of 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     were factors in his rapid political rise and continued success. He seems to have been
                    nearly always guided by principle and by his devotion to 
                        Clay
                    . It appears that he may have wanted to become president, but as long as there was a
                    possibility of 
                        Clay
                    's candidacy he suppressed what ambitions he may have had. With 
                        Clay
                    's failure in 1844, Crittenden became the congressional leader of the Whigs and
                    devoted his energies to grooming Zachary Taylor. When 
                        Clay
                     did become a candidate for nomination, Crittenden ceased his activities in
                    Taylor's behalf but the long, intimate relationship of the two Kentuckians cooled.
                    Crittenden's work for Taylor seems to represent a departure from principles—a
                    prostitution to availability—and Kirwan says that it was "almost a bizarre
                    spectacle … to see a man as knowledgeable and as devoted to party as Crittenden choosing
                    and grooming for the Presidency one as ignorant of party principles as Taylor" (p. 478).
            Crittenden was not always a party man. He supported Stephen A. Douglas in the Lecompton controversy,
                    and he viewed the rising Republican party as a threat to the Union. He was a Constitutional Unionist
                    in the late 1850's and denounced both major parties for their actions on and reactions to
                    the slavery issue. He devoted every fiber of himself to his famous compromise proposals of late
                    1860, but the failure of Lincoln to give his approval to these helped send them down to defeat.
            A very able lawyer, a warm friend, a devoted family man, a superior debater and speaker, an almost
                    unparalleled lover of the Union, Crittenden might well have risen to greater heights had he been
                    more politically conscious of the "imperative now."
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Chase C. Mooney
         
         
            
               Theodore Dreiser: Our Bitter Patriot. By Charles Shapiro. Crosscurrents Series. Edited by Harry T. Moore. (
                        Carbondale
                    : 
                        Southern Illinois
                     University Press, 1962. Pp. xv, 137. Notes, index. $4.50.)
            Critical opinion concerning Dreiser has often tended toward extremes: he is a careless writer of
                    chaotic sociological novels or a producer of immoral stories (some years ago the Indiana State
                    Library  refused to purchase any of his works), or he stands at
                    the top of American fiction. It is encouraging, therefore, to encounter a book which avoids these
                    excesses, carefully analyzing his fiction to determine frankly its faults and virtues. Such a study
                    is this readable yet scholarly work by Charles Shapiro. Though fairly short, it claims to be the
                    first book devoted entirely to Dreiser's fiction rather than to his life. Works other than
                    fiction are disregarded.
            Shapiro's purpose, as indicated in the Introduction, is "to understand all of
                    Dreiser's novels in terms of underlying themes which serve as foundations for each book
                    …. to demonstrate that Dreiser was an artist with a purpose, a writer who conceived and
                    executed his work as a result of that purpose. Seeing America as a country emerging from its youth,
                    he was concerned about a culture which … perverted the worthwhile institutions of the
                    society and robbed the individuals of the chance to live up to their full, inherent
                    potentialities" (p. xiii).
            Dreiser is viewed as one of the best American novelists, who powerfully presented his attitude toward
                    our national life through carefully planned, artistic, and beautiful novels. Thus, in Sister Carrie several persons are corrupted by the claims of a false American dream; and
                    in Jennie Gerhardt two families, each decent but of widely different social
                    levels, decay because of social pressures. The trilogy composed of The Financier, The
                        Stoic, and The Titan portrays the futile ruthless-ness of American
                    business life; The "Genius" studies the forces harming the
                    creativity of the artist; and The Bulwark shows the failure of religion adequately
                    to solve problems when morality and business collide. An American Tragedy is the
                    epitome of all Dreiser's fiction because in it are found all the themes of his other
                    novels. The short stories are inferior, for they often seem to be compressed novels, demonstrating
                    defects more easily. For example, "Free" is an artistic failure. Throughout
                    Shapiro's book, Dreiser's qualities are seen as concern with sadness, bitterness,
                    human failure, and yet courage amid tragedy—all mixed with a feeling of wonder and
                    sympathy for the characters, though not necessarily approval.
            Although Shapiro's judgments are not always new, they seem to be valid, as in his contention
                    that the The "Genius" is a failure and An American
                        Tragedy the most successful novel. Now and then someone may disagree, as, for instance,
                    with the statement that The Financier is "the best fictional study of the
                    American businessman" (p. 44). But Shapiro gives fair coverage of Dreiser's
                    faults, such as pompous preaching, over-moralizing, awkward, sophomoric passages, boring asides, and
                    failure to capture speech patterns. The author gives evidence of wide reading of other Dreiser
                    critics, from whom the reader may think that he quotes too copiously. Yet, though the book may not
                    add spectacularly to knowledge, it is an important, compact addition to Dreiser criticism.
            
                    DePauw University
                
            Arthur W. Shumaker
         
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Prairie
                         Albion: An English Settlement In Pioneer 
                            Illinois
                        . By Charles Boewe. (
                        Carbondale
                    : 
                        Southern Illinois
                     University Press, 1962. Pp. ix, 317. Illustrations, bibliography, notes.
                    $10.00.)
            Two friends, prosperous, articulate and well-traveled English farmers, were each discontented with
                    his own circumstances and mutually concerned about the plight of English farmers in 1816. Ready to
                    move elsewhere, they selected the 
                        United States
                     as the only country left for immigration. George Flower, the younger of the two,
                    extensively scouted the newly chosen land, and in 
                        Virginia
                     was joined by Morris Birkbeck's party early in 1817. From 
                        Richmond
                    , this group of ten novice immigrants traveled overland for the next four months to the
                    prairies of southern 
                        Illinois
                    . Seventy miles north of Shawneetown they chose 3,000 acres of "beautiful and
                    rich" prairie land as their final destination. Here on the English 
                        Prairie
                    , during the next decade, the two original proprietors, whose friendship was soon
                    severed, waged a continuous battle against the frontier and the critics who, in increasing numbers,
                    visited their popular and well-publicized settlement. The words of the actual participants and
                    observers edited, as the author certifies, "in the interest of the general
                    reader," tell the story of Prairie Albion.
            
            A reader, uninitiated into the cult of the frontier, will particularly enjoy this desirable addition
                    to the literature of Americana. Interesting "foreign" observations on the American
                    character, brief discussions of social issues, hasty peeks at frontier towns, and discerning travel
                    episodes crowd their way into the narrative. Both the neophyte and the veteran will find something
                    new in the many vignettes of pioneer life which spark the accounts of settler and observer alike.
                    That these tidbits evade ready detection without canvassing much of the book may be disconcerting to
                    the seasoned arm-chair frontiersman—there is no index or topical reference.
            A frontier "buff" will readily acknowledge the facility with which the author has
                    bridged the diverse accounts with editorial comments. He will be grateful too, that the little-known
                    story of this unique settlement has been added to the annals of the Old Northwest. He will possibly
                    regret that the contemporary reporters did not write more about the settlement itself, for too often
                    the reader loses touch with physical Albion. He will at times lose his sense of chronological
                    location though the total time encompassed is relatively short. He may even generally conclude that
                        Prairie Albion is much old wine in a new bottle.
            A Hoosier will find his interest sporadically piqued by brief descriptions of early
                    nineteenth-century 
                        Princeton
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                     and the Rapp and Owen settlements at 
                        Harmony
                     and 
                        New Harmony
                    , upon which the people of Albion depended so much for supplies. He may be gratified,
                    possibly even envious, to learn that contrary to reports in 
                        England
                     that the early inhabitants of Indiana were "lawless, semi-barbarous vagabonds,
                    dangerous to live among," Birkbeck reported that "the laws are respected and
                    effectual, and the manners of the people are kind and gentle to each other and to
                    strangers" (p. 35).
            
                    Indiana State College
                
            Donald B. Scheick
         
         
         
            
               A Banner in the Hills: 
                            West Virginia
                        's Statehood. By George Ellis Moore. (
                        New York
                    : Appleton-Century-Crofts, 1963. Pp. xii, 256. Maps, notes, appendixes, index.
                    $5.00.)
            In this brief book George E. Moore, professor of government at Slippery Rock State College, attempts
                    to present the story of secession and Civil War in the western counties of the Old Dominion and to
                    trace the steps by which the state of West Virignia was created and admitted to the Union. He limits
                    his attention primarily to the years 1860-1863 and almost exclusively to political and military
                    factors. On the whole he has accomplished his purpose quite well.
            Some effort is made in the first thirty pages to summarize the long history of conflict between the
                    western and eastern sections of 
                        Virginia
                     prior to 1860. Unless one dares to assume that the reading public is well informed on
                    the decades of political controversy between these sections, the rather sketchy background provided
                    in this book must be regarded as a serious defect. For example, it has long been thought that the
                    antislavery sentiment of the Methodist Episcopal church was a fact of tremendous importance, and
                    even today one hears it said that the "Methodists made 
                        West Virginia
                    ." Professor Moore, however, merely states that "the region was
                    generously supplied with churches, half of which were Methodist and one fifth of which were
                    Baptist" (p. 11) and on the same page adds that "the clergy of the Methodist
                    Episcopal Church denounced slavery and slaveholders." Hardly more attention is given to the
                    nationalistic legacy of the Jacksonian Democrats or to the influence of pro-Union newspapers.
            One reason for the neglect of historical background is probably to be found in the author's
                    view that "there was, to be sure, the tradition of an ancient quest for political
                    independence, but if the 'insurrection' had ended within ninety days …
                    there would have been no new state" (p. xi). The war did not end in ninety days and there
                    was a new state made out of 
                        Virginia
                    —but not out of 
                        Missouri
                     or 
                        Illinois
                     or Indiana—and thus the "tradition of an ancient quest for
                    political independence" in western 
                        Virginia
                     deserves much more attention than it is given in this book.
            Chapters IV, V, VI, VIII, XIII, XIV, and XIX deal with political maneuvers and describe the various
                    conventions whereby the secession of 
                        Virginia
                     from the Union, the separation of 
                        West Virginia
                     from 
                        Virginia
                    , and the organization of a new state were effected. The other chapters recount the
                    military operations in western 
                        Virginia
                     from the Battle of Philippi in 1861 to the failure of the Confederate raiders in 1863.
                    Professor Moore is at his best in showing the relationship, all too often neglected, of events on
                    the field of battle to those in conventions and congresses.
            The footnotes are listed at the end of the book and are followed by appendixes which include the
                    texts of various proclamations, declarations, and addresses. There is no bibliography. The jacket
                    states that "this book has the official endorsement and sponsorship of the 
                        West Virginia
                     Centennial Commission."
            
                    Davis and Elkins College
                
            Thomas Richard Ross
         
         
         
            
               The Rise of the Dairy Industv in 
                            Wisconsin
                        : A Study in Agricultural Change, 1820-1920. By Eric E. Lampard. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1963. Pp. xii, 466. Map, tables, notes, bibliography, appendix, index.
                    $6.00.)
            Agricultural history has never achieved its rightful place in American historiography or in the study
                    of the nation's economic development. There is growing evidence, however, that this
                    situation is gradually being corrected. One of the best current examples of a significant volume in
                    agricultural history is the book under review. Comprehensive in scope, thorough in research, clear
                    in expression, and solid in interpretation, Eric E. Lampard's study of dairying in 
                        Wisconsin
                     makes a distinct contribution to both agricultural history and the more general
                    economic history of the Midwest. Moreover, it contributes to a better understanding of economic
                    development.
            The author lays the background for a consideration of 
                        Wisconsin
                    's dairy industry by discussing the settlement of 
                        Wisconsin
                     and its early search for agricultural stability and prosperity. Wheat became the main
                    cash crop before 1860 and continued to contest for pre-eminence until it went into permanent decline
                    after 1880. Although the early settlers had a few cows, dairying was initially a household and
                    seasonal business handled largely by farm women. The resulting butter and cheese were of uncertain
                    quality and sales were largely confined to local markets.
            Under the leadership of several enterprising dairymen, however, an increasing number of farmers had
                    turned to commercial dairying by the time of the Civil War. The associated dairy system, where
                    farmers delivered their milk to a central plant, was begun in 
                        Wisconsin
                     during the 1860's. Within a few years cheese production had moved from the
                    farm to the factory, and by the late 1880's commercial creameries were producing most of
                    the state's market butter. Once committed to dairy specialization, farmers saw the need to
                    increase their efficiency. This was done by adopting scientific principles of feeding and breeding
                    and by emphasizing improvements in farm management. To the dairyman farming became a business
                    wherein he sought to decrease his unit cost and maximize his profit. Surpluses were almost a
                    constant problem for 
                        Wisconsin
                     dairymen in the late nineteenth century, but under pressure from manufacturers
                    standards were raised to assure higher quality products and to expand potential markets. Farmers
                    often opposed public health measures and quality standards—an indication that they did
                    not recognize their own best long-run interests.
            It is interesting to learn that 
                        Wisconsin
                     dairy farmers tried to meet their problems through better business methods. Dairymen,
                    for example, did not have much faith in the Populist solutions to agriculture's ills and
                    relied more heavily on education, science, and improved farm practices to solve their difficulties.
                    They did turn to government for protection against the competition of oleomargine, but free silver
                    and government ownership of railroads seemed to have had little appeal for them. Rather than turning
                    to party politics, dairymen used the techniques of modern business lobbies to achieve their
                    objectives.
            After 1900 dairying became the dominant type of farming in 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Moreover, on the basis of commodities, processing of dairy  products was the state's leading industry by 1920, emphasizing
                    the close relation and interdependence between agriculture and industry. Dairy farming and dairy
                    manufacturing provided a sound base for 
                        Wisconsin
                    's economic growth. The importance of the role of markets in economic
                    development is clearly shown in this study.
            Professor Lampard has set an enviable example to others who are interested in writing similar state
                    or regional studies. The history of agriculture is important for its own sake, but it takes on new
                    and more meaningful dimensions when it is fitted into a broader economic context as has been done so
                    well in The Rise of the Dairy Industry in 
                            Wisconsin
                        . This volume is a worthy winner of the David Clark Everest Prize in 
                        Wisconsin
                     Economic History.
            
                    University of 
                            Oklahoma
                        
               
                
            Gilbert C. Fite
         
         
            
               Moorings Old and New: Entries in an Immigrant's Log. By Paul Knaplund.
                    Foreword by Merle Curti. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1963. Pp. x, 276. Maps, illustrations, appendix, index. $4.00.)
            This delightful book by an historian famous for his study of the British Empire—Professor
                    Paul Knaplund—is a highly sensitive work wherein the author expresses his deep feelings
                    for Norway, the land of his birth, and for the 
                        United States
                    , the country to which he came at the age of twenty-one and in which he made his
                    academic reputation. The author discusses two moorings important to a fisher-farmer lad turned
                    immigrant, one in the Old World and the other in the New.
            The first part of the book deals with Norway and contains many magnificently written passages
                    descriptive of the author's birthplace north of the Arctic Circle. It is an excellent
                    account of the lives and institutions of his family and neighbors during a period when Norway first
                    marched down the road of independence. Knaplund describes the close affinity of the Norwegian people
                    with the land and sea and shows how he was molded by both the people and the landscape as a
                    reverence for God, sea, mountains, land, and family became vital to him during formative years. As a
                    young man, he was thrilled by the tales and myths of his country and had a deep religious feeling
                    instilled in him by his parents and by the Haugeaner movement. He loved the snugness provided at the
                    old mooring. Yet an insatiable desire to receive an education denied in 
                        Norway
                     caused him to weigh anchor and set sail upon a sea of doubts and problems until he
                    found safe harbor within the walls of the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    .
            In the intervening period, Knaplund personified the story of the Norwegian youth in the Middle West,
                    who, supplied with a limited education and no English, strove to reach the academic heights. He
                    tells of the loneliness of the immigrant and of the problems inherent in adjusting to new horizons
                    and to new landscapes. He discusses Norwegian immigrants whom he knew, such as Hans Christ and the
                    Rev. H. J. Berg, and the effect that immigration had had upon their  characters. Sometimes Knaplund approaches Ole Rölvaag in his
                    sympathetic understanding of those Norwegians who found neither a safe nor a happy port in the New
                    World.
            Of special interest is the evaluation of the contribution of the small religious colleges and
                    seminaries to both the making of Americans and the preserving of Mother-Country ties. Red Wing
                    Seminary, now defunct but then operated by the Norwegian Synod of the Lutheran church, took the
                    young immigrant to its breast and nurtured him and thus gave him the academic start needed. The
                    basis laid by the grassroots institution was sufficient to enable him to pursue further studies
                    which ultimately led to a doctorate and to a full professorship at the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    . The tiny seminary and the great university plus sympathy and aid from friends provided
                    the lad from Norway with magic opportunities beyond his fondest dreams. The story of Paul
                    Knaplund's journey from one mooring to another indeed illustrates the great promise that
                    the 
                        United States
                     held out to Europeans. It also shows that the fulfillment of the dream was not to be
                    gained by the asking. One had to work long and diligently to realize the full promise of America, or
                    the new mooring might be even more to the windward than was the old one.
            Professor Knaplund writes his story in the third person but does not handle this medium as well as
                    did Henry Adams. In addition the saga contains some repetitions. Notwithstanding these minor faults,
                    the book is valuable. It can be compared favorably with Logbook of a Young
                    Immigrant by another historian, Laurence M. Larson. Moorings Old and New is
                    delightful and reminds one of the charm and sensitivity of another search for a new mooring, one
                    made by that charming Scandinavian woman turned American, Gro Svendson. Like Knaplund, she too met
                    the challenge of the New World with faith, hope, and courage and not with whimpers and cries of
                    despair.
            
                    Coe College
                
            John J. Murray
         
         
            
               Timber and Men: The Weyerhaeuser Story. By Ralph W. Hidy, Frank Ernest Hill, and
                    Allan Nevins. (
                        New York
                    : The Macmillan Company, 1963. Pp. xiv, 704. Illustrations, notes, appendixes,
                    bibliography, index. $12.00.)
            This book is an account of the origin and growth of closely associated enterprises in the production
                    and sale of timber, lumber, and wood products. The central core of the work is a description of the
                    business activity of Frederick Weyerhaeuser, his associates, and their descendents through four
                    generations. Interwoven with this narrative are discussions of subjects related to lumber and
                    milling activities, including corporate structure, transportation, housing and camps, river rights,
                    land purchases, governmental relationships, mechanization of industry, trade associations, labor,
                    utilization of waste, and conservation.
            At 
                  Rock Island, Illinois
               , on a day in 1856, Frederick Weyerhaeuser, a
                    twenty-one-year-old German immigrant employed as a mill hand, sold sixty dollars worth of lumber
                    without authority, but at a good  profit, while his employer was
                    at lunch. Young Weyerhaeuser was taken into management by his employer and soon owned the business
                    in partnership with another German, Frederick Denkmann. This was the beginning of an association
                    eventually including many other people and continuing through succeeding generations to the present.
                    Surviving the American Civil War, two world wars, and periods of panic and depression, the
                    Weyerhaeuser Company became a nation-wide business having gross sales of $457,916,000 and
                    net profits of $47,751,000 in 1960. Until recent years the associated companies
                    functioned autonomously, being held together by a genuine respect for the business judgment and fair
                    dealing of the Weyerhaeuser associates and their descendents and by some interlocking ownership of
                    stock.
            From the small beginning at 
                        Rock Island
                    , the story of the growth of the Weyerhaeuser interests is one of a search for timber:
                    first, for white pine in 
                        Wisconsin
                     and 
                        Minnesota
                    , then for southern pine in Louisana and 
                        Arkansas
                    , and finally for Douglas fir, Ponderosa pine, white pine, and less valuable timber in 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        Idaho
                    . With expansion, additional capital was obtained by retaining profits, by recruiting
                    new associates, and recently by the sale of stock to the general public.
            The Weyerhaeuser group kept pace with changes in the industry involving mechanization,
                    transportation, marketing, labor relations, and conservation. From the beginning the associates were
                    concerned about employee welfare with respect to wages, working conditions, and housing and camp
                    facilities. While opposed to unionization, they accepted it and have had reasonable success with it.
                    A common marketing policy emerged slowly. It embraced advertising, sales aids for agents and
                    dealers, and the grading and branding of lumber. Large distribution centers for western lumber
                    products were established along the east coast and in the central states.
            Weyerhaeuser interests in conservation are known outside the industry as a result of an effective and
                    sustained advertising campaign. The associates were in advance of the industry and public
                    conservation agencies in providing fire protection, utilizing lumber waste, instituting sustained
                    yield operations, and employing tree farming. Research was conducted by the associates, and
                    university schools of forestry were supported financially. Currently the Weyerhaeuser Company is
                    growing more board feet of timber annually than it is cutting. The total conservation program of the
                    company was accomplished partly through its independent efforts and partly through cooperation with
                    governmental agencies after a public conservation and timber management policy finally came into
                    being.
            This book is history, impartially written, not corporate propaganda. It is well written and sustains
                    the reader's interest. The documentation is excellent. Ample notes are provided at the
                    close of each chapter, and eighty-three pages of appendixes, mostly statistical, appear at the end.
                    The wide range of personalities, places, and activities dealt with by the authors cannot be covered
                    in this brief review.
            
                    Davis and Elkins College
                
            Evan R. Kek
         
         
         
            
               The Road to Independence: A Documentary History of the Causes of the American
                        Revolution, 1763-1776. By John Braeman. (
                        New York
                    : G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1963. Pp. vi, 314. Notes, bibliography.
                    $6.50.)
            
                    
                        We have made an examination of the book published under the above title, including
                            the Table of Contents, the Preface, the Introduction, and the Select Bibliography. Our
                            examination was made in accordance with generally accepted critical standards and,
                            accordingly, included such tests of the printed documents and such other sampling processes
                            as we considered necessary in the circumstances.
                    
                    
                        In our opinion the documents included in this book are accurately reproduced and
                            they adequately serve to illustrate the title chosen by the author.
                    
                
            Any resemblance between the statement above and a certified public accountant's letter of
                    transmittal accompanying an annual audit is purely intentional. It has struck me that the tasks of
                    reviewing a collection of documents and of auditing financial records are not at all dissimilar. The
                    raw materials speak for themselves. After one has vouched for their authenticity there is little
                    more to say.
            One might ask, of course, why another book is added to an already crowded field, but this is after
                    all, the publisher's business, not the reveiwer's. It is true that this book is
                    intended "primarily for the interested general reader and student" in contrast to
                    such works as Merrill Jensen's American Colonial Documents to 1776, which
                    has probably attracted very few general readers. Still, the documents are the same in both books.
                    One can print them in greater or lesser quantity and on better or poorer paper, but one cannot
                    honestly change their character.
            If there is any such being as a general reader interested in working his way through three hundred
                    pages of documents, Braeman's book ought to please him. The excerpts themselves are
                    interesting, consisting as they do of the less arid stretches in the official statutes,
                    proclamations, and resolutions, intermingled with such lively eyewitness testimonies as Jared
                    Ingersoll's report on the Stamp Act debate in Parliament and John Adams'
                    triumphant letter to his wife recounting the passage by the Continental Congress of his May 15,
                    1776, resolution, which he felt to be a true declaration of independence. Furthermore, this skeletal
                    framework is fleshed out with connective tissue in the form of the author's running
                    narrative, which supplies the missing parts and makes the documents themselves more intelligible.
            The most valuable part of Braeman's book, however, is Chapter I, actually entitled
                    "Introduction," in which not a single document appears. Here, Professor Braeman
                    has put together the best essay on the changing historical interpretations of the American
                    Revolution that one can find in the short span of eleven pages. It could well be required reading
                    for courses in historiography. Out of this essay, however, grows my principal criticism of the
                    remainder of Braeman's book. He describes the "neo-Whig" school of
                    interpreters so lucidly that his own membership in that group becomes obvious through his subsequent
                    selection of documents. The neo-Whigs stand squarely upon taxation without  representation as the cause of the American Revolution, and all of
                    Braeman's documents are chosen to bear upon that theme. He includes no excerpts to
                    illustrate the frontiersmen's grievances against the tidewater aristocracy, nor the
                    Puritans' fear of an Anglican episcopacy. Except for Thomas Whately's essay in
                    defense of parliamentary taxation there is nothing to represent the extensive English and Tory
                    literature on the other side of the issue, nor is there anything to suggest the world context in
                    which the imperial quarrel developed. In other words, the road to independence down which Braeman
                    points is a straight and narrow path.
            A very serious deficiency in the make-up of this book is the fact that the selected documents are not
                    listed in the table of contents. There is no index, of course, but the book does end with a
                    "select bibliography," which is select to the point of discrimination. It contains
                    sixty titles, among which are most of the excellent new studies that have appeared since 1940, but
                    one notes with some concern the absence of works by George L. Beer, Edward Channing, Arthur L.
                    Cross, H. J. Eckenrode, Evarts B. Greene, Marcus W. Jernegan, Charles H. Lincoln, Charles H.
                    McIlwain, and Winfred T. Root.
            
                    Otterbein College
                
            Lynn W. Turner
         
         
            
               Prelude to Yorktown: The Southern Campaign of Nathanael Greene, 1780-1781. By M.
                    F. Treacy. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1963. Pp. vi, 261. Maps, notes, bibliography, index. $6.00.)
            
               Prelude to Yorktown is a delight to read! The dust jacket claim that the men who
                    fought 
                        Greene
                    's southern campaign "come alive" in Mrs. Treacy's
                    account is no exaggeration. The author is at her best in assessing personality, character, and the
                    human relations of a military campaign. She is also at her best—from the very first
                    page—in describing the varied and formidable Carolina terrain and just how it felt to
                    fight, march, and bivouac during a steaming Low Country summer or a cold and rainy Piedmont winter.
            Possessing a background of family and personal connections with professional military men, Mrs.
                    Treacy, a recent University of 
                        Utah
                     Ph.D. in history, brings skill and clarity to the treatment of military history. Her
                    talents converge in the section on the Battle of Cowpens, the high point of the book. Writing from
                    her viewpoint that the 
                        Greene
                     campaign was essentially partisan in character ("I will equip a flying army
                    … and make a kind of partizan war"—
                        Greene
                     to Washington, quoted on page 196), the author places great emphasis on the factor of
                    leadership. 
                        Greene
                    's failure ever to win a battle (despite winning the over-all campaign) she
                    traces to his lack of the "imponderable quality" of leadership (p. 200). Hence, 
                        Greene
                    's well-laid plans (as at 
                        Guilford
                     Courthouse) were nullified by his inability to exact the fullest devotion from the
                    independent-minded and often faltering militia and from the stouter but still imperfect
                    Continentals. The old frontier brawler, Daniel Morgan, was no democrat, but, says Mrs. Treacy, he
                    understood  his men, had the common touch, and possessed the
                    intangible quality of leadership. Hence, he gained the flawless fighting performance of his soldiers
                    that, along with his flawless battle plan, wrought the miracle of Cowpens. Indeed, it is not 
                        Greene
                     but Morgan who emerges as the model and hero of the book. Not only is the Cowpens
                    episode vividly related, but Mrs. Treacy's fresh and persuasive explanation of why Morgan
                    fought where and when he did is perhaps the most important
                    contribution of the book. Rather than give it away here, let the reader himself turn to pages 89-90
                    of Prelude to Yorktown.
            
            Although there are many penetrating insights as Mrs. Treacy follows the 
                        Greene
                     campaign to Guilford Courthouse, the treatment of the strategic factor is uneven and
                    not up to the literary quality or the feeling for the human element that are notable features of the
                    book. To the understanding of strategic matters the author makes scant contribution except to
                    underline the partisan nature of the campaign and to dwell on the leadership aspect. It is
                    unfortunate also that Mrs. Treacy uses her bibliography to cast aspersions on the work of several
                    able and reputable historians, since, although solid and professional, her own research is not
                    perfect and does reveal some surprising omissions—e.g., Edward
                    McCrady's monumental History of 
                            South Carolina
                         in the Revolution (2 vols., 1901-1902) and Anne King Gregorie's
                    nearly definitive Thomas Sumter (1931).
            
                    Rutgers University
                
            Richard Maxwell Brown
         
         
            
               The Papers of John C. Calhoun. Volume 11, 1817-1818. Edited by
                    W. Edwin Hemphill. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        South Carolina
                     Press, for the South Caroliniana Society, 1963. Pp. xciv, 613. Illustration, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $10.00.)
            Few Americans have had as extensive an experience in government as had John C. Calhoun, congressman,
                    secretary of war, vice-president for two terms, senator, secretary of state, and perennial but ever
                    unsuccessful candidate for the Democratic presidential nomination. He served his nation in an
                    official capacity for four decades—from his election to the House of Representatives as a
                    War Hawk in 1810 (after a brief tenure in the 
                        South Carolina
                     legislature) until his death in 1850 shortly before the Senate passed the great
                    compromise of that year. Richard Crallé edited six volumes of Calhoun's works
                    soon after his death, and as long ago as 1900 the American Historical Association published two
                    volumes of letters to and from him. The current project of the South Caroliniana Society is a
                    full-dress publication of Calhoun papers the bulk of which have long been in print.
            The late Robert L. Meriwether edited the first volume which includes one-hundred-and-fifty-nine
                    documents and some abstracts covering a sixteen-year period. Edwin Hemphill now has edited the
                    second volume for a short eight-month period when Calhoun became secretary of war, from December,
                    1817, to July, 1818. Three thousand of his papers are summarized; two hundred are printed in full,
                    but only a dozen written by Calhoun and personally signed by him are included.  At this rate, instead of the original estimate of a total of fifteen
                    volumes the project will require twice that number.
            Scholars will always quibble about the proper method of editing the papers of a prominent figure, but
                    many roads lead to 
                        Rome
                    . This volume actually tells little about the man, but it is a detailed study of the
                    department he administered. Documents already published are simply summarized, and two out of three
                    of the letters printed here are often inconsequential and routine epistles addressed to him. The
                    text is preceded by an excellent, incisive one-hundred-page introduction describing
                    Calhoun's conduct of his department and the political ramifications thereof. Many
                    historians will agree that an analysis of an important executive department in such a crucial era is
                    worth the effort. William E. Dodd pronounced Calhoun the best secretary of war until Franklin Pierce
                    appointed Jefferson Davis to that post in mid-century. William Lowndes in 1819 wrote from 
                        England
                     that his 
                        South Carolina
                     friend was much superior to Lord Palmerston, then serving in the same capacity in the
                    British cabinet. This period in Calhoun's career, when he was an archnationalist, has often
                    been neglected by his biographers.
            Even the informed reader will find most of the contents of this book dull. Calhoun as secretary of
                    war was a vigorous bureaucrat in an important post—he regarded the Treaty of Ghent as
                    only a truce in a critical struggle with 
                        England
                     certain to be resumed at any moment. It is obvious that he was an eager beaver and that
                    he was a man doing a job he thought had to be done; but the Calhoun papers of this period reveal
                    little of that intriguing ambivalence of personality with which he was endowed.
            In general I would question the value to the historical profession of the current re-editing of the
                    works of Thomas Jefferson, Benjamin Franklin, and Calhoun, particularly in view of the fact that
                    such work has already been adequately done. In my opinion, little that is significant has been added
                    by the tomes now pouring from the presses. The papers of important figures like Thomas Hart Benton,
                    Martin Van Buren, and Stephen A. Douglas, were they made available, would be of far more service.
                    Nor do these new editions shed much additional light on the fundamental question in regard to their
                    subjects, namely "what is he to Hecuba or Hecuba to him?"
            
                    Tulane University
                
            Gerald M. Capers
         
         
            
               The Larkin Papers: Personal, Business, and Official Correspondence of Thomas Oliver
                        Larkin, Merchant and 
                            United States
                         Consul in 
                            California
                        . Volume VIII, 1848-1851. Edited by George P. Hammond.
                    (Berkeley: University of 
                        California
                     Press, 1962. Pp. xxix, 420. Illustrations, notes. $10.00.)
            It was just over ten years ago when George P. Hammond's first volume of The
                        Larkin Papers was published. New 
                        England
                    -born Thomas Oliver Larkin arrived at the tiny village of Yerba Buena on 
                        San Francisco
                     Bay in 1832. The following year he moved to Monterey, the  capital of 
                        Mexico
                    's 
                        Alta California
                    . Before he died in 1868, Larkin had become one of the Golden State's richest
                    and most respected citizens. During his residence there he was a hide merchant, land speculator, and 
                        United States
                     consul at 
                        Monterey
                     (1844-1848). In the latter capacity Larkin played a critical role during the tense days
                    of 1846. He was rather unsympathetic with the gasconade of such noisy patriots as the Bear Flag
                    adventurers. The practical New Englander realized that a transition from the absurdly inoperative
                    Mexican authority to 
                        United States
                     occupation, and administration, was but a matter of time. In light of his prominence
                    and wide-ranging activities, one can only regret that typhoid stilled his hand at the age of
                    fifty-six. Today Larkin's papers are a basic key for unlocking 
                        California
                    's most dramatic decade. These years witnessed the eclipse of the land-rich and
                    relatively content rancheros by the gold-intoxicated, real estate-hungry, mercantilistic Yankees:
                    men who doubtless could have seized 
                        California
                     without Robert F. Stockton, Stephen W. Kearney, and John C. Frémont.
            Volume VIII of The Larkin Papers spans the years 1848-1851. In the preceding volume
                    readers observed the initial gold seekers. In the Preface to Volume VIII the editor notes that, by
                    mid-1848, "so fast did the change take place, so sudden was the invasion, and so great its
                    magnitude, that not many realized what had happened or were able to cope with it." Larkin
                    was able to do so, and his fortune rose accordingly. This is the theme of the present volume. The
                    first document is dated October 2, 1848, the last May 15, 1851. Between these dates gold fever
                    spread over the nation, 
                        San Francisco
                     boomed, and 
                        California
                     was admitted to the Union. Many a researcher will wish that "paisano"
                    Larkin had been a more voluminous recorder of these stirring scenes. Readers are hardly aware of his
                    role in the notable 
                        California
                     Constitutional Convention of 1849 in which participated such "old
                    Californians" as Mariano G. Vallejo, John A. Sutter, and Abel Stearns. These latter names
                    do occasionally appear in the Papers. Only rarely, however, is there
                    correspondence with such national personalities as Henry Clay, Thomas Hart Benton, Gideon Welles,
                    and James Buchanan.
            Too good a Yankee to waste many words on the social and political scene, Larkin devoted his records
                    primarily to business and family matters. But notable exceptions to this habit make digging in the
                        Papers a rewarding experience. For example, a letter to Secretary of State
                    Buchanan details the quantities of gold which miners had torn from the ground. "Could you
                    know the value of the 
                        California
                     Placer", writes Larkin, "as I know it you would think you had been
                    instrumental in obtaining a most splendid purchase for our country, to put no other construction on
                    the Treaty" (p. 38). Others, however, had tasted their full measure of western adventure.
                    As one bemoaned: "I have learned my lesson at too great price in the last ten months. Give
                    me a very small Pile and I will leave these diggings for the Old Bay State…. this country
                    is a perfect hell without money" (p. 329).
            As in the earlier volumes, 
                        Hammond
                     has drawn almost exclusively from Larkin documents in the Bancroft Library of the
                    University of 
                        California
                    , Berkeley. This is the only really grave citicism which can be made of his genuinely
                    outstanding contribution. As a means of  compensation, those
                    readers who have not already done so are urged to acquaint themselves with the selectively
                    comprehensive, one-volume collection of Larkin papers edited by John A. Hawgood—First and Last Consul (1962). Hawgood's work is based for the most part
                    on material deposited in the Henry E. Huntington Library, 
                  San
                        Marino, California
               , and is a
                    mandatory supplement to 
                        Hammond
                    's great undertaking.
            Three volumes remain to be published in The Larkin Papers. None of the eight
                    volumes thus far published has an index. Researchers will particularly appreciate the
                    editor's capstone, Volume XI, for it will contain a general index and a biographical
                    dictionary of all persons mentioned in the Papers.
            
            
                    San Jose State College
                
            Ted C. Hinckley
         
         
            
               Prohibition and the Progressive Movement, 1900-1920. By James H. Timberlake. (
                        Cambridge
                    : 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1963. Pp.238. Illustrations, notes, index. $5.25.)
            Historical myths sometimes die a slow death. One myth long held by Americans and many of their
                    historians is that prohibition was a singularly conservative measure, promoted primarily by
                    fanatical rural drys. In this little book, a happy combination of good scholarship and good writing,
                    James Timberlake has snuffed out this notion by finding, as it were, the proper home for
                    prohibition. He argues that prohibition was an integral part of progressivism; indeed, it was one of
                    the more important (and least understood) reforms of the Progressive movement. Essentially a
                    middle-class reform, deeply rooted in the American reform tradition, prohibition cut across
                    geographic and class lines. It was successfully stitched into the Constitution, not merely because
                    of the astute tactics of the Anti-Saloon League, but fundamentally because it was buttressed by the
                    moral, economic, social, and political idealism of progressivism itself.
            Thus, argues Timberlake, if progressivism was founded on a belief in the moral law, so was
                    prohibition, which sought to eliminate from commerce an article that was believed to destroy
                    man's reason, paralyze his moral nature, and undermine the very foundation of religion and
                    political democracy. If progressivism was an attempt to limit the power of an industrial and
                    financial plutocracy, prohibition aimed to mash the liquor industry—one of the most
                    corrupting branches of that plutocracy—with its intimate ties to commercialized vice and
                    political machines. If progressivism represented a crusade for humanitarianism, so did prohibition,
                    which held that liquor was a primary cause for poverty, crime, disease, misery, and broken homes.
                    And, finally, if progressivism sought to elevate and improve the status of the lower classes,
                    prohibition attempted to uplift them by banishing intemperance, believed to be of critical
                    importance in stunting the rise of the working-man and the "Americanization" of
                    the immigrant.
            Timberlake is not so unsophisticated as to believe that all progressives were cut out of the same
                    cloth. Prohibition appealed largely to  the old-stock middle
                    class; although it was supported by some labor groups, the urban-labor-immigrant progressives
                    disliked the reform and fought it. The old-stock middle class won the contest, however, because it
                    constituted the backbone of progressivism and held disproportionate political power. But the key
                    point is not that the prohibition movement was either rural or urban but that it was a middle-class
                    reform supported by middle-class Americans in both country and city. Moreover, it
                    won that support because it was firmly embedded in the aspirations of the Progressive movement.
            Thus came prohibition to the 
                        United States
                    . Middle-class Americans—striving to revitalize and preserve American
                    democracy and to usher in a new era of humanity, achievement, and progress—turned to
                    prohibition as one device to achieve their goals. Little did they realize in 1920 the ugly ironies
                    involved in a dry utopia.
            This book, then, is indispensable to students of recent American history. It is at once a brilliant
                    description of the mind and aims of the progressives and one of the best explanations of why this
                    country adopted prohibition.
            
                    Purdue University
                
            Alexander B. Callow, Jr
         
         
            
               Early American Homes for Today: A Treasury of Decorative Details and Restoration
                        Procedures. By Herbert Wheaton Congdon. (Rutland, Vt.: Charles E. Tuttle Company, 1963. Pp.
                    xi, 236. Illustrations, glossary, index. $12.50.)
            The growing interest throughout America in restoring old houses and the need for technical advice on
                    how to do it properly have resulted in a number of articles and books on the subject. Herbert
                    Congdon's new book, addressed to what he calls "the do-it-yourself man,"
                    is an informative and attractive addition.
            The volume contains a large number of good illustrations—all the houses pictured are
                    apparently in 
                        Vermont
                    —of exteriors as well as of interior details such as doors, windows,
                    stairways, and mantels.
            For most residents of Indiana the instructions will be of little help because very few of our old
                    houses date as early as those discussed by the author. We have no Colonial architecture in the
                    state, and examples of the Federal style (about 1800 to 1840) are very scarce. Had Congdon placed
                    more emphasis on the Greek Revival types of the 1840's and 1850's, and had he
                    pointed out their characteristic features in contrast to the Federal and the Georgian Colonial ones,
                    the book would serve a wider audience, particularly in the Midwest.
            In reading the book one cannot avoid making comparisons to Henry and Ottalie Williams' work,
                        Old American Houses, that appeared about six years ago and that tackles the
                    same problem. For one thing, the Williamses prove how useful diagrams of constructional elements can
                    be to the remodeler who is not an architect or a carpenter. Mr. Congdon's descriptions of
                    how parts of a building are put together would be clearer to the average reader if more diagrams and
                    detailed drawings accompanied the text.
            
            In the opinion of this reader, Early American Homes for Today is weakened by the
                    author's repeated references to the low level of Victorian taste that, in
                    Congdon's opinion, prevailed after the decline of the Classical Revival movement.
                    Excursions into the arena of aesthetic judgments of styles do little to help the man who is faced
                    with the extremely difficult task of restoring an old house. Everyone will agree that Victorian
                    porches and other late nineteenth-century overlays should be removed from houses of the late
                    eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries; but, by the same token, "Colonial"
                    doorways and pseudoclassical porticoes should not be allowed to spoil Italianate or French Mansard
                    dwellings as they so often do when fine old Victorian mansions are converted into modern homes and
                    funeral parlors.
            These observations aside, Congdon's book will make a first-rate addition to the library of
                    anyone interested in early American architecture, and it will prove to be a useful guide for the man
                    or woman who wants "to make the most of a neglected but worthy old building" (P.
                    3).
            
                    Herron Museum of Art, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
                
            Wilbur D. Peat
         
         
            Papers of James E. Watson Desired
            Peter J. Thayer, Box 251, Wright Quadrangle, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, is seeking information about the late Senator James E. Watson of Indiana.
                    Letters written by Watson are few in number and widely scattered. Anecdotes, speeches, letters,
                    newspaper clippings, diaries, or any other information dealing with the senator's public or
                    private life are desired. This material is being gathered for a graduate thesis and eventually for a
                    biography of Watson.
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Architectural Heritage of 
                            Evansville
                        : An Interpretive Review of the Nineteenth Century. By Howard E. Wooden.
                            (
                  Evansville, Ind.
               : 
                        Evansville
                     Museum of Arts and Science, 1962. Pp. vi, 78. Illustrations. Paperbound,
                    $2.00.) The many people who have received much pleasure and information from Wilbur D.
                    Peat's Indiana Houses of the Nineteenth Century (1962) should also
                    benefit from Howard E. Wooden's modest work about 
                        Evansville
                    's architectural heritage. Although the pictures in Wooden's volume
                    are generally small, the author gives many facts and illustrations concerning not only residential
                    but also public and business architecture. Moreover, attention is paid to the relationship between
                    architecture and the local economy and availability of construction materials. Wooden repeatedly
                    observes that while 
                        Evansville
                     builders attempted to imitate styles found elsewhere they often produced more
                    innovations than they realized. The 
                        Evansville
                     Museum of Arts and Science and Howard E. Wooden are to be commended for this volume.
            
               A History: Fifty Years of Cooperative Extension Service in Zndiuna. By Dave O.
                    Thompson, Sr. ([
                  Lafayette, Ind.
               : Purdue Extension Department, 1962.1 Pp. 159. Illustrations, tables.
                    Paperbound, $.50.) Here is a popular and useful history of the agricultural extension
                    service in Indiana. This work deals principally with the period since Leonard B. Clore became the
                    state's first county agent—in 
                        LaPorte County
                     in 1912 (pp. 23, 25); but it also describes something of Purdue University's
                    early development before that date. The numerous illustrations, supplied for the most part by J. C.
                    Allen & Son of West Lafayette, tell much about the achievements of Hoosier agriculture and
                    the important role of the university in this accomplishment. Such pictures as those of an early
                    telephone (p. 13), an outside pump for use in washing hands and face before meals (p. 15), a
                    farmers' picnic (p. 65), a spring-tooth harrow (p. 87), and a county agent
                    "fording" a stream in a Model T Ford (p. 125) show a lot about rural life in the
                    state during the early decades of this century. Although the need for a comprehensive and scholarly
                    history of Indiana agriculture remains, works like the present one provide worthwhile additions to
                    our knowledge.
            
               Farms and Farmers in an Urban Age. By Edward Higbee. (
                        New York
                    : The Twentieth Century Fund, 1963. Pp. xii, 183. Notes, appendixes, index. Clothbound,
                    $3.00; paperbound, $1.45.) Edward Higbee offers an informative and provocative
                    study of American agriculture in recent decades. He notes the enormous impact of science and
                    technology on agriculture and the revolutionary changes in farm life and the conduct of farming; and
                    he reviews the 
                        United States
                     government's attempts to solve the "farm problem." According
                    to him, the federal government has lavishly subsidized large-scale farmers who  do not need or deserve aid, largely failed to help marginal and
                    small-scale farmers who are for the most part in miserable circumstances, and refused through both
                    Democratic and Republican administrations to face facts and deal honestly with the problem. This
                    hard-hitting study makes explicit some of the major developments and issues in American agriculture
                    since 1930 but it is much less adequate in indicating possible solutions.
            
               
                  
                            Minnesota
                        : A History of the State. By Theodore C. Blegen. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1963. Pp. xiv, 688. Illustrations, maps, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $8.50.) A comprehensive, interesting, and worthwhile one-volume history of 
                        Minnesota
                    , this balanced account describes the state's geology and geography, the events
                    of its colonial and territorial eras, and its social and economic as well as its political and
                    constitutional history. Attention is also given to the interplay of 
                        Minnesota
                     history with that of the nation and the world. Although written primarily for the
                    general reader, this work contains much of substantial value for the scholar. In addition to
                    teachers of 
                        Minnesota
                     history, teachers of American history interested in questions pertaining to the state
                    can find a great deal of information as well as interpretations worthy of careful consideration. The
                    author, Theodore C. Blegen, a distinguished American historian, is dean emeritus of the Graduate
                    School of the University of 
                        Minnesota
                     and a former editor of 
                  
                            Minnesota
                         History. Blegen, the state historical society which sponsored the
                    book's preparation, and the University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press all deserve praise for this new history of the Gopher State.
            
               
                  
                            West Virginia
                         Civil War Literature: An Annotated Bibliography. By Charles Shetler. (
                        Morgantown
                    : 
                        West Virginia
                     University Library, 1963. Pp. xii, 184. Illustrations, index. Clothbound,
                    $7.00; paperbound, $5.00.) This annotated bibliography should be useful to
                    historians, genealogists, and librarians long after the recent and unfortunate re-enactments of
                    Civil War battles have passed into limbo. The approximately nine hundred entries indicate that the
                    region that is now 
                        West Virginia
                     played a role of great significance in the Civil War. Since Indiana soldiers were much
                    involved in the fighting in western 
                        Virginia
                    , especially in the first years of the war, a number of the items included are useful
                    for a study of Hoosiers in the Civil War. Due to the presence of detailed indexes, the value of this
                    volume is greatly increased. The Preface states that 
                  
                            West Virginia
                         Civil War Literature was made possible by the interest and support of
                    representatives of 
                        West Virginia
                     University.
            
               The Fur Trade in 
                            Canada
                        : An Introduction to Canadian Economic History. By Harold A. Innis. Reprint
                    based on the revised edition prepared by S. D. Clark and W. T. Easterbrook. (
                  New Haven, Conn.
               : Yale
                    University Press, 1962. Pp. xv, 446. Map, notes, tables, appendix, bibliography, index. Paperbound,
                    $1.95.) This book, originally published in 1930, has been widely recognized as an
                    important work. Though  concerned with the fur trade in 
                        Canada
                    , it offers much information essential to an understanding of the fur trade in the 
                        United States
                    , especially in the Old Northwest. This study, which contributed greatly to its
                    author's wide and solid reputation as an historian, merits inclusion in the series of Yale
                    University paperbacks on Western Americana. The foreword written by Robin W. Winks for this reprint
                    is a helpful addition.
            
               The Horn and the Forest. By Jamie Lee Cooper. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Bobbs-Merrill Company, Inc., 1963. Pp. 266. $4.00.) The setting of The Horn and the Forest, Jamie Lee Cooper's first novel, is the Old
                    Northwest during the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries. It is the story of two
                    generations of pioneers—a medical doctor from the East and his half-breed son, who can
                    fight neither against nor for the Indians. The difficulties of pioneering, the closeness of the
                    pioneers to nature, and their friendships and enmities with the Indians are portrayed.
            
               Public Papers of the Presidents of the 
                            United States
                        : John F. Kennedy … 1962. (Washington: U.S. Government Printing
                    Office, 1963. Pp. liv, 1019. Illustration, appendixes, index. $9.00.) This large volume
                    printed in small type contains the public messages and statements of President Kennedy during 1962.
                    Similar volumes have been published for the Eisenhower years and the early years of the Truman
                    administration and others are now being prepared for the remaining years of the Truman period. This
                    series is one of considerable interest to both historians and general readers. The total output of
                    presidential messages and papers has reached staggering proportions. The Preface to this volume
                    intriguingly states that into this book have been "gathered most of the public messages and
                    statements of the President of the 
                        United States
                     that were released by the White House during 1962." Excluded, and naturally
                    so, are presidential proclamations, ex-cutive orders, and related documents published in the Federal Register and in the Code of Federal Regulations as well
                    as presidential reports to Congress. Much private correspondence and manuscript material are also
                    omitted.
            
               Public Papers of the Presidents of the 
                            United States
                        : Hamy S. Truman … 1947. (Washington: U.S. Government Printing
                    Office, 1963. Pp. xxxi, 613. Illustration, appendixes, index. $5.25.) This volume
                    covering the Truman administration during the year 1947 is, in format and general content, quite
                    similar to the Kennedy volume noted above. The usefulness of such books is too obvious to require
                    further elaboration here. Incidentally, these two collections reflect the different personalities of
                    Presidents Truman and Kennedy and reveal that in spite of common elements each administration has
                    its own moods and problems.
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
