
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 8, Issue 2, pages 51-100. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:8+issue:2+year:1912&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            AN OLD INDIANA RAILROAD CHARTER.
            THE BUFFALO & MISSISSIPPI RAILROAD COMPANY.
            
               Wilber L. Stonex.
            [A paper prepared for the 
                        Elkhart County
                     Historical Society in 1911.] AT the present time there is a sharp conflict between
                    those who claim to own the railroads of the country and the people for whose benefit they exist. And
                    quite generally it is the fashion to insist that the controversy is one for which the present
                    generation is not to blame, but that the problem set for us to solve is before us as the necessary
                    consequence of the lack of foresight of those who were charged with the duty of protecting the
                    public interests when the building of these highways was first begun.
            One of the ablest of our public journals, and one which stands stoutly for the protection of the
                    interests of the whole people, recently said, editorially, of the railroads: "They were in
                    the beginning private enterprises. … They were therefore neither controlled by the
                    community nor open to all members of the community on equal terms."*
            
            This is the popular impression, but, like many other popular impressions, it has no historical basis.
                    The fact is that at the beginning the true relation of the railroads to the people was as clearly
                    understood as it is to-day; and in every early charter this relation was not only recognized, but
                    its continuation was generally carefully provided for. The present unfortunate relation existing
                    between the railroad companies and the people is the result of the persistent encroachment by the
                    former upon the rights of the people, and the final and comparatively recent repudiation by these
                    companies of a relation which they at first  willingly accepted.
                    The problem which we have to solve is not how we can create a new relation, but how we can restore
                    the old one.
            It is astonishing, when our forbears had written with most painstaking care into every charter
                    granted in this State to the early railroad companies the true theory of the relation they must bear
                    to the people, that now their wisdom should be denied and their efforts to safeguard the public
                    interests be forgotten; and it is due to them that these false impressions be corrected.
            Those of us who have made a study of the subject are familiar with the story of the magnificent
                    struggle which those who represented the people of Indiana made in the early years of the State to
                    provide for them the means of transportation, without which they knew there could be no permanent
                    prosperity; for it was as apparent to them as it is to us that cheap and efficient facilities for
                    transportation is the first essential to commercial activities, and that the relation between
                    commerce and civilization is so close that it may almost be said that a people's commerce
                    is the measure of their progress toward the highest civilization. And you may remember how our
                    earliest Governors, year after year, sought to impress upon the successive Legislatures the
                    importance of building roads, opening the rivers for navigation, digging canals, and at last, when
                    the railway locomotive was made a practical means of locomotion, of building railroads. The task was
                    an immense one, and the people soon realized that the State could not by the use of its own credit
                    alone accomplish all that was urgently needed. Private capital was invited to cooperate in the work
                    and liberal inducements were offered, but always, whether in providing turnpikes to be maintained by
                    private companies, canals by slack-water navigation companies, or railroads by railroad companies,
                    the waters and roads were alike declared to be public highways subject to the control of the State
                    authorities and for the use of all of the people on equal terms.
            In the case of the railroads the right of the public extended to the privilege of using their own
                    vehicles in much the same way as in their use of the turnpikes; and when it came to granting the  charters to the railroad companies, an amount of practical
                    economic wisdom and statesmanlike foresight was exhibited which we cannot but wonder at and applaud,
                    and from which legislators of to-day can learn much. Every public right was recognized and every
                    possible danger from private greed was guarded against so far as human foresight could guard against
                    it; and they failed to accomplish all that they aimed at only in that they could not guard against
                    the lethargy or venality of their successors, and the corrupting influences of corporate wealth and
                    power.
            I am sure we can spend a half-hour profitably in a study of one of these old charters, and I will
                    take for that purpose one of which a copy has very recently come into the possession of the 
                        Elkhart County
                     Historical Society. It is that of the Buffalo & 
                        Mississippi
                     Railroad Company. It is a typical one, although it does not contain some restrictions
                    which I find in some of the later charters. Locally the charter is of peculiar interest because the
                    railroad was to pass through 
                        Elkhart county
                     and was subsequently built as originally planned. The road is that now known as the
                    Lake Shore & 
                        Michigan
                     Southern. The local interest is enhanced by the fact that among the original
                    incorporators were the ancestors of families whose descendants are still among us; and for me there
                    is the special interest due to the fact that one of them was my maternal grandfather.
            The entire charter is too long to give here in full, as it contains much that is purely formal and
                    also sets out in detail the proceedings by which right of way might be acquired by condemnation
                    proceedings. It was approved February 6, 1835, and may be found in the Local Laws of 1835, pp.
                    16–24.
            The road which the company was to build was to connect the navigable water at the west end of Lake
                    Erie with the navigable water below the rapids of the 
                        Illinois
                     river. In the words of the charter, it was to commence "on the eastern line of
                    the State, in a direction to the head of Maumee bay as near on a line between the head of Maumee bay
                    and the rapids as circumstances will permit, and running on the best ground for the interests of the
                    company and the convenience of the people to the west line of 
                    the State in the most approved direction to strike the rapids of 
                        Illinois
                    , or highest steamboat navigation of said river in the 
                        Illinois
                     State: Provided, however, that if either of the State Legislatures of 
                        Ohio
                     or 
                        Illinois
                     do grant the privilege to said corporation to construct said railroad through that
                    portion of their States to either or both of the designated points, then and in that case, the said
                    corporation shall commence at a suitable place at the head of Maumee bay on Lake Erie, and running
                    on the best ground for the interest of the company and convenience of the public, through the State
                    of Indiana to the Rapids of 
                        Illinois
                     in the State of 
                        Illinois
                    ."
            The road was to be for the use of the public, and the people were to be entitled to travel upon it
                    either in vehicles provided by the company or by those using the road, but the company was given the
                    right to charge for its use and to designate the kinds of vehicles which could be used on it. This
                    was provided for in these words:
            "Section 23. That it shall be lawful for said corporation to place or prescribe the kind of
                    carriages that may be used on said railroad, whether propelled by steam or other power, for the
                    transportation of passengers, for all kinds of produce, lumber, goods, wares, merchandise, or any
                    other kind of property, and for this purpose the corporation may construct said railroad of wood,
                    stone, or iron, or of all, with such locks, turns, gates, bridges and aqueducts, culverts, toll and
                    warehouses, as may be considered necessary for the interest of the company and convenience of the
                    public; and the corporation may charge tolls and freights on such part of the road as may be in a
                    sufficient state of forwardness, although the whole be not finished; and they may charge for travel
                    and transportation on the same when it is graded and bridged, although the rails may not be laid SO
                    as to admit carriages thereon."
            Section 24 authorized the company to make such charges as it deemed advisable, but section 25 put a
                    perfect and automatic check on this rate-making power by providing that when the aggregate amount of
                    dividends paid to its stockholders had amounted to enough to reimburse them for their investment  with stipulated interest, the Legislature could interfere in
                    behalf of the people to reduce the rates. And then the representatives of the people, with rare
                    wisdom, protected the public against the possibility of a misuse of this power by either the
                    railroad corporation or by subsequent Legislatures by providing that after a fixed maximum dividend
                    had been paid to the stockholders out of the earnings of the road, the surplus should be paid to the
                    State for the benefit of the public schools. This provision absolutely removed all inducement for
                    the corporation to charge excessive rates, as the stockholders would not receive the benefit; and by
                    giving the excess for the support of the public schools, the largest possible number of the people
                    were interested in seeing that the contract was carried out by the corporation, as the effect of the
                    payment for the support of the schools would be to reduce taxes.
            These sections are of such peculiar interest that I will read them:
            "Section 24. The corporation may charge and receive such tolls and freights for the
                    transportation of persons, commodities, and carriages, on said road or any part thereof as shall be
                    for the interests of said company, and the same to change, lower or raise at pleasure: Provided,
                    That the rates established from time to time shall be posted in some conspicuous place or places on
                    said road.
            "Section 25. That when the aggregate amount of dividends declared shall amount to the full
                    sum invested and 10 per cent, per annum thereon, the Legislature may so regulate the tolls and
                    freights that no more than 15 per cent. shall be divided on the capital employed; and the surplus
                    profits, if any after paying the expenses and reserving such proportion as may be necessary for
                    future contingencies, shall be paid over to the Treasurer of State for the use of the common
                    schools; but the corporation shall not be compelled by law to reduce the tolls and freights so that
                    dividends of less than 20 per cent. cannot be made; and it shall be the duty of the corporation to
                    furnish the Legislature, if required, with a correct statement of the amount of profits after  deducting all expenses; which statement shall be made under oath
                    of the officers whose duty it shall be to make the same."
            As the corporation under this charter assumed the relation to the State of a trustee to receive and
                    account for school funds, it was important that it be required to keep, and, whenever called upon by
                    the Legislature to do so, exhibit to it itemized statements of all its receipts and expenditures.
                    This was fully provided for in another section. If our Legislature had gone no farther than this it
                    would have been entitled to our highest praises.
            After the acceptance of this charter by the corporation, no act of the company could relieve it from
                    the obligations assumed by that acceptance without the active concurrence of the legislators of the
                    State as the representatives of its people. Any attempt of the company to escape from these
                    obligations by a transfer of its charter would have been futile, for the law has always been clear
                    on that subject. As was said by the Supreme Court of the 
                        United States
                     in the case of Thomas vs. Railroad Company, 101 U. S. 71 (at page 83): "Where
                    a corporation, like a railroad company, has granted to it by charter a franchise intended in a large
                    measure to be exercised for the public good, the due performance of those functions being the
                    consideration of the public grant, any contract which disables the corporation from performing those
                    functions, which undertakes, without the consent of the State, to transfer to others the rights and
                    powers conferred by the charter, and to relieve the grantees of the burden which it imposes, is a
                    violation of the contract with the State, and is void as against public policy." And to
                    this opinion may be added the statement of a text writer of law of high authority, that
                    "Mere legislative consent to the transfer is not sufficient; there must be a release from
                    the obligation of the company to the public." (Joyce on Franchises, sec. 464. See also 29
                    Ind. 465.)
            But the Legislature did not stop with merely declaring the relation to exist between the company and
                    the State and imposing the obligations placed upon the company. It fixed a definite term during
                    which the company could exercise the privileges  conferred by the
                    charter. Section 38 of that instrument provided: "This charter is limited to seventy-five
                    years duration."
            The relation between the parties to the contract during the life of the charter was clear; but what
                    about the rights of the State and the company after the expiration of the charter? When the charter
                    was granted there could have been but one answer given to that question, for at that time no one
                    doubted, or questioned, the right, the propriety, or even the duty of the State to construct,
                    maintain and operate all of the public highways within the State. At that very time the State was
                    not only constructing and operating canals, but it was also constructing and operating railroads.
                    Its contract with the Buffalo & 
                        Mississippi
                     Railroad Company was merely an agreement that the company should build this particular
                    highway and advance the money for the purchase of the necessary rights of way, and reimburse its
                    stockholders out of tolls and rates which it was empowered to charge and collect. After the
                    stockholders had been fully reimbursed and given the liberal interest agreed upon in the contract,
                    the State was to be entitled to take possession of the road, which then became its property, to
                    operate for the benefit of the people of the State. It was supposed that this time would come long
                    before the period fixed by the charter, but whether this was done or not, all rights of the company,
                    that is of its stockholders, would then come to an end and the State would take possession of the
                    property, subject to no liability to the company, which must then dissolve. This was the law of
                    corporations of that day.
            I can best state the law, as it was then accepted, in the words of the Court of Appeals of 
                        New York
                    , as laid down in the case of Nicholl vs. 
                        New York
                     & Erie R. R. Company, 12 N. Y. 121. In that case the company had taken title to
                    a tract of land and the court was asked to declare the deed void because the title was taken as a
                    fee, whereas the company's existence was for a limited term only, and the contention was
                    that it was unable to acquire a title in perpetuity. But the court, while recognizing fully the
                    temporary character of the company, held that as the company might sell the land before its charter
                    expired, and as  the purchaser from it would be capable of
                    enjoying a title in fee by such conveyance, no objection to the possession of the land by the
                    company before its charter expired should be considered. In the course of its opinion the court
                    said: "
                        Kent
                     says: ‘Corporations have a fee-simple for the purpose of alienation, but
                    they have only a determinable fee for the purpose of enjoyment. On the dissolution of the
                    corporation the reverter is to the original grantor or his heirs, but the grantor will be excluded
                    by the alienation in fee, and in that way the corporation may defeat the possibility of a
                    reverter.’ " In illustrating the application of this proposition to a private
                    corporation the court said: "Suppose A. to sell to a banking corporation in fee by express
                    words, a lot of land on which to build a banking house. If the bank does not sell that land, but
                    retains it till the expiration of its charter, it will return to him, or, if he be dead, to his
                    heirs."
            But in the case of the Buffalo & 
                        Mississippi
                     Railroad Company there would, of course, be no such reverter, because the land was
                    acquired for the State, the company acting only as its agent and exercising for the State the power
                    of eminent domain which the State delegated to it for that purpose. This land was to be paid for by
                    the company by the advance of funds which the State was ultimately to repay, and after the
                    expiration of the charter and the franchise granted by it the State would take possession of the
                    property. All this was in the law and the charter.
            While the right of the State to take possession at the expiration of the company's franchise
                    in 1910 was absolute, the State was not obliged to wait until that time. The charter provided that
                    at the end of thirty-five years the State might call upon the company for an accounting, and if on
                    such accounting it was found that the company had been fully reimbursed for the money advanced by
                    it, and had received the dividends allowed by the charter, the State could then take possession of
                    the property; or if there was still due something to the stockholders on such an accounting, the
                    State could pay the deficiency and take over the property,—it by such payment becoming
                    the owner of all of the stock. All this is carefully provided for in the charter. Section 39 is as
                    follows:
            
            "Section 39. The corporation shall cause to be kept a fair account of the whole expense of
                    making and repairing said railroad and every section thereof, with all incidental expenses; and also
                    a fair and accurate account of tolls received; and the State shall have the right to purchase the
                    stock of said company at any time after thirty-five years by paying said corporation a sum of money
                    which, together with tolls received, shall equal the costs and expenses of said railroad as
                    aforesaid, with an interest of eighteen per cent. per annum; and the books of said corporation shall
                    be always open for inspection by any agent of the State appointed for that purpose by the
                    Legislature, and if said corporation shall neglect or refuse to exhibit at any time their books and
                    accounts agreeably to this section, when thereunto required, then all rights and privileges granted
                    by this act shall cease and be ended."
            It is apparent that the State allowed the stockholders a dividend amounting to 15 per cent. on the
                    money invested, and by allowing an additional 3 per cent. per annum this in thirty-five years would
                    amount to a return of 100 per cent. on the principal sum and thus extinguish the entire obligation.
                    And to this the company agreed.
            It is certain that it was understood in 1835 that there should be an accounting under this charter in
                    1870, but I am unable to find that the State called for one. Assuming that none was had, it is
                    apparent that if the charter continued until 1910 the right of the State was to take over the
                    property and call for an accounting in the interest of the public schools, and demand the payment of
                    the sums provided for in the charter, which by that time would have been a princely amount.
            So much for the charter and the benevolent intentions of our grandfathers in granting and accepting
                    it.
            Now let us see what happened, and why the expectations of those worthy men were not realized. In the
                    first place, although I have not been able to see them, it may be assumed that the Legislatures of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     authorized the construction of the railroad in their respective States by appropriate
                    acts.
            In 1837 the Indiana Legislature amended the original act by 
                    enacting: "That the Buffalo & 
                        Mississippi
                     Railroad Company be hereafter known and designated by the name and style of the
                    Northern Indiana Railroad Company, under which name and style the said corporation shall hereafter
                    transact all business under and by virtue of the act incorporating the same."
            Again in 1838 the act was amended. Under the original charter the company was required to provide
                    funds for building the road by the sale of stock, except that it was authorized to borrow
                    $200,000 on the general credit of the corporation, but it was prohibited from paying more
                    than 6 per cent. interest on this borrowed money. By the act of 1838 it was enacted that
                    "the power of said company to contract for a loan or loans is hereby extended to any sum
                    not exceeding one million of dollars, and for the payment of such interest on the same as the
                    parties contracting may agree upon, not exceeding eight per cent. per annum for one hundred
                    dollars." This loan was not to be otherwise secured than by the general credit of the
                    company.
            In 1839 the company asked permission to secure the loan authorized by the act of 1838 by a mortgage
                    on the property of the corporation. This permission was granted, and the company was authorized in
                    such mortgage to give the mortgagees the right, in case of default in payment, to take possession of
                    the road and operate it "during the whole residue of the term for which said company is
                    chartered or incorporated in as full and complete a manner as the stockholders of said company could
                    or might have had, used or enjoyed the same, subject, nevertheless, to all the restrictions,
                    limitations and conditions claimed in the act incorporating said company," etc.
            In 1845, by an act entitled "An act to amend an act entitled ‘An act to
                    incorporate the Buffalo & 
                        Mississippi
                     Railroad Company,’ approved February 6, 1835, and all acts amendatory
                    thereto," the State granted an extension of five years time for the completion of one-half
                    of the road, and of ten years for the other half, and authorized the company to make a traffic and
                    operating agreement with any other company having the right to construct a railroad from Buffalo to
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                     river, "on  such terms and conditions, with
                    division of profits and receipts as such companies may stipulate."
            In 1846 the original act was again amended, to allow the company to cause its line west of Laporte to
                    diverge from the original route "in a direction toward 
                        Chicago
                     in said State of 
                        Illinois
                    ." This act also authorized the company to consolidate with any other company
                    or companies so as to form a continuous line from the Maumee bay, in 
                        Ohio
                    , to 
                        Chicago
                    , in 
                        Illinois
                    , and provided that "said company, when so consolidated, shall possess and
                    enjoy all powers, rights, privileges, immunities and franchises granted to or vested in said Buffalo
                    & 
                        Mississippi
                     Railroad Company by said original act of incorporation, and all amendments
                    thereto."
            The construction of the road was now being actively carried on; in the fall of 1851 it was brought
                    into 
                        Elkhart
                    , and the next year it was extended to 
                        Goshen
                    .
            In anticipation of the extension of the road east from 
                        Goshen
                     to 
                        Toledo
                    , a consolidation of the Indiana company with an 
                        Ohio
                     company which had been organized to build west from 
                        Toledo
                     was next effected. In the agreement of consolidation the contracting parties were
                    described as "the Northern Indiana Railroad Company (formerly the Buffalo & 
                        Mississippi
                     Railroad Company) and the Northern Indiana Railroad Company in the State of 
                        Ohio
                    ." By the terms of this agreement a new company was formed "under the
                    name of the Northern Indiana Railroad Company, which," as the agreement recites,
                    "shall possess and enjoy all powers, rights, privileges, immunities and franchises granted
                    to or vested in the said Buffalo & 
                        Mississippi
                     Railroad Company by its original act of incorporation, and all amendments
                    thereto," etc. This consolidation seems to have been made June 13, 1853.
            In 1854 another agreement of consolidation was entered into, by which the Northern Indiana Railroad,
                    created by the consolidation of 1853, consolidated with another company of the same name organized
                    under an act approved February 11, 1843, entitled "An act providing for the construction of
                    a railway in 
                        Laporte county
                    ," and an act amendatory thereof, approved Jamary  15, 1849. This agreement, also, declared that the "said
                    companies and bodies corporate shall be consolidated into and form one corporation, under the name
                    of The Northern Indiana Railroad Company, which shall possess and enjoy all rights, powers,
                    privileges, immunities and franchises granted to or vested in the said Northern Indiana Railroad
                    Company (formerly called by and known by the name of the Buffalo & 
                        Mississippi
                     Railroad Company) by its original act of incorporation and all amendments thereto by
                    any statute, law, contract, deed or conveyance whatsoever."
            April 25, 1855, this Northern Indiana Railroad Company consolidated with the 
                        Michigan
                     Southern Railroad Company, a company chartered by the State of 
                        Michigan
                     in 1846, adopting for the new company the name 
                        Michigan
                     Southern & Northern Indiana Railroad Company. Its railroads formed a
                    "continuous line of railroads extending from the city of 
                        Chicago
                     to the head of Lake Erie at 
                        Monroe
                    , and also making connections through 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                        Toledo
                     in the State of 
                        Ohio
                    ."
            April 6, 1869, another consolidation was effected by which the 
                        Michigan
                     Southern & Northern Indiana company was consolidated with the Lake Shore
                    Railway Company, a company owning a railroad extending from the city of Erie, in the State of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , to the city of 
                        Toledo
                    , in the State of 
                        Ohio
                    . The company formed by this consolidation was named the Lake Shore & 
                        Michigan
                     Southern Railway Company; and this company is still in existence, operating as an
                    essential part of its principal road the railroad from 
                        Chicago
                     to 
                        Toledo
                     which the Buffalo & 
                        Mississippi
                     company was authorized to build and operate, and which was built under its charter.
            A statement of the various consolidations of the companies interested in this work in the State of 
                        Ohio
                     will be found in the case of Shields vs. 
                        Ohio
                    , 95 U. S. 319; and a statement of the various consolidations in 
                        Michigan
                     which culminated with the formation of the present organization will be found in the
                    case of Smith vs. Lake Shore Company, 114 Mich. 460.
            So far as I have been able to discover, the right of the Lake Shore & 
                        Michigan
                     Southern Railway Company to operate the  railroad in
                    the State of Indiana is conferred by the original charter authorizing its construction across the
                    State; and I am unable to see how its rights, as against the people of the State, are any greater
                    than were the rights then granted to the stockholders of the Buffalo & 
                        Mississippi
                     Railroad Company, or than would have been possessed by that company if there had been
                    no change in its organization. Such property rights as the Lake Shore company possesses came to it
                    as the successor of the Buffalo & 
                        Mississippi
                     company. This is the claim of the company itself.
            In the case of Shedd vs. Webb, and L. S. & M. S. Ry. Co., 157 Ind. 585. the contention of the
                    railway company was that it was the owner of the land in controversy as the successor of the Buffalo
                    & 
                        Mississippi
                     company; and the trial court so held, and made a special finding of that fact. The case
                    was taken to the Supreme Court on appeal. In their brief in that case the attorneys of the Lake
                    Shore company said:
            "The first finding is as to the charter of the Buffalo & 
                        Mississippi
                     Railroad Company to construct a line of railroad across 
                        Lake county
                     and elsewhere, the change of its name to Northern Indiana Railway Company, and that
                    afterwards consolidations were authorized and made in 1833, resulting in the Northern Indiana
                    & 
                        Michigan
                     Southern Railway Company; that about 1875, the defendant Lake Shore & 
                        Michigan
                     Southern Railway Company succeeded to the rights of the above company," etc.
            The title of the company to the land was sustained on that theory. Again, in the very recent case of
                    the L. S. & M. S. Ry. Co. vs. City of Whiting, the attorneys of the company in their brief
                    filed in the case in the Supreme Court say:
            "It appears from its charter and the several agreements which are in evidence that the
                    Buffalo & 
                        Mississippi
                     Railroad Company was granted the right to acquire right of way, lands, stone, gravel
                    and other material, as might be necessary for the construction and location of the road, or which
                    might be of benefit to the corporation, and that this right of way and the rights and privileges so
                    conferred are protected from interference or molestation  by
                    section 20 of said charter, which reads as follows: (This section is omitted.)
            "It further appears that appellant, through successive agreements of consolidation, acquired
                    and at the commencement of this action possessed the property, rights, franchises and privileges of
                    the said Buffalo & 
                        Mississippi
                     Railroad Company, and thereby became entitled to the same protection and exemptions in
                    the use, occupancy and ownership of its right of way and lands, rights and privileges."
            If the State was entitled to an accounting with the company in 1870, the agreement of consolidation
                    made in 1869 affords a basis for determining the financial condition of the company with which the
                    accounting would have been made.
            At that date the bonded indebtedness of the 
                        Michigan
                     Southern & Northern Indiana Company was only $8.876,580. On a
                    mileage basis not more than $6,000,000 of this would have been a charge against the road
                    of the Northern Indiana Company, and not more thzn $4,000,000 of this against that part
                    of the road which is in the State of Indiana. The capital stock of the 
                        Michigan
                     Southern & Northern Indiana Company, at par value at that time, was only
                    $12,125,600, of which, on the mileage basis of the part in Indiana, not more than
                    $6,000,000 could have been charged against it. There cannot be much doubt but that if a
                    computation had been made at that time on the basis agreed upon in the charter, there would have
                    been found to be enough then due to the State of Indiana to have entitled it to the entire capital
                    stock.
            At the time of the consolidation, in 1869, which brought the Lake Shore & 
                        Michigan
                     Southern Company into existence, and gave it all of the property of the constituent
                    lines, the property of the companies was represented by a total of issues of capital stock
                    aggregating $27,125,600; the bond issues aggregated $15,-476,580. This gave a
                    total capitalization of $42,602,180.
            Some estimate of the profits accruing from the operation of this property since that time may be
                    formed from the fact that in 1908, that is, for the forty years after the consolidation, the company
                    was paying dividends on $50,000,000 stock, and interest  on bonds aggregating $150,400,000. This represents a total par capitalization of
                    $200,400,000.
            But, as the dividends on this stock have steadily mounted until in 1910 they were 18 per cent. on the
                    stock, it is apparent that the actual value of the stock on a 6 per cent. basis is worth three times
                    its face value, so that the total actual valuation of the property is at least
                    $300,000,000. The capital stock, on the basis of the charter agreement, would
                    unquestionably have long before now have become the property of the State, and its earnings paying
                    the cost of maintaining the public schools of the State. As to the bonds, if they are a charge
                    against the property of the railroad prior to any claims of stockholders, it may be suggested that
                    in 1908 the company had in addition to its railroad properties the sum of $128,982,450
                    invested in the stocks and bonds of other railroads. The sum so invested was enough to pay off all
                    but a small part of the bonds of the company and may be assumed to have been invested to create a
                    sinking fund for that very purpose.
            I refer to these facts and figures, not because they are a part of the early history of the 
                        Buffalo
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     Railroad Company, but to emphasize the difference between the condition of affairs at
                    the end of the seventy-five year period and what my grandfather and his associates and the
                    Legislature of 1835 anticipated.
         
         
            THE PIONEER FOURTH OF JULY.
            
               GEORGE S. COTTMAN.
            THE present-day movement for a "safe and sane Fourth of July," and the proposal in 
                        Indianapolis
                     to revive certain observances that antedated the deadly cannon cracker, makes pertinent
                    a little information regarding the old-time national holiday. The drudging, narrow life of the
                    Indiana pioneer was not lightened by the various legal holidays we now observe. The first Christmas
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was signalized by a "stag party," promoted by the gentlemen who had
                    political aspirations, the festivity  of which occasion was
                    enhanced by a barrel of hard cider; and the first New Year was celebrated by the first ball, which
                    was held at 
                        John Wyant
                    's cabin by the river bank. But these were both exceptional instances.
                    Christmas. as a rule, was so little thought of that the Legislature did not adjourn on that day. and
                    the newspapers did not esteem it worth mentioning. A solitary advertisement in 1838 of fancy books
                    for Christmas presents in one of our home papers, stands alone as a reminder of the day.
                    Thanksgiving was practically unthought of. The first formal proclamation for its observance was not
                    issued until 1839, by Governor Wallace, and there is no evidence that it became a general holiday
                    until long after that.
            The first generally observed holidays were those that breathed the spirit of national patriotism. As
                    early as 1829 a semi-literary society of young men. known for years as the "
                        Indianapolis
                     Legislature," inaugurated the custom here of celebrating 
                        Washington
                    's birthday, and the evening of each anniversary was devoted to orations,
                    recitations, music and kindred features. to which the public was invited. But the day of days was
                    the Fourth of July. An inheritance dating from the beginning of the nation, it was peculiarly dear
                    to the heart of every American, and the holiday enthusiasm that now expends itself a half-dozen
                    times in the course of the year was then all concentrated on that occasion. The spirit of
                    '76—the patriotism that was keenly alive to its recent emancipation from kings
                    and rulers and to its anomalous position in the world, occupied a much larger space in -American
                    thought then that it does to-day, and the ever-memorable Fourth was the time for it to seethe and
                    boil over. In the wilds of the West, where the mode of life and meagerness of facilities were
                    against demonstration, this spirit was not to be suppressed, and the difficulties it sometimes
                    surmounted are interesting and inspiring to learn of.
            The late Dr. J. W. Hervey, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , told the writer of a celebration held in 
                        Hancock county
                     seventy years ago, which was, so to speak, made up out of the raw material. They had no
                    orator to call upon, no proper reader, and, above all, no flag. Old Mrs. Eastes, Mr.
                    Hervey's aunt, however, agreed to supply  the last-named
                    requisite, which she did by taking a white linen sheet and some red and blue flannel, all of her own
                    weaving, and sewing them together in the proper combination. The young doctor, being appointed
                    orator, expended his best energies on a maiden effort, while his brother not only read the
                    Declaration, but played the fife, which, along with a drum or two, had been borrowed at 
                        Indianapolis
                     for the occasion.
            At the capital the Fourth has been a great gala day since 1822, when it was first celebrated here. On
                    that initial occasion, as sundry chronicles have recorded, the people of the little town and
                    surrounding country came together and set the pace for succeeding anniversaries. The meeting was
                    about where 
                        Washington
                     and West streets intersect. The meat for the indispensable barbecue was carved from a
                    fine buck deer, killed the day before by Robert Harding in what is now the north part of town, and
                    which was roasted whole in the middle of 
                        Washington
                     street, just west of 
                        Missouri
                    . The public banquet was spread on long tables set under the trees, and there was an
                    abundance for all. The merriment of the festivities was enhanced by the performances of a talented
                    teamster from 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               , who did the clown act, dressed up in grotesque garb, and by a
                    grand, general dance in a house then being built near the scene of the barbecue, which dance, we are
                    told, continued until some time on the 5th. This was the first combined public dinner and ball in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The following year, in The Western Censor and Emigrants' Guide, appeared the first published
                    advertisement of a celebration. This reads:
            "Barbecue.—A barbecue will be furnished for the ladies and gentlemen of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and its vicinity, at the upper end of Market street, convenient to good water, on the
                    Fourth of July ensuing, being the anniversary of American independence. Those ladies and gentlemen
                    who are disposed to take dinner shall be accommodated."
            This is signed by Wilks Reagon, the first butcher in town, and the barbecue part of the celebration
                    was evidently on a pay basis. It was held "in a handsome shade" on
                    Pogue's run, north of IVashington street. As this was for some years after the scene  of these annual celebrations, the inference is that a pleasant
                    grove covered the spot.
            This day was ushered in by the firing of muskets and rifles, and about 10 o'clock the
                    citizens gathered at the appointed place to hear an oration by Morris Morris (the father of General
                    T. A. Morris) and sundry other exercises of a religious and patriotic character. At 1
                    o'clock "a large and respectable company" sat down to Mr.
                    Reagon's barbecue, and a good part of the summer's afternoon was spent in the
                    feast of reason and flow of soul that went with numerous toasts.
            The programs of these Fourth of July occasions varied slightly, but certain features were rigidly
                    established. The Declaration of Independence must be read; there must be an oration of the peculiar
                    patriotic stamp which belongs to that day and is sui generis; and there must be a profusim of toasts
                    reflecting the same spirit. To what extent this sort of recreation was sometimes carried we may
                    guess when we find that the oration of Bethuel Morris in 1828 filled eIeven nexx-spaper columns, and
                    that the toasts of 1827 numbered not less than forty.
            A few of the toasts quoted from the banquet ci 1823 will give an idea of their character:
            "The Day IVe Celebrate—It Will Never Be Forgotten So Long as the Genius of
                    Liberty Has a Tabernacle in Which She Can Dwell," "The Soldiers, Patriots and
                    Statesmen of the Revolution," "The Congress of the 
                        United States
                    ," "The Next Legislature," "The State of
                    Indiana," "
                        Indianapolis
                    —In Its Growth Almost Unparalleled; May Its Health and Prosperity Be
                    Continued." Usually, at the tail-end of this patriotism, there was a gallant toast or two
                    to "The Fair."
            The demonstrations on the great national holiday became more imposing as the town grew. In 1826 was
                    begun the custom of going to the scene of the exercises in a public procession, in which the militia
                    cut a figure. About this time, too, or a little later, the organized Sunday schools of the tom-n
                    began to take possession of the day. In 1829 a piece of ordnance known as Captain Blake's
                    cannon, which did noisy duty on every permissible occasion, and which, the following Fourth, blew
                    off the arm  of Andrew Smith, while adding eclat to a song on
                    "The Liberty Tree," sung by General Robert Hanna, opened the day with a
                    "salute of twenty-four guns." The order of procession, as it formed betimes, was:
                    (1) The artillery company with its one beloved gun; (2) ladies and female teachers; (3) four female
                    teachers and banner; (4) female scholars; (5) music; (6) four male teachers and banner; (7) male
                    scholars; (8) clergymen, reader and orator; (9) superintendents and teachers; (10) citizens; all
                    under the direction of James Blake. There were something over 1,200 in line by actual count, about
                    half of these being children. They formed at the Circle and marched up 
                        East Washington
                     street to the grove on Pogue's run, where, after the address, the Sunday
                    schools began much singing of hymns and were regaled with cakes distributed free. Then they marched
                    back and the day wound up with a grand hot-air balloon ascension.
            The Sunday schools become more and more a part of the Fourth of July celebrations, till they were the
                    chief feature, and hymns appropriate to the occasion grew to be a conspicuous part of the programs.
                    A fair sample is: 
                        "We meet beneath the shady grove To celebrate Thy praise, And for Thy gifts, O Lord
                            of Love, Our cheerful songs we raise."
                    
                
            The growing popularity of this idea continued until 1855, as is eyidenced by the fact that there were
                    more than two thousand Sunday school children in line in the celebration of that year; but two or
                    three years later, for some reason, they dropped out, and after that we hear no more of them. During
                    these later years it was also customary for the volunteer firemen to parade, dressed in uniforms of
                    black trousers, red shirt and stove-pipe hat, with the "masheens" and
                    appurtenances in apple-pie order. In the afternoon the various engine companies would have a contest
                    to determine which could get "first water" and throw the biggest and largest
                    stream, a strenuous competition which sometimes ended in a fight.
            G. S. C.
         
         
         
            INDIANA GEOGRAPHICAL NOMENCLATURE.
            SOME years ago Henry Gannett, geographer of the 
                        United States
                     Geological Survey, prepared a list of places in the 
                        United States
                    , giving the origin of their names, and from this work an anonymous newspaper
                    correspondent compiled the following list of Indiana places, which we copy verbatim:
            Adams: County, named after President John Quincy Adams.
            Alfordsville: Named for James Alford, who built the first house.
            Allen: County, named for Colonel William Allen, of 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            Amo: 
                        Hendricks county
                    , Indian word meaning bee.
            Anderson: 
                        Madison county
                    , English name of a 
                        Delaware
                     chief.
            Anoka: 
                        Cass county
                    , Indian word meaning "on both sides."
            Argos: 
                        Marshall county
                    , named from the town in 
                        Greece
                    .
            Arnolds: Creek in 
                        Ohio
                     county, named from Colonel Arnold, of the revolutionary war.
            Azalea: 
                        Bartholomew county
                    , named for the flower.
            Eanner: 
                        Wells county
                    , named for a newspaper, the Bluffton Banner.
            
               
                        Bartholomew
                    : County, named for General Joseph Bartholomew, 
                        United States
                     Senator.
            Battleground: 
                        Tippecanoe county
                    , named in commemoration of the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    .
            Roonville: 
                        Warrick county
                    , disputed; claimed in honor of Daniel Boone, others say named for Ratliffe Boone,
                    second Governor of the State, who laid it out.
            Buck creek: 
                        Greene county
                    , so named because a buck appeared each returning season on the banks of a nearby creek.
            Calumet: River, Canadian corruption of the French, chalemel, literally meaning "little
                    reed," but which in its corrupted form refers to the pipe of peace used by the Indians to
                    ratify treaties; some authorities derive the word from calamo, honey-wood.
            Cass: County, named for General Lewis Cass, Governor of 
                        Michigan
                     in 1820.
            
            Clark: County, named for General George Rogers Clark, who captured 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            Clarksville: 
                        Hamilton county
                    , same.
            Clinton: County, named for DeWitt Clinton, Governor of 
                        New York
                     and projector of the Erie canal.
            Crawford: County, named for Colonel William Crawford, who was captured by Indians and burned at the
                    stake at 
                        Sandusky
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1782.
            
               
                        Crawfordsville
                    : Named for William H. Crawford, Secretary of the Treasury under President Monroe.
            
               
                        Daviess
                    : County, named for Colonel Joseph Daviess, who fell at the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    .
            
               
                        Dearborn
                    : County, and town in 
                        Wayne county
                    , named for General Henry Dearborn, Secretary of War under President Thomas Jefferson.
            
               
                        Decatur
                    : County, named for Commodore Stephen Decatur.
            Dekalb: County, named for Baron Dekalb, who fell at the battle of Camden.
            
               
                        Delaware
                    : County, so given because this tribe had villages within the boundaries of the county.
            Delphi: Named for the ancient town in 
                        Phocis
                    .
            Dismaugh: Lake in 
                        Laporte county
                    , from an Indian word meaning "Lake of the Monks."
            Dubois: County, named for Toussaint Dubois, who had charge of the guides and spies in the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign.
            Eel river: Called by the Indians Shoamaque, "slippery fish." The Indiana State
                    Historical Geology, 1882, gives the Indian name as Ke-wa-be-gwinn-maig, meaning
                    "snake-fish-river."
            
               
                        Evansville
                    : Named for General Robert Evans, who laid it out.
            
               
                        Fayette
                    : County, named for the Marquis de La Fayette.
            
               
                        Fort Wayne
                    : Named from a fort built by Lieutenant-Colonel Hamtramck, in 1794; named for General
                    Anthony Wayne.
            
               
                        Fountain
                    : County, named for Major Fountain, of 
                        Kentucky
                    , killed at the battle of Maumee, in 1790.
            
               
                        Fulton
                    : County, named for Robert Fulton.
            Garrett: 
                        Dekalb county
                    , named for John W. Garrett, president of the 
                        Baltimore
                     & 
                        Ohio
                     railroad.
            
            Gibson: County, named for John Gibson, secretary and acting Governor of Indiana Territory in
                    1811–13.
            
               
                        Goshen
                    : Named from the land of 
                        Goshen
                    . The name is found in many parts of the country, applied as a synonym for fruitfulness
                    and fertility.
            
               
                        Greene
                    : County, named for General Nathaniel Greene, a Revolutionary soldier.
            
               
                        Hamilton
                    : County, named for Alexander Hamilton.
            
               
                        Hammond
                    : Named for Abram Hammond, twelfth Governor, 1860–61.
            
               
                        Hancock
                    : County, named for John Hancock, signer of Declaration of Independence.
            Hendricks: County, named for William Hendricks, one of the early Governors.
            Henry: County, named for Patrick Henry.
            Hope: 
                        Bartholomew county
                    , so named by its Moravian settlers as a monument to the sentiment which caused them to
                    emigrate there.
            
               
                        Huntington
                    : County, named for Samuel Huntington, of 
                        Connecticut
                    , one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence.
            Indiana: State, so named because a company of traders bought this tract of land lying along the 
                        Ohio
                     from the Indians.
            Iroquois: River, an Indian word meaning "heart people," or "people of
                    God," or from the Indian "hiro," "I have said," and
                    "koue," a vocable which expressed joy or sorrow, according to the rapidity with
                    which it was pronounced; also the name of a tribe.
            Jackson: County, named for General Andrew Jackson.
            
               
                        Jasper
                    : County, named for Sergeant Jasper, of Fort Moultrie. (S. C.) fame, who was killed in
                    the siege of Savannah.
            Jay: County, named for the Honorable John Jay, early Governor of 
                        New York
                    .
            Jennings: County, named for Jonathan Jennings, first Governor of the State.
            Johnson: County, named for John Johnson, judge of the Supreme Court of the State.
            
            
               
                        Knox
                    : County, named for General Henry Knox, Secretary of War during the administration of 
                        Washington
                    .
            
               
                        Kokomo
                    : Indian word meaning "young grandmother."
            
               
                        Kosciusko
                    : Named for the Polish patriot, Tadeusz Kosciusko.
            
               
                        Lagrange
                    : County, named for the home of La Fayette, near 
                        Paris
                    .
            Laporte: County, a French word meaning door or opening between two stretches of forest connecting two
                    prairies.
            Laughery: River, so named for the massacre of Captain Laughery's company by the Indians.
            
               
                        Lawrenceburg
                    : Named for the wife of Captain Vance, whose maiden name was Lawrence.
            Leopold: Town, named for Leopold, King of the Belgians.
            
               
                        Ligonier
                    : Named for Sir John Ligonier, lord viscount of Enniskillen.
            
               
                        Logansport
                    : Named for Captain Logan, Indian chief, nephew of Tecumseh.
            
               
                        Madison
                    : County, named for President James Madison.
            
               
                        Marion
                    : County, named for General Francis Marion.
            Marshall: County, named for Chief Justice John Marshall.
            Martin: County, named for Colonel John P. Martin.
            Martinsville: Named for the oldest of the locating commissioners, John Martin.
            Merom: Named for the waters of Merom, in 
                        Palestine
                    .
            Metea: 
                        Cass county
                    , named for Pottawattomi chief, or possibly from meda, or meta, which means a prophet or
                    priest.
            Miami: County, the French orthography for the Indian word Maumee, meaning mother; or, according to
                    another authority, pigeon.
            
               
                        Mishawaka
                    : Probably named for the Indian chief Mishiniwaka.
            Mississinewa: River, Indian word for "river of great stones."
            Modoc: An Indian word, meaning "the head of the river."
            
               
                        Montgomery
                    : County, named for General Richard Montgomery, who was killed in the assault on Quebec.
            
               
                        Monticello
                    : Named for the home of Thomas Jefferson, in 
                        Virginia
                    .
            
            
               
                        Muncie
                    : Named from the Indian tribe, the word meaning "death," given to them
                    on account of an epidemic of smallpox, which nearly exterminated the tribe.
            Muscatatuck: River, meaning "pond river," and so named because of the many stagnant
                    ponds upon its banks.
            
               
                        New Harmony
                    : 
                        Posey county
                    , settled by the Harmonists, and named for their sect.
            Newton: County, named for Sergeant John Newton, a Revolutionary officer.
            Noble: County, named for Noah Noble, an early Governor.
            
               
                        Ohio
                    : Rher, Indian word, meaning "the beautiful river."
            
               
                        Orange
                    : County, named for the county in 
                        North Carolina
                    , home of its settlers.
            Owen: County, named for Colonel Abraham Owen, of 
                        Kentucky
                    , killed at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    .
            Perry: County, named for Commodore Oliver Hazard Perry.
            Posey: County, named for General Thomas Posey, an early Governor of the State.
            
               
                        Pulaski
                    : County, named for the Polish patriot, Count Casimir Pulaski.
            
               
                        Randolph
                    : County, named for Thomas Randolph, killed at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    .
            Redwood: River, derived from the Indian word "musqua," "me,"
                    "tig," meaning redwood, tree, river.
            
               
                        Ripley
                    : County, named for General Eleazar W. Ripley.
            Rising Sun: Named by its founder, John James, when viewing the sunrise from that location.
            
               
                        Roanoke
                    : An Indian word, designating a species of shell, which they used for money.
            Rushville: Named for Dr. Benjamin Rush, of 
                        Philadelphia
                    .
            
               
                        St. Joseph
                    : River, named for the husband of the Virgin Mary, by its early Catholic explorers.
            Scott: County, named for Governor Charles Scott, of Ken tucky.
            
               
                        Shelby
                    : Named for General Isaac Shelby, former Governor of 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            
            
               
                        Spencer
                    : County, named for Captain Spier Spencer, killed at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    .
            
               
                        Steuben
                    : County, named for Baron von 
                        Steuben
                    , the Prussian soldier, who fought in the Revolution.
            Sullivan: County, named for Daniel Sullivan, killed by the Indians when bearing messages from Captain
                    Clark, after the capture of 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            Tell City: Named by its Swiss colonists for William Tell.
            
               
                        Terre Haute
                    : French word meaning high land.
            
               
                        Tippecanoe
                    : River and county, an Indian word given the various meanings of "At the great
                    clearing," "The long-lipped pike," and "buffalo fish."
            Vanderburg: Named for Henry Vanderburg, judge of the first court formed in the State.
            Vermilion: County, named from the river in 
                        South Dakota
                    ; said to have been so named because of the red earth produced by the burning of the
                    shale overlying the outcrop of coal, by ignition from autumnal fires.
            
               
                        Vera Cruz
                    : Named for the old town in 
                        Mexico
                    .
            Vigo: County, named for Colonel Francis Vigo.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                    : Named from the fort built by the Sieur de 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            
               
                        Wabash
                    : County, river and town, from the Indian word "Ouabache," meaning
                    cloud borne by an equinoctial wind; or according to another authority, "white
                    water."
            
               
                        Wakarusa
                    : Town, named from a stream, the Indian word meaning "thigh deep."
            Wanatah: Named for an Indian chief, whose name signified "He that charges on his
                    enemies."
            
               
                        Warren
                    : County, named for General rancis 
                        Warren
                    .
            
               
                        Warrick
                    : County, named for Captain Jacob Warrick, killed in the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    .
            White river: Translation of the name originally given by the French, "Riviere le
                    Blanche."
            Winaniac: Indian word meaning captive.
            Yaiikeetown: This word Yankee, with various suffixes, forms the name of many places in the 
                        United States
                    . The name is said  to be the Indian pronunciation of
                    the word "English," and bestowed upon the inhabitants of 
                        New England
                     by the people of 
                        Virginia
                     when they refused to aid them in the war with the Cherokees; it meaning to them
                    "cowardice." After the battle of Bunker Hill, the people of 
                        New England
                     having established a reputation for bravery, accepted the name and gloried in it.
            An analysis of this list, supplemented by other names not included in it, will reveal that our county
                    names in particular reflect that American sense of patriotism that in an earlier day delighted to
                    honor the men who had served the nation and the State, especially in a military capacity. Of the
                    ninety-two counties in the State, seventy-eight are named for such men. Some of these had little
                    more than a local fame, but were none the less grounded in the patriotic esteem. Six of
                            them—
                  Madison, Monroe, Washington
               ,
                    Jefferson, Jackson, Harrison and Adams, were named for Presidents of the 
                        United States
                    . Six—
                        Huntington
                    , 
                        Carroll
                    , 
                  Franklin, Hamilton, Hancock
                and
                    Jay—were named for signers of the Declaration of Independence, and sixteen for soldiers
                    of national fame. Civilians of nation-wide fame thus honored were DeWitt Clinton, Thomas H. Benton,
                    Henry Clay, Robert Fulton, Chief Justice Marshall and Patrick Henry.
            Howard county perpetuates the memory of Tilghman A. Howard. 
                        Grant county
                     was named for two Grant brothers, Samuel and Moses, early settlers in this region.
                    Parke, for Benjamin Parke, one of the earliest of the educators in the State. He founded the State
                    law library, was the first president of the Indiana Historical Society and cooperated in the
                    founding of the 
                        Vincennes
                     library and university. 
                        Vigo county
                     was named for Colonel Francis Vigo, a Sardinian, whose services were invaluable to
                    General Clark in the capture of 
                        Vincennes
                    . The bell now hanging in the courthouse at 
                        Terre Haute
                     was bought by the $500 set apart in his will to show his appreciation of the
                    people giving his name to the county. 
                        Brown county
                     was named for General Jacob Brown, a soldier of 1812, and 
                        Blackford
                     for Judge Isaac Blackford, one of our most notable jurists.
            To quote from another newspaper writer: Many towiis in Indiana 
                    have peculiar names, but the origin of the names is often much more so. 
                        Clay county
                     has her share of such towns. For instance, Bowling Green, the former and original
                    county-seat of this county, was so named from the fancied resemblance of the plat of greensward
                    selected for the court-house square to the lawn in the city of 
                        New York
                     dedicated to the game of bowling and known as the "bowling green,"
                    where, in colonial days stood the leaden statue of King George, which was demolished by the patriots
                    in revolutionary times and molded into bullets.
            Benwood, a town in the north part of the county, derived its name from the same source as did the
                    first station on the Vandalia railroad out of 
                        Indianapolis
                     west. A familiar character along the line of this road, during the time that wood was
                    used for fuel, was Ben Davis, the agent of the railroad company, who measured and received the
                    cordwood stacked by the side of the track. In the naming of Benwood, it is readily perceived that
                    the first name of the agent and "wood" are combined.
            Carbon, the principal town on the Big Four, between Green-castle and 
                        Terre Haute
                    , was so named by its projector for the reason that it owes its existence to the
                    deposits of coal developed there.
            Cardonia was projected, platted and improved by the 
                        Clay
                     Coal Company, of which John F. Card was president, which affords the reason for its
                    having been so named.
            Cory, on the E. & I. railroad, was named in honor of Simon Cory, a pioneer merchant and
                    well-known hardware dealer at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , who was interested in the building of the road.
            Coffee, a postoffice down on the old 
                        Louisville
                     road, had a narrow escape from being christened "Molasses" or
                    "Pepper." This office was established something over seventy years ago, at a
                    little country store, where A. J. Barber, for forty years a conspicuous character in 
                        this county
                    , was employed as clerk. The petition for the postoffice having been granted, a party of
                    citizens and patrons assembled at the store to agree on and recommend a name for it. Failing to
                    agree, they appealed to Barber, who was just then engaged in making an inventory of goods. Casting
                    his eye back on his inventory, he said, "Oh, call it coffee," which  was the second last item enumerated—and so they named it by
                    common consent. The item on the bill immediately preceding was molasses, and pepper was that which
                    followed.
            Saline, a station on the E. & I. railroad, twenty miles southeast of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , on being called out by trainmen, has provoked the inquiry of many passengers over the
                    road as to whether there are any salt-works in the immediate vicinity of the place—a
                    natural inference from the name—and when answered negatively, are at a loss to know why
                    the town was so called. But the pioneer who laid out the place, who knew the site and its
                    surroundings for many years before the town or railroad was thought of, gave it this name from the
                    fact that a quarter of a mile from the site of the railroad station was the strongest and most
                    frequented "salt lick" in this or adjoining counties, the deer actually
                    undermining and felling a large oak tree by their persistent and continuous licking of the
                    saliferous soil underneath.
            Martz postoffice, at the town of 
                        Middlebury
                    , established by the aid of C. M. Thompson, then postmaster at 
                        Bowling Green
                    . under the Pierce administration, was named in remembrance of Mr. Thompson, whose
                    middle name is Martz. Middlebury, the name of the town proper, was conferred by Elias Cooprider, who
                    selected the name from the old elementary spelling book.
            
               
                        Clay City
                     was originally platted in 1873 as Markland, in honor of an Indiana regimental officer
                    in the civil war, who then held a responsible position in the postal service. When the application
                    was made for a postoffice, as another had been granted and called Markland during the interval, it
                    was necessary to choose another name. Morton C. Hunter, of 
                        Bloomington
                    . then represented this district in Congress, and his brother was the railroad agent
                    here. Taking advantage of the opportunity, and without the knowledge of the patrons of the
                    prospective office, a commission was sent to Mrs. Hunter, wife of the agent, who took charge of the
                    office, the same being christened Huntersville.
            As Morton C. Hunter was unpopular with his constituency here, his action met with almost universal
                    disapproval, resulting in the calling of an indignation meeting, which resolved to put forth a
                    united effort to undo what had been done. To this end  a
                    committee was chosen to propose and report a name appropriate in common for both the town and
                    office. This committee recommended "
                        Clay City
                    ," which was unanimously adopted, the change effected and the name of the town
                    subsequently made to conform to that of the office.
            
               
                        Brazil
                    , the name of the present county-seat and the largest city in 
                        the county
                    , is invested with a great deal of dubiousness as to source of origin. At the time it
                    was launched by the "proprietor" of the town, Owen Thorp, it was the only one
                    bearing this name in the country. The accepted story is that Thorp was governed in the selection of
                    a name by the frequent occurrence of "
                        Brazil
                    " in an Eastern paper, which he received daily by stage, as an insurrection
                    prevailed at that time in 
                        Brazil
                    , South America.
            There is in Indiana quite a sprinkling of names that are reminiscent of literature and the classics.
                    Indiana-polis itself has its Greek terminal, and less mixed examples are 
                        Albion
                    , 
                        Arcadia
                    , 
                        Argos
                    , 
                        Attica
                    , 
                  Auburn, Aurora
               , 
                        Avilla
                    , 
                        Carthage
                    , 
                        Cicero
                    , 
                        Delphi
                    , 
                  Milton, Odon
               , 
                        Orestes
                    , 
                        Ossian
                    , 
                        Oxford
                     and others.
            Curiously enough foreign personages and events nowise connected with our history crop out in our
                    nomenclature. Paoli and 
                        Kosciusko
                     were respectively Italian and Polish patriots. 
                        Secola
                    , 
                        Marengo
                    , 
                        Vistula
                    , 
                        Warsaw
                     and 
                        Trafalgar
                    , all names of towns, are echoes of the wars of other lands. Stobo, a handful of houses
                    in 
                        Monroe county
                    , is named for Robert Stobo, an adventurous and now forgotten Scotchman, who figured in
                    the French and Indian war under the flag of 
                        Virginia
                    . Who remembered him in the christening of this hamlet two generations after his death
                    is now lost to history.
            A number of Indiana cities have nicknames which are or have been more or less in vogue, though some
                    of these have become inappropriate as conditions have changed. One writer supplies the following
                    list:
            
               
                        Irvington
                     is known as the "Classic Suburb" because it is suburban to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and is the seat of Butler College, the leading educational institution of the State
                    capital.
            
               
                        Evansville
                     is called the "Crescent City" from its location on the outer side of
                    a curve in the 
                        Ohio
                     river; the "Pocket City," from 
                    its location in and as the metropolis of that part of the State popularly designated as
                    "The Pocket."
            
               
                        Terre Haute
                     is the "
                        Prairie City
                    ," from its location on Ft. Harrison's prairie, a section of the 
                        Wabash
                     valley made memorable and historic by the campaign of General William Henry Harrison
                    against the Indians.
            
               
                        Ft. Wayne
                     is known as the "Summit City," from the comparative elevation of the
                    site on which it is located.
            
               
                        South Bend
                     is called the "Metropolis of Northern Indiana," from its population
                    and importance, having more than one hundred manufacturing establishments, and as the seat of Notre
                    Dame University, the largest Roman Catholic school in the 
                        United States
                    . It is called the "Wagon City," because the great Studebaker plant is
                    located there, the largest of its kind in the world. 
                        South Bend
                     is also called the "Lotion City," from the many quack preparations,
                    dermic remedies, etc., advertised as manufactured there.
            
               
                        Richmond
                     is called the "
                        Quaker City
                     of the West," the Society of Friends composing a large per cent. of its
                    population and controlling largely its institutions. Earlham College is located in this city.
            Anderson is called the "Pittsburg of the White River Valley,"
                    because of its extensive manufacturing interests, especially in iron and glass.
            
               
                        Madison
                     is known as the "City 'Neath the Hills," from its
                    picturesque location on the banks of the 
                        Ohio
                     river; the marginal heights and bluffs bordering the river overlooking the city.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     is the "Old Post," familiarly and historically; also the
                    "Pioneer City of the Wabash Valley."
            Wahash is known as the "Rock City," the hills on which much of the city is located
                    being composed of solid stone.
            
               
                        Logansport
                     is the "City of Bridges," being located on both the 
                        Wabash
                     and Eel rivers, the two streams spanned by mole than twenty bridges within the
                    corporate limits for street and railway crossings. It is also called the "City of
                    Churches," having nineteen Protestant church buildings with a membership of  five thousand in a total population of less than four times that
                    number, not counting the Catholic institutions.
            
               
                        Huntington
                     is the "Lime City" on account of its celebrated white lime, which is
                    manufactured and shipped to all markets.
            
               
                        Bedford
                     is the "Stone City" because of its practically unlimited supply of
                    the finest and best oolitic limestone in the world.
            
               
                        Lafayette
                     is the "Star City," the name acquired in the early history of the
                    place because of location and relative importance, shining as a star of first magnitude in the fancy
                    of its people, as contrasted with its satellites.
            
               
                        Auburn
                     is the "Buggy City," having four large factories, producing more
                    buggies than any other city or town in the State.
            Bluffton is the "Asphalt City," its streets generally being paved with asphalt,
                    contributing to the beauty and cleanliness of the place.
            
               
                        Bloomington
                     is the "University City," because it is the seat of the State
                    University, one of the oldest educational institutions in the West.
            
               
                        Elwood
                     is the "Gem City of the Gas Belt" for most obvious reasons. It is
                    also the "Buckle of the Gas Belt," as it is practically the center of the field.
            
               
                        Elkhart
                     is the "City of Musical Doings," the home of more musicians and
                    virtuosos of distinction than any other city of the same size in the State. or. perhaps, in the 
                        United States
                    , with a large musical instrument factory and a conservatory of music. Pupils go there
                    from all parts of the country to study music. It is also known as the "Independent
                    State," a local sobriquet given it by 
                        Goshen
                    , the county seat, and other surrounding towns, out of jealousy over its fancied
                    assumption of importance.
            Peru is the "Barbecue City," so named from its numerous barbecues of phenomenal
                    proportions in presidential campaigns.
            
               
                        Brazil
                     is the "Black Diamond City." from its output of block coal, this
                    quality of coal having been named "black diamond" because of its superior value in
                    the motivity of the industrial and productive world. It is called the "
                        Clay
                     Metropolis" from its output of clay and clay products and utilities, having
                    eight or ten large manufacturing plants in this industry alone.
            
            
               
                        Angola
                     is the "Hub," locally; "Gola," for short.
            Martinsville is the "Artesian City," so named from its seven mineral wells and five
                    sanitoriums.
            
               
                        Crawfordsville
                     is the "Hoosier Athens," because of its educational facilities; the
                    seat of 
                        Wabash
                     College, one of the oldest and most reputable educational institutions in the West. It
                    is also the "Hoosier Wool Market," purchasing and handling more wool than any
                    other place in the 
                        Wabash
                     valley.
            
               
                        Frankfort
                     is the "Gem City of Hoosierdom' because of its beautiful streets,
                    residences and business blocks, as well as its generally handsome and attractive appearance.
            
               
                        Muncie
                     is the "Magic City of the Gas Belt," from its almost unprecedented
                    development in manufacturing industries and corresponding growth in population and business incident
                    to the discovery and utilization of gas.
            
               
                        Rockport
                     is the "Bluff City," because it is situated on the rugged heights
                    overlooking the 
                        Ohio
                     river; perhaps as much as eighty feet above high water mark.
            Laporte is the "Maple City" on account of its miles of streets lined with maple
                    trees. Laporte lays claim to being the handsomest city in the 
                        United States
                    .
            
               
                        Lawrenceburg
                     is the "
                        Garden City
                     of the World," so known in its earlier history and prior to the floods of 1847
                    and 1884.
            
               
                        Jeffersonville
                    , until within recent years, was the "Gretna Green of the Ohio
                    Valley" because of the many marriages of runaway couples from 
                        Kentucky
                     and other States, taking its cue from 
                        Gretna Green
                    , 
                        Scotland
                    , just across the border, to which English people used to resort for clandestine
                    marriages. It is also the "Falls City of Indiana," with respect to 
                        Louisville
                    , lying immediately on the opposite side of the 
                        Ohio
                     river.
            
               
                        Valparaiso
                     is the "Normal City," the seat of the Northern Indiana Normal School.
            
               
                        Washington
                     is called "Shoptown" from its factories and industries, more
                    especially the railway shops of the 
                        Baltimore
                     & 
                        Ohio
                     Southwestern.
            
               
                        Marion
                     is the "Queen City of the Gas Belt," the beautiful capital of 
                        Grant county
                    .
            
            
               
                        Greencastle
                     is the "College City," the seat of DePauw University, and also the
                    "West Point of Indiana Methodism."
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                     is the "Railroad City," and was formerly known as the "City
                    of Concentric Circles." It is also the "Convention City."
         
         
            ANNUAL HISTORY MEETING.
            [Report prepared by Mr. Logan Esarey, of 
                        Bloomington
                    .]
            THE fifth annual meeting of the Mississippi Valley Historical Association met at 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, May 23, 24 and 25, 1912. The North Central History Teachers'
                    Association and the History Section of the State Teachers' Association met with the
                    first-named association. The association was the guest of the State University, and the Department
                    of History planned and cared for the meeting.
            The first session was held in the auditorium of the Student building. Henry Noble Sherwood, of the
                    University of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , opened the session with a detailed account of the "Settlement of the Slaves
                    of John Randolph in 
                        Ohio
                    ." Professor Harlow Lindley, of Earlham, followed with a glowing tribute to the
                    "Quakers in the Old Northwest." Professor Geiser and Judge Daniel Wait Howe were
                    on the program, but neither was present.
            The evening session was held in the men's gymnasium in order to insure ample room. Judge
                    Howe, president of the Indiana Historical Society, presided. President Bryan welcomed the visitors
                    to the university and city in a neat little address, after which the annual address was given by
                    Professor Andrew C. McLaughlin, of 
                        Chicago
                     University. Professor McLaughlin's subject was "The Supreme Court and
                    Unconstitutional Legislation—Historic Origins." The address was well received.
                    The evening closed with a reception to the visitors given in the parlors of the Student building.
            
            The Friday morning meeting was given up to the Teachers' Section. Miss Herriott Clare
                    Palmer, of 
                        Franklin
                    , spoke for more freedom in teaching history. She especially deprecated a public opinion
                    that would not tolerate the truth. Superintendent McMurray, of 
                        Dekalb
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    , assisted by Dr. Herman T. Lukens, of the Francis W. Parker School, of 
                        Chicago
                    , presented "Teaching History by Type Studies."
            A luncheon was served to the visitors in the commons room at noon.
            In the afternoon of Friday, Oren Grant Libby, of the University of 
                        North Dakota
                    , read a paper on "Our New Northwest." John R. Swanton, of the IJ. S.
                    Bureau of Ethnology, read a paper on "De Soto's Line of March from the Viewpoint
                    of an Ethnologist." Louis Pelzer, of 
                        Iowa
                     University, discussed "Politics in 
                        Iowa
                     from 1852 to 1860," and Dr. Thompson, of 
                        Chicago
                    , had a paper on the "Attitude of the Western Whigs Toward the Convention
                    System."
            At the evening session Dr. Paul Haworth, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , read a paper on the "Truth about the Kattle of Lake Erie." After the
                    lecture the annual report of Secretary Clarence S. Paine, of Lincoln, Nehraska, was read, and a
                    general business meeting followed. Later the women were entertained by the Women's League
                    of the University, while the men enjoyed a smoker in the lounging rooms of the men's
                    parlors.
            The last session, which was held on Saturday morning, was a joint meeting with the History Teachers
                    of Indiana. Joseph R. H. Moore, of the Manual Training High School of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , spoke on "The Art of Presentation in History." Dr. Carl E. Pray, of
                    the Milwaukee State Normal, followed on "A Proposal for the Federation of History
                    Teachers' Associations," and Dr. Paxson, of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , read the "Report of the Committee on the Certification of High School
                    Teachers of History." The report was discussed by Dr. Harding, of Indiana University.
            It was a very pleasant meeting and the papers read were scholarly.
         
         
         
            REPRINTS.
            THE SCHOOLS OF INDIANAPOLIS—II.
            
               Professor A. C. Shortridge.
            
               The Establishment of the High School and Passing of Private Schools—A Marked Advance in Eleven Years— The First Principles.
                        Origin of the City Library; a Circumstantial and Accurate Statement. Weakness of the Old Law and
                        Difficulties To Be Met—Origin of a Better Law.
            As stated before, there were a number of excellent schools designed to provide for secondary
                    education, but about all of these surrendered and closed their doors before the onward march of the
                    high school. The first to go was the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Female College, the next McLean Female Seminar)., then the private school taught by
                    Messrs. Charles and Mendenhall, and lastly the Baptist Female Institute.
            To be sure, these statements compared with what can be said to-day as to the educational advantages
                    afforded our children including the wonderful growth and present condition of our two great high
                    schools, would seem to represent the days of small things. Certainly it does seem so, but when we
                    are told that in 1863 there were only a few hundred children in the public schools, housed in
                    buildings almost wholly unfit for use, the whole valued at $88,500; with no books nor
                    furniture; with appliances most uncomfortable, and inadequate; and then are told that at the end of
                    eleven years there were enrolled in the schools more than ten times as many children; that the
                    school property had increased more than $600,000; that we had a high school of 380
                    pupils; that already more than 800 colored children were receiving the same school advantages as the
                    white children; that we had a public library as a part of the public school system, with already
                    nearly 13,000 volumes, it would seem really that during that period we had made some progress.
            
            When the 
                        Indianapolis
                     High School was organized there were probably not one hundred high schools in the 
                        United States
                     supported at public expense. The records on file at the seat of government in 1860
                    place the number of free public high schools at forty. The commissioner of education at 
                        Washington City
                     places the number of high schools in 1870 at 160; in 1880 at 800; in 1890 at 2,526; in
                    1900 at 6,005; in 1904 at 7,230, with an attendance of 635,808 students.
            From the organization of the high school to the close of the school year in 1874 there had been four
                    principals—W. A. Bell, Pleasant Bond, W. I. Squire and George P. Brown. In June, 1870,
                    Mr. Bell resigned, having purchased the Indiana School Journal, organ of the State
                    Teachers' Association and of the superintendents of public instruction, and to this new and
                    important work he gave his time for the next twenty-eight years.
            George P. Brown was elected principal in the spring of 1871, and managed the school until the end of
                    the school year in 1874, when, on the resignation of Mr. Shortridge, he was elected superintendent
                    of the city schools. After the resignation of Mr. Bell and before the choice of Mr. Brown, the
                    school was under the direction of two of its leading instructors, Miss Eliza C. Cannel, afterward
                    Mrs. W. A. Bell, and Professor Harvey W. Wiley, now of 
                        Washington City
                    .
            It is to the law approved March 3, 1871, that I wish to direct particular attention. This law gave to
                    the city a much larger school board, with increased authority, and led to the establishment of the
                    public library. The results have shown that it has brought larger benefits to the citizens of 
                        Indianapolis
                     than any other school legislation passed by the Legislature of Indiana. It remained on
                    the statute books for twenty-eight years and was succeeded by the law passed in 1899 providing for
                    our present organization.
            There are reasons for which I wish to describe as accurately as possible some of the things which led
                    up to the passage of this law. Sometimes in speaking of the organization of the public library,
                    statements in the newspapers and by public speakers as  to how
                    these things came about have been misleading. Now and then it has been said, as leading citizens
                    have passed away, that they had something to do with the establishment of the public library. Again,
                    it has been said that the sermons and addresses of certain ministers had something to do with it,
                    but as a matter of fact, there is no foundation for any of these statements.
            I think I can give, with entire accuracy, the councils and deliberations which led to the enactment
                    of this law, and I do so now for the reason that a very few of the men who were concerned with me in
                    these deliberations are still alive to bear witness to the truth of my statement.
            The demand for more money to purchase ground, buy furniture and other needed supplies, and for the
                    general betterment of conditions all around, was so pressing by the fall of 1870 that it seemed
                    imperative that at least an effort should be made to improve conditions, opening up new
                    possibilities. The Legislature was soon to assemble and, naturally enough, it was only to the
                    law-makers we could look for relief. Some questions as to the proper way of making our wants known
                    to members of the Assembly were fully considered. Were our needs really what they were represented
                    to be? Again, how to enlist the active support of good citizens and of the public in general in
                    passing the enactment.
            To pass on these questions, I determined to call a conference of a few leading citizens who would be
                    likely to advise wisely. Accordingly, invitations were sent in December to nine or ten men, asking
                    them to meet in an upper room of the Martindale block, opposite the old postoffice, at Market and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     streets. Of the number invited, seven responded to the call. Two men whose advice was
                    often sought and always helpful, were, for some reason, unable to attend. These were W. A. Bell and
                    Clemens Vonnegut. The names of the men who attended this first conference were E. B. Martindale,
                    John Caven, Addison L. Roach, Austin H. Brown, Simon Yandes, Thomas B. Elliott and H. G. Cary.
            The object of the meeting, it was explained, was to be advised  as
                    to some plan or method by which the good of the schools might be promoted. And the advice was
                    desired from citizens who knew much of conditions, but who had nothing to do at the time with the
                    organization and management of the schools.
            After being told of the lessons learned from four or five years of former experience by those in
                    control, it was hoped that the advice would be cheerfully given. Figures were given as evidence of
                    the overcrowded condition of buildings and the small number of seats for the accommodation of
                    children, compared with the large number in the city of school age as shown by the enumeration.
                    Added to all this it could be said there was always insufficient provision made by the city
                    authorities for the construction of houses and the payment of teachers' salaries.
            This information was given the gentlemen, hoping it might prepare their minds for the real work of
                    the evening, the real purpose for which they were asked to meet, namely, to consider certain
                    suggestions as a means of relief—suggestions which, could they be enacted into law, would
                    amply supply the city's needs. These suggestions were for a larger school board, composed
                    of at least three or four times as many members as at present, elected by a vote of the people on a
                    day and at a time at which no other officers were to be chosen, for the term of three years,
                    one-third of them to retire annually and give place to their successors, all to serve without
                    compensation; the board of education to be authorized to district the city for school purposes, to
                    examine and license at will all persons who might apply for positions as teachers, to levy all taxes
                    needful for the construction of buildings, the payment of teachers, the purchase of furniture and
                    other supplies and to pay incidental expenses; and finally, the board to be authorized to establish
                    and maintain a public library.
            The larger board would bring more and wiser counsels, admit of standing committees and, when chosen
                    thus, the people would feel more fully their responsibility for the management of the schools. To
                    place the election on a day and time when no other offices were to be filled would lessen the
                    ever-present tendency  to run things into politics, and to
                    minimize as much as possible the baleful influences that follow in the trail of the ward politician.
            The provision that no compensation should be paid to them would strengthen the probabilities of
                    finding honest, dignified, capable men—men who would accept it for the good they might do
                    and who would not want it for what they could get out of it—men who could be trusted to
                    discharge any duty that might devolve upon them. To retire one-third of the board each year would
                    leave always an experienced two-thirds. To give the board authority to license teachers was to
                    relieve of that duty an officer who had no relation whatever to the city schools and to place the
                    responsibility where it belonged. To authorize the board to levy the necessary taxes was to place
                    the responsibility where it should be—upon men who, by careful investigation, could
                    really know the wants of the city as no one else could.
            A searching and painstaking examination by the school trustees of what revenues were needed to
                    operate the schools always went unheeded by the city councils under the old law. There was now and
                    then a semblance of interest shown by a so-called committee on education, but it was always a source
                    of mischief. This committee was generally troublesome and noisy, as they were ignorant of
                    necessities.
            To give the board authority to levy a tax for library purposes would be followed by most beneficial
                    results. There was a constant and growing demand for reference books. This demand came both from the
                    teachers and the pupils of the high and grammar schools, and well selected books for general reading
                    would be of great service to them as well as to the public at large.
            The foregoing suggestions as to what the proposed law should provide for were most cordially
                    received, and it was gratifying to the author to know that not one of them was rejected. There was
                    some question as to whether the rate of the tax for library purposes had better be left to the
                    Assembly or allowed to be fixed by the school board. One or two thought it would be advisable to put
                    the library clause in a separate bill, as it might lessen the 
                    chances for passing the main one, but, in response to an earnest appeal by Judge Roach, it was
                    decided not only to put the library clause, but also the rate of the levy into the body of the bill
                    to be offered. The conference adjourned in a very hopeful state of mind, after appointing a
                    committee consisting of Austin H. Brown, Judge Roach, and the writer, to prepare a bill embodying
                    the suggestions made in the memoranda. The committee after adjournment talked of the matter and
                    agreed that Mr. Brown should take the memoranda and prepare the bill, after which another conference
                    should be called to hear the committee's report. Several things were not agreed upon,
                    either by the committee or the meeting of the citizens. These of his own accord Mr. Brown inserted:
            
               The designation of the board, the Board of School Commissioners.
               The rate of the tax levy, one-fifth of a mill on the hundred dollars' worth of
                        taxable property.
               The special day on which the election should be held, the second Saturday of June each
                    year.
            
            After two days of hard work the chairman reported the bill ready for the inspection of the committee.
                    A meeting was called at once. The bill was approved by the committee and another conference of
                    citizens was called. To this second conference, all who attended the first were invited. In addition
                    the four members of the House of Representatives, the three members of the school board and a few
                    other prominent citizens were present. I cannot certainly call to mind, but I think most of the
                    persons invited to the meeting responded to the invitation. The bill as prepared by the committee
                    was read and every section of it carefully scrutinized by those who were present.
            There were no objections whatever to any of its provisions, everybody thinking that it as nearly met
                    our needs as it was possible to make it. After a pledge by all who were present, including the
                    members of the General Assembly, and Messrs. E. B. Martindale, John Caven, James H. Ruddle, Fielding
                    Beeler, Edward King and Oliver M. Wilson, that every proper effort should  be put forth to secure its passage, the meeting adjourned at once.
            I had the clerk of the school board prepare a duplicate copy, and, after a comparison to see that the
                    two copies were alike, I took them to the capitol, where the Legislature was already in session, and
                    the bills were at once introduced, read and referred to committees, one bill in either branch of the
                    Assembly.
            The measure in the Senate, under the guidance of Messrs. Martindale and Caven, had comparatively easy
                    sailing, but the one in the other branch met many obstacles. In the House the management of the bill
                    was intrusted to Mr. Ruddle, a bright young attorney of this county, who championed the bill with
                    marked ability.
            In due time the measure was passed, and on the 3d day of March, 1871, was approved by the Governor.
                    It provided wisely, as results have shown, for the organization and management of the schools for
                    twenty-eight years, three or four times as long as any other measure for the same purpose, and for
                    the establishment of the public library, an institution so highly prized by all our citizens.
            RECOLLECTIONS OF BEECHER.
            [A letter from Mrs. Jane Menill Ketcham in The 
                        Indianapolis
                     News, April 22, 1908.]
            The story in one of the late March numbers of The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Kews, told by Mr. Norwood of General John Coburn (as a lad) remembering Mr.
                    Beecher's good time on a raft, opened the floodgates of memory. I can tell the story of
                    that raft. It was in 1845. Indianapolitans then, as now, were from every State in the Union, and
                    then, as now, were noted for sociability and hospitality. The Legislature, the Supreme Court and
                    conventions from everywhere met in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . My father's house was large and hospitable, set on a hill with large grounds,
                    on the corner of Kew Jersey and Merrill streets where now stands the Catharine Merrill public
                    school. Before the severe weather set  in it was decided to have
                    a grand social reunion. Colonel Samuel Merrill, then a lad of thirteen or fourteen, was to drive
                    straight up 
                        New Jersey
                     street, first to Mr. Beecher's, with invitations. On the alley east in Market
                    street were two small cottages, occupied by Henry Vance and Charles Beecher, where the Jewish
                    synagogue afterward stood. Our dog Ben had the supervision of the Merrill and Ketcham families. He
                    was a medium size, perfectly black, with a stump of a tail, like a Manx cat. His delight was to be
                    always in evidence quietly, so he ensconced himself under the carriage. The banks of Fall creek had
                    been giving away, causing a deluge to come down, making a large bayou in Market street, between 
                        New Jersey
                     and East streets. Samuel drove, ignorant that Ben was under the carriage. Getting into
                    deep water, Ben found himself in a quandary, as he could not or would not swim out. He betook
                    himself to an old board fence in the middle of the flood, upon which he clambered. Finding the fence
                    would not carry him beyond the water, he set up a piteous howl.
            Hearing the heartrending howls, Mr. Eeecher dashed to the rescue. Discovering Ben's dilemma,
                    he went back to his cottage, took one of his wife's tubs, and with a pole pushed it out
                    into deep water till he reached Ben on the fence. Ben could not be persuaded to get into the tub.
                    Mr. Beecher returned, and, getting another tub, bored holes in both and fastened them together
                    firmly with a clothes line. Again he poled out to the dog. But Ben looked at the rig with disdain.
                    After this failure Mr. Beecher made a raft, which met with Ben's approval. He accepted a
                    place on the raft joyously, and ever after showed his gratitude when Mr. Beecher came to our house
                    by placing his paws on Mr. Beecher's shoulders and wagging his stump of n tail vigorously.
            Such a flood as that had never been seen in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but if did not deter our friends—the Bateses, Vances, Fletchers,
                    Tom-linsons, Douglasses and others—from coming. Such a gay day and evening is delightful
                    to remember.
            In 1853 Mrs. L. M. Vance and I visited 
                        New York
                     city. Mr.  and Mrs. Beecher came and took us over to
                    their home on 
                        Columbia
                     Heights for a visit. With them we saw Central Park —then just mud and rocks,
                    now so lovely. Then he took us through a man-of-war, which had been around the world fifteen times.
                    It was marvelously clean, down to the cistern of sparkling water, delicious to the taste. He showed
                    us the wonders of the whole city. He also took us out to Greenwood, and, standing by the graves of
                    little George and Kate, he waved his hands toward the ocean, beautifully blue in the distance, and
                    said with much feeling: "I chose this spot." And he should rest there till the
                    resurrection.
            After a Sunday's service he asked me what I thought of the singing. "It had
                    thrilled me. Never had I heard anything like it—three thousand singing
                    together." But, I added, "as for music, it will not compare with what you had in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ." "I have never anywhere heard such," he said. Then, after a
                    long pause: "I have never had any fun since." He surely remembered it all.
            "OLE DAN TUCKER."
            The once famous song, "Ole Dan Tucker," is said to have originated in 
                        North Carolina
                    , and one who "knew it from her earliest youth" gives this information
                    about it:
            " ‘Ole Dan Tucker,’ " she says, "was adjustable. You
                    began singing it where you chose, and could play both ends against the middle, or sing it backward
                    or forward, or improvise topical stanzas according to your mind and skill. It was a fine dancing
                    tune, and the black fiddlers often sang it as they fiddled, the prompter meanwhile racking his wits
                    to find new figures to keep the proper rhythms." The singing was commonly in negro dialect,
                    but not invariably so. Roystering young blades riding home from a long dance around 5
                    o'clock in the morning did as they pleased with the song. There were lawless and
                    high-colored versions, such as could not be given unexpurgated before ladies, but "the
                    sedatest could take no offense at the authorized ballad, which, indeed, was often used as a
                    lullaby," in part as follows: 
                    
                        Ole Dan'l Tucker clomb a tree, His Lord and Marster for to see. De limb hit broke
                            and Dan got a fall— Nuver got to see his Lord at all!
                        Git out o' the way, Ole Dan Tucker! Git out o' the way, Ole Dan Tucker! Git
                            out o' the way, Ole Dan Tucker! You're too late to git your supper.
                        Miss Tucker she went out one day To ride with Dan in a one-horse sleigh. De sleigh was broke,
                            and de horse was blind— Miss Tucker she got left behind. Git out o' the
                            way, etc.
                        As I come down de new-cut road I spied de peckerwood and de toad, And every time de toad
                            would jump De peckerwood hopped upon de stump. Git out o' the way, etc.
                        And next upon de gravel road I met Brer Tarrypin and Brer Toad, And every time Brer Toad
                            would sing Hrer Tarrypin cut de pigeon wing. Git out o' the way, etc.
                        Ole Dan and me we did fall out, And what d'ye reckon it was about? He trod on my
                            corn and I kicked him on the shins; That's jest the way this row begins. Git out
                            o' the way, etc.
                        If Ole Dan he had co'n to buy, He'd mo'ne and wipe his
                            weepin' eye; But when Ole Dan had co'n to sell, He was as sassy as all
                            hell. Git out o' the way, etc.
                    
                
         
         
         
            EDITORIAL.
            THE INDIANA UNIVERSITY HISTORICAL SURVEY.
            Indiana University, through its historical department, is undertaking the ambitious and commendable
                    task of preparing a memorial of Indiana's centennial year, in the form of a
                    students' history or historical reference work of the State. This work, under the direction
                    of Professor J. A. Woodburn, will be of composite authorship, a number of special studies to be
                    contributed by those who are working in history at the university.
            When one considers the handicap to honest historical writing from the bread-and-butter point of view,
                    and reflects that the larger part of the historical field is occupied by the gilt-edged abortion of
                    commerce, one hails with especial appreciation work of this sort by an institution that has the
                    ability as well as the will to promote it. Aside from exceptional instances, about the only one who
                    can afford to give time to historical research with a view to adding to historical literature
                    something of worth is the college man, who does it as part of his school work, either as student or
                    professional teacher.
            A prospectus of the table of contents of the Indiana University history will give an idea of its
                    scope:
            Indiana History—
            
               Provincial History.
               Indiana Under the Old Constitution.
               Indiana Under the New Constitution.
            
            Compilations—
            
               Indiana Newspaper Directory—Historical.
               Biographical Dictionary of Indiana.
               Historical Statistics of Indiana.
               Bibliography of Indiana.
               Maps and Charts.
            
            
            Archives—
            
               
                  
                            Vincennes
                        .
               Territorial and Indian.
               War of 1812.
               Correspondence of the Governors.
               Mexican War.
               Civil War.
            
            Monographs—
            
               Early Settlements.
               Economic Development.
               Population.
               Religion.
               Politics.
               Constitutional.
            
            DOCUMENTARY FINDS.
            Documentary material of interest is apt to turn up in many places, likely and unlikely, and we call
                    attention to the fact that among the likely places are the bound files of old newspapers. By this we
                    mean matter extraneous to the files themselves which, very often, has been bound in with the papers
                    for preservation and which sometimes is discovered by chance as one runs over the volume.
                    Illustrations of this are afforded by the early 
                        Indianapolis
                     files in the city library. In these, among other things, are isolated copies of rare
                    newspapers other than those malting up the files, which, not being catalogued, have lain there for
                    years before found.
            A more striking example is that of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Sun files, securcd at great expense some years ago by the State Library much as these
                    have been looked over by delvers in local history, it seems not to have been appreciated until
                    recently that certain volumes contain, aside from the newspapers, a quite valuable collection of
                    miscellaneous material consisting of candidates' appeals to voters, muster meetings,
                    funeral notices, church minutes, matter relating to Liberian colonization, circus bills, theater
                    bills, horse bills, etc. The advertisement reproduced in our frontispiece is an interesting sample
                    of this material. The feature that is particularly notable is the last paragraph,  which shows that in Indiana, as late as 1830, bear-baiting was
                    countenanced. A theater bill dated 1825 advertising a performance of Kotzebu's
                    "Stranger" reveals that at that time 
                        Vincennes
                     boasted an amateur dramatic organization known as "The Thespian
                    Society."
            The appeals to voters, printed in the form of little hand-bills, are illuminative as showing the
                    political spirit of the times, and in some instances they show up the personality of candidates in a
                    rather amusing fashion, as witness this one, which we present verbatim:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To the free and enlightened Electors of 
                                        Knox county
                                    .
                        My Countrymen:
                        Actuated by the coercive emotions of the Patriot, I accept of this opportunity again
                                    to express to you my inclination to become the Protector and Preserver of your civil
                                    Rights: of my ability you do not, you cannot doubt. In humble return for your many
                                    public and private demonstrations of confidence and respect, permit me thus to
                                    testify my gratitude and esteem.
                        While my limbs were engaged in the service of our country—while their
                                    vigor and firmness were decaying, the ornaments of the MIND were brightening by the
                                    collision of ideas. While the soul has been electrified in the thunders of war,
                                    whirled in the vortex of revolution, and at last intensely devoted to the
                                    organization of a REPUBLIC, Experience and Reflection, Study and Application, have
                                    caused the Hero of Patriotism to become more enlightened by her enlivening rays.
                        The chilly Lakes of the North, the scorching sands of the South, the bleak, blue
                                    mountains of the East, the humid plains of the West, have not alone wondered at my
                                    noble daring in battle -but the cerulean fields of Neptune, the engulfing waves of
                                    the Ocean, and the mural shores of many nations, have witnessed the valor of my arm,
                                    and re-echoed the thunder of our Cannon.
                        My Friends—I was first aroused by the rude clamor of war—when
                                    "bloodily the Sun began to peer above yon dusky
                                    hill"—the toil for liberty kept me watchful, and since the
                                    sombre shades of Independence have forced on 11s the slumbering contentment of
                                    Peace, diffusing the calm of solitude around me, amid "the  dull pursuits of civil life," I am still awake
                                    to your happiness and prosperity. If, therefore, these can be augmented by my
                                    talents and assiduity in the impartial effusion of JUSTICE, I shall act with the
                                    same happiness and effect, if elected to the office of
                        ASSISTANT JUDGE.
                        I would not, my Countrymen, have you imagine that pen and paper are the only
                                    testimony of my capacity and eloquence:—Ask the Soldier whose tongue
                                    directed him to the Fight?—Whose courage inflamed, and whose conduct
                                    sustained him in Battle?—Whose voice animated the fatigued, fainting
                                    Warrior? —Who led the van, in carving the way to Victory,
                                    "seeking the bubble, reputation, even in the cannon's
                                    mouth."
                        Often I have been engaged in the doubtful conflict of contending armies—I
                                    have known the worth of victory—I have heard the groans of dying
                                    brothers—I have seen my own veins' crimson fluid
                                    flowing—Who, then, so richly deserves the civic honors, as the one who so
                                    dearly purchased our liberties and defended our rights?
                        
                                    I remain, my Countrymen, Your Soldier and Friend,
                                    And, I hope, Assistant Judge,
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    
                                       Vincennes
                                    
                                 
                              ,
                                            Feb. 16, 1816.
                                    JOHN MCBAIN.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
            REVIEWS OF BOOKS.
            A HOOSIER VILLAGE.
            "A Hoosier Village: A Sociological Study, with Special Reference to Social
                    Causation," by Newell Leroy Sims, published by 
                        Columbia
                     University as one in a series of studies in political science, may fairly be called
                    unique as a contribution to sociology. It takes for its theme a subject so common and near at hand
                    that one is slow to think of it as containing material for nearly two hundred pages of very
                    interesting reading.
            Mr. Sims is thoroughly conversant with the community of which he writes, his three years special
                    study of the data for this thesis being strengthened by the fact that previously it had been for
                    many years his home, and he goes at it with a scalpel so industriously  that few tissues are left undissected. He considers exhaustively its
                    activities and character in their various phases, and by the light of their historical antecedents.
                    This includes natural environment, elements of population, industries, education, religion,
                    politics, amusements, and other community factors with their many subdivisions.
            The host of closely observed facts set forth by Mr. Sims gives one a clear and impressive idea of the
                    operation of social forces operating in a village or small town as distinguished from simple
                    isolated country life on the one hand, or from complex city life on the other, and one's
                    view of social phases generally is illuminated. Just how much light, however, is thrown on the
                    "social causation" which the author aims to elucidate is not so certain. The
                    difficulty of an intensive study of a small unit, like this one, is to distinguish clearly between
                    local cause and effect and more general facts. While communities of a given size may differ from
                    each other owing to local causes, yet back of their more numerous points of resemblance lie causes
                    that are wide as the nation or the race. The belief that life in a Hoosier village is quite
                    distinctively racy and of the soil is an error that has been widely fostered by our literature,
                    whereas a country town in Indiana has in it the characteristics of the country town elsewhere,
                    particularly throughout the Middle West. We do not mean to say that Mr. Sims lends himself to this
                    error. On the contrary, he continually attempts to distinguish between the local and the general
                    elements of his study. The reader with the facts before him is at liberty to sift these elements for
                    himself, and even if he fails to get much out of the few chapters on "social
                    causation" that summarize Mr. Sims's conclusions, he cannot but find in the
                    nineteen other chapters a mass of data that every sociological student should know of.
            The village studied, fictitiously designated as Aton, is thinly disguised as to its identity, when,
                    in addition to the description of its natural environment, we are told that it is in the extreme
                    northeastern corner of Indiana, and the seat of justice of a county full of lakes. 
                        Angola
                    , in 
                        Steuben county
                    , is the only town answering this description.
            
            The price of the book is $1.50, and it may be had through Longmans, Green & Co., 
                        New York
                    .
            G. S. C.
         
         
            THE NEW HISTORY.
            James Harvey Robinson, Professor of History in 
                        Columbia
                     University, presents in a collected form, as so many consecutive chapters, eight essays
                    under the title of "The New History." We cannot say that we find the book
                    particularly illuminative. It is critical and destructive all along the line—a thesis
                    with an argument to maintain, but just what it maintains and just what the "new
                    history" is as distinguished from the broadening conception of history that has been
                    gaining ground for the last half-century we cannot say. Bluntly, Prof. Robinson does not seem to
                    have a talent for directness, his points, whatever they are, being smothered up and lost sight of in
                    too much learned loquacity.
            His argument is, in the first instance, a protest against the monopolizing of history by the
                    chronicles of rulers, political events and spectacular happenings. These, it is implied, are but
                    insignificant features amid the vast and complex forces that play through social development and
                    which make the real history of the human race. This is unquestionably true, but the criticism,
                    however apt it may have been a generation or two ago, sounds rather belated now. Historians are busy
                    now departing from those old notions. From kings, dynasties and spectacular events to a democratic
                    interest in the people and their institutions, thence on to a scientific and philosophical
                    consideration of conditions and causes, the study merging at length with what we call sociology,
                    seems to be the process revealed as we survey the modern changes in history writing. These are the
                    desiderata con templated in the "new history." It may be that there is also
                    something more of a constructive character there, but we fail to catch it. There is in the book much
                    casual information and not a few statements as to the fictions and unreliability of the old
                    histories.
            The price of the work is $1.50; the publishers The Macmillan Company, 
                        New York
                    .
            G. S. C.
         
      
   
