
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 94, Issue 4, pages 285-393. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:94+issue:4+year:1998&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Cultural Politics on the Indiana Frontier: The American Home Missionary Society and Temperance
                    Reform
            Suzanne Thurman∗
            
            In the first half of the nineteenth century the 
                        United States
                     underwent dramatic changes. Following the War of 1812 the American people witnessed
                    advances in transportation and industrialization. Urbanization and westward expansion transformed
                    the face of America's physical landscape. Immigration, Jacksonian democracy, and religious
                    disestablishment altered the nation's intellectual and cultural landscape. American society was in
                    flux, and its very fluidity challenged the status quo by threatening the eastern
                    Protestant political, religious, and cultural elite.
            Since the founding of the nation this small segment of society had not only controlled religion and
                    politics—two of the most powerful forces in early American history—but also
                    defined what constituted appropriate culture for society. As America's population became more
                    heterogeneous and geographically diverse, however, the eastern elite found its monopoly on power
                    slipping. Republican ideals, fostered by the American Revolution and shaped by rugged, frontier
                    Jacksonians, "democratized" American institutions. Not even Christianity was
                    spared as newer "evangelical denominations" such as the Methodists, Baptists, and
                    Christians challenged the supremacy of the older, more elite Congregationalists and Presbyterians.
                    Unwilling to remain at the fringes of society, these evangelical Christians, argues Nathan Hatch,
                    "shape[d]… culture after their own priorities rather than the priorities
                    outlined by gentlemen such as the framers of the Constitution." During the nineteenth
                    century, then, a struggle ensued between the elite and their newly formed competition for the right
                    to control the forces of religion, politics, and culture in American society.1
            
            This contest centered largely on class. As Paul Johnson argues for nineteenth-century
                            
                  Rochester, New York
               , and by extension other urban areas, the emerging middle
                    class used evangelical Christianity to "control" society and manage the
                    "problems of class, legitimacy, and order generated in the early stages of
                    manufacturing." Yet the 
                  
                     ∗ Suzanne "human is assistant professor of
                            history, Mesa State College, Grand Junction, 
                                Colorado
                            .
                  
                     1 Nathan O. Hatch, The Democratization of American
                                Christianity (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1989), 9, 170-79, 225-26.
               
                     effort to establish legitimacy and authority was not limited to
                    the middle class. As Hatch notes, "clergy from both ends of the social scale battled for
                    cultural authority." "Cultural authority," moreover, was not limited to
                    the issue of "social control." The democratic believers, in Hatch's view, worked
                    diligently to create new religious establishments in unformed frontier communities. And Protestant
                    reformers, argues Jon 
                        Butler
                    , were equally determined "to shape American society and culture, not merely to
                    manage the mundane day-to-day behavior of individuals." Both evangelicals and those who
                    opposed them envisioned a "perfect society" based on the proper mix of politics
                    and religion. Individual behavior, insofar as it was affected by religion and politics, concerned
                    both groups, but establishing a "proper and good" society was each side's larger
                        goal.2
            
            The national debate between the pioneers and the eastern missionaries from the American Home
                    Missionary Society (AHMS), an organization founded primarily by the Presbyterian and Congregational
                    churches to bring religion and manners to the "uncivilized West, took place in microcosm on
                    the Indiana frontier.3 Each group had its own views on what constituted culture
                    and on the function of religion and politics in society. Each group also held certain views about
                    the other, which provoked conflict when they interacted. Such was the case when the pioneers and the
                    AHMS missionaries collided over temperance reform. While the missionaries, who deplored frontier
                    culture, saw the prohibition of alcohol—whether by moral suasion or legal
                    means—as good for society, many pioneers, content with the culture they had created, saw
                    the missionaries' efforts as an imposition of outside standards and a violation of their natural
                    rights. Thus within the issue of temperance reform lie the questions of the larger
                    struggle—who would define the role religion and politics should play in society and who
                    would define what constituted culture? Using temperance reform as a case study, this article
                    explores the cultural and social views of the missionaries and pioneers, their attitudes toward each
                    other, and their struggle for control of the forces of politics, religion, and culture in Indiana
                    from 1826, the year the AHMS 
                  
                            
                        2 Paul E. Johnson, A Shopkeeper's Millennium: Society
                                    and Revivals in 
                              Rochester, New York
                           , 1815-1837 (
                                    New York
                                , 1978), 136-38; Hatch, Democratization of American
                                    Christianity, 226; Jon 
                                    Butler
                                , Awash in a Sea of Faith: Christianizing the American
                                People (
                                    Cambridge
                                , Mass., 1990), 287.
                            Early proponents of religious humanitarianism as a form of social control include John R.
                                Bodo, The Protestant Clergy and Public Issues, 1812-1848 (
                                    Princeton
                                , N.J., 1954); and Clifford S. Griffin, Their Brothers'
                                    Keepers: Moral Stewardship in the 
                                        United States
                                    , 1800-1865 (
                                    New Brunswick
                                , N.J., 1960). For an argument against the theory of social control, see
                                Lois Banner, "Religious Benevolence as Social Control: A Critique of an
                                Interpretation," Journal of American History, LX (June,
                                1973), 23-41.
                        
                  
                     3 Colin Goodykoontz, Home Missions on the American
                                Frontier: With Particular Reference to the American Home Missionary Society
                                    (
                        Caldwell, Idaho
                     , 1939), 173-79; L. C. Rudolph, Hoosier Zion: The Presbyterians in Early Indiana (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1963), 46-52.
               
                     was founded, to 1855, when Indiana passed and repealed a state
                    prohibition law.4
            
            Under the auspices of the American Home Missionary Society, well-trained ministers, predominantly
                    Presbyterian, packed their bags and headed for the "desolate" regions of America.
                    As products of evangelical Protestantism, these missionaries, imbued with a mixture of Christian
                    idealism, eastern elitism, and what L.C. Rudolph describes as "a kind of Calvinistic
                    meddlesomeness," went west to save souls and reform society; the American frontier seemed
                    the perfect setting for their endeavor. When the missionaries received reports of illiterate and
                    "immoral" frontier inhabitants, they felt duty-bound as Christian and
                    "cultured" men to help those whom they presumed cultureless, i.e., lacking in good
                    manners, education, and religious faith. Heralds of a new age, the home missionaries saw themselves
                    not only as benefactors of the deprived but also as "a mirror, in which the
                    Christian… may behold the forlorn conditions of many humble followers of Jesus, who are
                    scattered up & down in our land."5
            
            Missionaries, no less than other Americans, held firmly to the myths surrounding the frontier,
                    especially the paradisiacal conception of the West. In November, 1826, George Bush of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , aware of the hardships of life in "the destitute portions of our
                    country," nevertheless proclaimed the region in which he lived as the "garden
                    spot" of Indiana. His description of Indiana as a land covered with trees
                    "sometimes putting out in leafy promontories, sometimes standing in insulated clusters,
                    sometimes ranged in rows like colonnades," evoked images of Eden. Indeed, being surrounded
                    by such arboreal splendor was like "standing amidst the finest manor-grounds of the Lord of
                    the Creation."6
            
            
               
                  4 This paper is based on research done in the American Home Missionary
                        Society Collection, a collection of the numerous letters and quarterly and annual reports sent
                        by missionaries to the American Home Missionary Society headquarters in 
                            New York City
                        . The original manuscripts are located at the Amistad Research Center, Tulane
                        University, 
                     New Orleans, Louisiana
                  . They are also available on microfilm. For
                        abstracts and an index of the Indiana letters, see L. C. Rudolph, W. W. Wimberly, and Thomas W.
                        Clayton, Indiana Letters: Abstracts of Letters from Missionaries on the Indiana
                            Frontier to the American Hone Missionary Society, 1824–1893 (3 vols., 
                            Ann Arbor
                        , Mich., 1979). In citing the letters, the style of Rudolph et al.
                        has been followed in identifying only the primary recipient of the letter.
               
                  5 Rudolph, Hoosier Zion, 47-48; Leander Cobb to Absalom
                        Peters, 
                            Charlestown
                        , July 7,1828, American Home Missionary Society Collection (Amistad Research Center,
                        Tulane University, 
                     New Orleans, Louisiana
                  ); cited hereafter as AHMS
                        Collection.
               
                  6 George Bush to Absalom Peters, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , November 20, 1826, AHMS Collection. See also Isaac Reed to Matthias Bruen, 
                            Owen County
                        , September 29, 1824, ibid.; Moses H. Wilder to Absalom Peters,
                                
                     Bath, Franklin
                                county
                  , February 8, 1837, ibid. The frontier has
                        held symbolic meaning for Americans since the colonies were founded. One of the earliest images
                        associated with the frontier was Eden, a powerful symbol not only for the missionaries but also
                        for many others who came before and after them. For a discussion of the symbolism of the
                        frontier, see Roderick Nash, Wilderness and the American Mind (
                            New Haven
                        , COM., 1967); and Henry Nash Smith, Virgin Land: The American West as
                            Symbol and Myth (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1950).
            
            
            As beautiful as the countryside may have been, a utopic view of the frontier would surely lead to
                    disappointment. One seasoned missionary, conscious of the realities of the frontier, sent this
                    warning to Absalom Peters at the AHMS headquarters in 
                        New York City
                    : "The fact is, it ought to be distinctly understood beforehand that there is
                    nothing, at present, very inviting, but many things quite the reverse, in most of the situations, in
                    this State, where we wish your missionaries to be placed." Experience showed that those who
                    entered the mission field with romantic notions of the frontier "returned disheartened to
                    the land from whence [they] came."7
            
            Regardless of such advice, many missionaries came west with idyllic visions, which were soon dashed
                    by the reality of frontier life. In 1827 James Crawford, who had recently arrived from the East,
                    reported a list of problems that beset his mission. Small churches spread over a vast expanse
                    discouraged regular attendance and increased the missionaries' work. Potential parishioners were
                    poor, illiterate, uninterested in education, and distrusted a paid and seminary-trained clergy.
                    Finally, "religious sects [were] numerous & blind guides enough to swallow all the
                    camels in Arabia."8
            
            Such letters reflected not only the missionaries' frustrations with the hardships of frontier life
                    but also their annoyance with easterners who had never experienced the problems of the frontier
                    firsthand. In 1827 Philip Cleland wrote the society that "the obstacles in the way of the
                    successful preaching of the gospel in this place are very formidable, but cannot be known except by
                    actually encountering them." "Ignorance… of religious truth,"
                    drunkenness, "Sabbath-breaking," and the "migratory nature" of
                    frontier life made evangelizing difficult. Peter Crocker found the same problems in his mission
                    field of 
                        Richmond
                     several years later and registered his regret that his eastern brethren failed to
                    comprehend the true condition of the frontier.9 Frustrated by these unexpected
                    obstacles, the missionaries adopted a decidedly grim view of the settlers whom they had come to
                    serve.
            The pioneers, more sanguine about the opportunities of the frontier, found a better way to deal with
                    their environment. Forced to depend on each other for survival, settlers developed close-knit
                    communities based on cooperation and common goals. One hallmark of these communities was an
                    egalitarian spirit. All pioneers faced similar challenges, and respect was accorded to those who,
                    regardless of their social origins, persevered in the face of adversity. These shared experiences of
                    the frontier, told and retold as "survival stories," created a "common
                    bond" among the first settlers, a bond so strong, 
                  
                     7 James H. Johnston to Absalom Peters, 
                                Madison
                            , June 13, 1827, AHMS Collection.
                  
                     8 James Crawford to Absalom Peters, 
                                Jefferson County
                            , January 31, 1827, ibid.
                  
                  
                     9 Philip S. Cleland to Absalom Peters, 
                                Jeffersonville
                            , July 6, 1827, ibid.; Peter Crocker to Charles Hall, 
                                Richmond
                            , January 15, 1838, ibid.
                  
               
                     argues Robert Hine, that those who defied it "were
                    instinctively ostracized." Nevertheless, individualism was equally valued. "The
                    community," continues Hine, "existed for the individual, not the other way
                    around." "Although the end might be a common tie, the beginning was not in the
                    ethics of the group but in the supreme value of the individual."10
            
            Missionaries who worked in these enclaves came to a disheartening realization. The frontier was not
                    devoid of culture, as they had naively assumed, but possessed a culture different from what the
                    missionaries knew, a culture comprised of mores often at odds with their conceptions of propriety.
                    Evangelizing the frontier meant changing a preexistent frontier society, not merely transplanting
                    eastern culture into a societal vacuum. The missionaries accepted this task but soon found that
                    those people they had come to help were not only uninterested in changing but also resisted the
                    missionaries' efforts to impose outside (i.e., eastern) standards on their communities. No longer an
                    edenic garden, the frontier had become a cultural and spiritual battleground.
            Deep-seated prejudices on both sides, born largely from regional differences, highlighted the clash
                    of cultures. The missionaries were "genteel" Yankees who, if not born in New 
                        England
                     were educated there, and brought their eastern conceptions of propriety to the
                    frontier. The settlers they hoped to convert were largely uneducated southerners whose behavior was,
                    according to the missionary Stephen Helms, "but a little removed from barbarism."
                    Many missionaries concurred with Helms's assessment. Samuel Lowry of Bainbridge wrote to AHMS
                    headquarters of the large number of southerners in his church, but he could not "undertake
                    to explain all that is meant in this allusion." Other missionaries did so for him.
                    Southerners, they explained, were uneducated and generally indifferent to religion. Those who did go
                    to church absolutely opposed an educated ministry.11
            
            An East-South split along the Indiana frontier was no figment of an embattled missionary's
                    imagination. Until the middle of the nineteenth century the population of Indiana was, in fact,
                    largely southern simply because southerners were the only ones who had access to the interior
                    regions of the state. Whereas vast swamps that covered the northern part of the state steered
                    pioneers from the North 
                  
                     10 Stanley Elkins and Eric McKitrick, "A Meaning for Turner's
                            Frontier, Part I: Democracy in the Old Northwest," Political Science
                                Quarterly, LXE (September, 1954), 325-39; Ray Allen Billington, America's Frontier Heritage (
                                New York
                            , 1966), 143-48; Malcolm J. Rohrbough, The Trans-Appalachian
                                Frontier: People, Societies, and Institutions, 1775–1850 (
                                New York
                            , 1978), 5-7, 165-69; Robert V. Hine, Community on the American
                                Frontier: Separate but Not Alone (
                                Norman
                            , Okla., 1980), 26, 120.
                  
                     11 Rudolph, Hoosier Zion, 37; Stephen D. Helms to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, 
                                Middlebury
                            , January 10,1846, AHMS Collection; Samuel G. Lowry to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, Bainbridge, March 14, 1856, ibid.; Henry Little to
                            Br. N., 
                                Madison
                            , February 1, 1858, ibid.
                  
               
                     and East to the more hospitable terrain of 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    , southerners could migrate north from 
                        Kentucky
                     straight through to the northern counties. The missionaries were well aware of this
                    situation. When Daniel Jones's adversaries in 
                        Warsaw
                    , Indiana, forced him from his pulpit for being a Presbyterian missionary and temperance
                    advocate, he chose to relocate to 
                        Michigan
                     where "transplanted New Englanders" shared his values.12
            
            As much as easterners despised southerners, the settlers displayed equal contempt for eastern
                    ministers. When Daniel Jones settled in Turkey Creek, 
                        Elkhart county
                    , as a first-time missionary in 1836, he "found [himself] among a most
                    inhospitable people who instead of welcoming me to their settlement were disposed to regard me with
                    jealousy." He was befriended by another recent arrival who informed Jones that the local
                    people viewed missionaries "as an imposition" on their community.13
            
            Western prejudice against missionaries manifested itself, among other ways, as denominational
                    rivalry. The frontier contained a large variety of religious sects. Samuel Lowry recorded twelve or
                    thirteen different groups in his mission field of Bainbridge. Rather than see this religious
                    diversity as a boost to faith, however, missionaries believed that a proliferation of sects led to
                    "religious indifference." As John Gilbert lamented, "What a heterogenous
                        [sic] mass composes our population! What religious
                    differences—differences, which in this new country all tend to produce that Indifference which is the predominating fault of our people."14
            
            Many of the frontier sects were hostile to the Presbyterians, sometimes for doctrinal reasons. In 
                        Warsaw
                    , Jacob Conrad encountered several denominations that tried to turn the community
                    against Presbyterians by misrepresenting their Calvinist beliefs. Many denominations also saw the
                    Presbyterians as competitors. James Crawford reported that in his field there was a "motley
                    mixture" of religious groups, although Presbyterians outnumbered the other groups and were
                    generally 
                  
                     12 Rudolph, Hoosier Zion, 30-32; Elfrieda Lang,
                            "Southern Migration to Northern Indiana Before 1850," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, L (December, 1954), 349-56; Richard L. Power, "Wet
                            Lands and the Hoosier Stereotype," 
                        Mississippi
                                valley Historical Review, XXII (June, 1935), 33-48; Rudolph, Hoosier Zion, 3-6; Daniel Jones to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, 
                                Warsaw
                            , February 14, 1838, AHMS Collection; Daniel Jones to Charles Hall, 
                                Warsaw
                            , May 16, 1838, ibid.; Daniel Jones to Charles Hall, 
                                Warsaw
                            , August 17, 1838, Ibid.
                  
                  
                     13 Daniel Jones to Absalom Peters, Turkey Creek, 
                                Elkhart county
                            , January 23, 1836, ibid. Western prejudice against easterners
                            was a common theme in missionary letters. For examples, see John Stocker to AHMS, Delphi,
                            September 9, 1836, ibid.; Alfred Hawes to AHMS, 
                                Marion
                            , October 24, 1848, ibid.
                  
                  
                            
                        14 Samuel G. Lowry to 
                                    Milton
                                 Badger, Bainbridge, March 14, 1856, ibid.; John Gilbert
                                to 
                                    Milton
                                 Badger, 
                                    Marion
                                , March 26, 1845, ibid. See also James Crawford to Absalom
                                Peters, Delphi, July 10, 1832, ibid.; Edmund O. Hovey to Absalom
                                Peters, 
                                    Fountain County
                                , March 30, 1832, ibid.
                     
                            For a description of southern frontier life, the role of religion in frontier society,
                                and sectarian divisions, see Dickson D. Bruce, Jr., And They All Sang
                                    Hallelujah: Plain-Folk Camp Meeting Religion, 1800–1845 (
                                    Knoxville
                                , Tenn., 1974).
                        
               
                     community leaders in "benevolent efforts."
                    Thus many people saw the Presbyterians as "a meddling, monopolizing people who look not on
                    their own things exclusively, but also on the things of others…. Presbyterians are looked
                    upon by some of other denominations with envy & jealousy." Thompson Bird recounted
                    that his mission village of Thorntown was serviced by five preachers and six circuit riders. Having
                    established themselves in Thorntown before Bird, these ministers viewed him and the Presbyterians as
                    "invaders." Furthermore, he noted, members of some of the groups, especially the
                    "Campbellites, Mormons, and Universalists," had been denouncing "college larnt preachers," a reference to the seminary trained
                    Presbyterians. Thomas Anderson faced similar difficulties in 
                        Huntington
                     with the Baptists, who had preceded Anderson to the area by three years and saw the
                    Presbyterians as "intruders."15
            
            Thomas Anderson's trials were not unique, for the greatest challenge the Presbyterians confronted was
                    opposition from the Baptists and Methodists. Both of these groups flourished on the frontier with
                    untrained, often itinerant, ministers and a generally lower-class constituency. Neither group liked
                    competition from the Presbyterians. Claiborne Young experienced problems with both groups in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . The "spirit of jealousy" among "some of our Methodist
                    brethren" undermined Young's attempts to start a Sunday school. His run-ins with the
                    Hardshell Baptists proved equally frustrating. For doctrinal reasons these Baptists, led by Daniel
                    Parker, opposed an "enlightened Ministry, Missionary exertion, Bible and tract societies,
                    Sunday Schools and the temperance cause." Consequently the Baptists in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     would not support the local temperance society, an organization dear to Young's
                        heart.16
            
            The constant clash of religious and cultural values on the frontier influenced the missionaries'
                    generalizations about the people they had come to save. To the missionaries, Westerners were an
                    intemperate, profane, and Sabbath-breaking lot who were either irreligious or belonged to any number
                    of less-than desirable sects. They were also illiterate, uneducated, apathetic, suspicious of
                    newcomers, 
                  
                     15 Jacob E. Conrad to AHMS, 
                                Warsaw
                            , March 9, 1852, AHMS Collection; James Crawford to Absalom Peters, Delphi, July
                            10, 1832, ibid.; Thompson Bird to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, Thorntown, February 25, June 2, 1843, ibid.; Thomas
                            Andersen to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, 
                                Huntington
                            , October 21, 1844, ibid.
                  
                  
                     16 Claiborne Young to Absalom Peters, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , March 8, 1833, ibid.; Rudolph, Hoosier
                            Zion, 21-33. There are many examples of hostilities among Presbyterians, Baptists, and
                            Methodists in missionary letters. Methodists in particular came under severe attack. For
                            example, missionaries in Fort 
                                Wayne
                             who initially felt that the Methodists there were cooperative had changed their
                            mind by 1847, characterizing them as heretics, "mercenaries," and
                            "infidels" with "an organization second in efficiency only to
                            the" papacy. See Charles E. Furman to Absalom Peters, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , February 19, 1830, AHMS Collection; James Chute to Absalom Peters, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , March 12, 1832, ibid.; Charles Beecher to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , July 19, 1847, ibid.
                  
               
                     and resistant to the imposition of outside standards. Such a
                    people, reasoned the missionaries, needed cultural and spiritual enlightenment.
            The settlers, for their part, prized their way of life and were deeply committed to the idea of local
                    autonomy. Westerners accepted internal diversity and accorded a rough equality to various groups
                    within the established community, values that are evident from their acceptance of and accommodation
                    to the proliferation of religious sects. But they also united against outside forces that they felt
                    threatened their community or their individual liberty.
            The settlers' penchant for passing local, as opposed to statewide legislation, reflected the autonomy
                    of local communities on the Indiana frontier. On any given issue communities wanted to decide for
                    themselves what was legal; they did not want even the state government to impose standards on them.
                    Such localism, moreover, was not unique to Indiana. As Malcolm J. Rohrbough notes, "the
                    most significant government for the largest number of people on the trans-Appalachian frontier was
                    at the county level." Nevertheless, excessive local legislation did create problems, and
                    the new constitution that Indiana adopted in 1851 contained two sections aimed at curbing local and
                    special legislation. The Indiana Supreme Court applauded this move "to restore the state
                    from being a coterie of small independencies, with a body of local laws,… to what she
                    should be[,]… a unity, governed throughout her borders on all subjects of common
                    interest, by the same laws."17
            
            The communal character of pioneer society and the missionaries' commitment to changing that society
                    established the boundaries in which the cultural and spiritual battles would take place. The
                    missionaries felt called to reform frontier behavior, believing that as representatives of God and
                    the church they were arbiters of morality for society. Many pioneers resented the missionaries'
                    efforts and resisted missionary activities that they felt encroached on their autonomy as
                    individuals and as communities. Their defense took various forms, from vocal resistance, to accusing
                    the missionaries of allying church and state, to violence.
            One area in which the AHMS missionaries and the Indiana settlers clashed was temperance reform.
                    Curbing America's thirst for alcohol was a concern of many Christians and moral reformers who
                    organized temperance societies and promoted abstention from alcohol. 
                  
                     17 Justin E. Walsh, The Centennial History of the Indiana
                                General Assembly, 1816–1978 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1987), 178; Rohrbough, Trans-Appalachian Frontier, 119; Maize v. The State, 4 Indiana Reports 347-51 (1853).
                            Section 22 of the 1851 constitution prohibited local or special legislation in seventeen
                            "enumerated cases" and in any other situation "where a general
                            law can be made applicable." Charles Kettleborough, Constitution
                                Making in Indiana: A Source Book of Constitutional Documents with Historical
                                Introduction and Critical Notes, 1780–1851 (Indiana Historical
                            Collections, Vol. I; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 318-19.
               
                     The reformers' call struck a chord with the American people,
                    and the number of temperance societies grew quickly. In 1829 the American Society for the Promotion
                    of Temperance alone boasted a thousand clubs with a hundred thousand members; five years later the
                    group's membership had risen to one million. This growth resulted from cooperation among national
                    temperance societies, missionaries, and ministers. In Indiana temperance work fell largely to the
                    Presbyterian missionaries who not only worked closely with legislators and others to form a state
                    temperance society in 1829, but also labored diligently to create local societies in the counties
                    where they lived.18
            
            Some missionaries went beyond forming societies in their promotion of temperance reform. In 1832
                    James Chute, afraid of the influence that inebriated Irish canal workers would have on the community
                    of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , helped the canal contractors and commissioners to negotiate a deal. The contractors
                    agreed not to supply their workers with whiskey, knowing that if they violated this agreement they
                    would lose their contracts.19
            
            That same year James Crawford of Delphi, prompted by a recently passed law that allowed each
                    community to extend or deny liquor licenses, "wrote a protest against the future granting
                    of a [liquor] license to any retailer in" town and obtained the signatures of many who
                    supported such a petition. Crawford's forays into political activity represented a shift in the
                    temperance movement. Initially, temperance reformers advocated abstention from hard liquor while
                    condoning moderate consumption of other alcoholic beverages, a message aimed at the consumer and
                    enforced only by moral suasion. As the 1830s progressed, a more radical sector of the
                    movement—one that believed in total abstention as the only way to solve America's
                    problems—gained strength. These reformers, too, warned consumers about the evils of
                    drink, but they also argued that those who manufactured and sold liquor contributed to the problem.
                    They advocated legislation to stop the manufacture and consumption of alcohol.20
            
            The AHMS missionaries fell into the more radical category. They embraced total abstention, but as W.
                    W. Wimberly points out, 
                  
                     18 Alice Felt Tyler, Freedom's Ferment: Phases of
                                American Social History from the Colonial Period to the Outbreak of the Civil War
                            (1944; reprint, 
                                New York
                            , 1962), 325-38; W. William Wimberly, "Missionary Reforms in Indiana,
                            1826–1860: Education, Temperance, Antislavery" (Ph.D. dissertation,
                            Indiana University, 1977), 177-78; Charles E. Canup, "Temperance Movements and
                            Legislation in Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XVI (March,
                            1920), 3-37; James Crawford to Absalom Peters, Delphi, December 29, 1829, AHMS Collection;
                            John M. Dickey to Absalom Peters, 
                                Clark County
                            , December 23, 1829, ibid.; Uric Maynard to Absalom Peters,
                            Liberty, May 8, 1829, ibid.; Benjamin C. Cressy to Absalom Peters, 
                                Salem
                            , June 7, 1830, ibid.
                  
                  
                     19 James Chute to Absalom Peters, Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , March 12, June 13, September 12, December 17, 1832, ibid.
                  
                  
                     20 James Crawford to Absalom Peters, Delphi, December 12,1832, ibid.; Tyler, Freedom's Ferment, 322-38.
               
                     they remained ambivalent about political involvement in
                    promoting temperance reform. The official Presbyterian position was "that God's church was
                    the only permanently effective instrument of moral reform." Yet as politics and temperance
                    became inextricably entwined, the missionaries became more and more willing to engage in political
                    activity if they believed that it would further their cause. This conjunction of politics and
                    religion among the Presbyterians was what Wimberly calls "a temporary aberration,"
                    but this temporary aberration created a permanent obstacle to the missionaries' plans of reforming
                    the frontier.21
            
            Opposition to temperance measures came from the expected quarters—"distillers,
                    venders, drinkers and drunkards," as James Alexander put it. The problem became more
                    complicated when the economics of temperance affected an entire community, as was the case when a
                    distillery was the central feature of a town. In 1851 Reverend G. C. Judson visited 
                        Aurora
                    , Indiana, and its newly constructed Presbyterian church with AHMS connections. To his
                    dismay he found a large distillery in the town, "upheld and supported," he was
                    told, by "professing Christians." Moreover, the distillery and the Presbyterian
                    church worked hand in glove when it came to finances. Money provided by the distillery owners
                    financed the construction of the new sanctuary, leading locals to call the structure the
                    "whiskey church." Indeed, wrote Judson, "the Presbyterian church would go
                    down at once if the distillery stopped." Uncomfortable with the Presbyterians' reliance on
                    liquor money, Judson, who considered himself a "warm friend" of the missionaries,
                    nevertheless believed that the society's financial support of the church was not "an
                    investment productive of great good."22
            
            Apprised of the situation, the AHMS consulted Indiana missionary Henry Little, who defended the
                    actions of the missionaries in 
                        Aurora
                    . The distillery owners and their families were all Presbyterians, wrote Little, which
                    is why they gave so generously to the church. Furthermore, the owners, who were brothers, were not
                    bad people because of their occupation; they were merely continuing a family tradition. Should they
                    be criticized for following in their father's footsteps? Little did not think so, and he refused to
                    condemn the owners for being distillers or the missionaries for accepting the distillers' money.23
            
            Little's ambivalence toward the situation in 
                        Aurora
                     does not correspond with the firm stance of the missionaries on abstention, nor 
                  
                     21 Wimberly, "Missionary Reforms," 180-82, 217-20,
                            225-26.
                  
                     22 James R. Alexander to Absalom Peters, 
                                Vincennes
                            , January 12, 1830, ibid.; G. C. Judson to Rev. John Marsh,
                            secretary of the American Temperance Union, Berlin, Erie County, 
                                Ohio
                            , July 2, 1851, ibid.
                  
                  
                     23 Henry Little to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, 
                                Madison
                            , July 28, 1852, ibid. For another example of the distillery
                            issue, see H. C. Morse to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, Lima, 
                                Lagrange County
                            , January 4, March 1, 1847, ibid.
                  
               
                     does it align with their goal of changing frontier society. In
                    fact, Little's accommodation to the 
                        Aurora
                     situation parallels the missionaries' accommodation to the use of politics in enforcing
                    temperance, a step that angered many settlers. When the missionaries preached temperance reform from
                    the pulpit, many of their opponents saw an ominous alliance of church and state. In 1834 Samuel Hurd
                    noted that his efforts to promote temperance in 
                        Greensburg
                     were met by resistance and hostility; in fact, "professors of religion,
                    ministers, and whole churches" were "open enemies" of temperance reform.
                    Hurd confronted this problem firsthand when he spoke about temperance to a local Baptist church
                    where one of the ministers "was afraid there was some hidden design in them [temperance
                    societies], perhaps to unite church & state."24
            
            Other ministers met with similar attitudes. When Benjamin Cressy organized a temperance society at 
                        Salem
                     in 1830, his "efforts called forth from those inimical to these proceedings, a
                    strength & virulence of opposition…. 'Church and state; down with
                        the Presbyterians' is the popular cry." Eliphalet 
                        Kent
                     of 
                        Shelbyville
                     met resistance to a variety of reform efforts in which he was involved and experienced
                    "strong & determined opposition from those who wear the badge of a Christian
                    profession. Church and State &c &c—are in their mouths." Michael
                    Remley's efforts at temperance reform in 
                        Jeffersonville
                     generated opposition not only "from the drunkard & the interested
                    shopkeeper from whom I expected it," but also from the pulpit of a Baptist minister who
                    sounded "the infidel note of alarm[,]… 'union of church & state
                    [,]'" as if Remley was "marshaling a fearful host against the liberties of the
                    people." James Crawford too faced resistance to his temperance efforts. Some of the
                    hostility resulted "from the prejudices of the ignorant[,]" he claimed, but some
                    opposition came "from political partisans who… cry Priest-craft, speculation,
                    Church & State, as may serve their turn."25
            
            These church-state accusations were not mere rhetoric, for embedded in them were many of the real
                    fears of frontier society. The Presbyterians' promotion of an issue with political ramifications
                    reinforced the fear of groups like the Baptists that they would be legally forced to comply with
                    demands they opposed for doctrinal reasons. Viewing the Presbyterians as invaders, the Baptists did
                    not 
                  
                     24 Samuel Hurd to Absalom Peters, 
                                Greensburg
                            , October 20, 1834, ibid. Anson Phelps Stokes considers
                            temperance to be a national church-state issue as it was one of "the major problems
                            of national policy in which the Church [was] interested." See Anson Phelps Stokes,
                                Church and State in the 
                                    United States
                                : Historical Development and Contemporary Problems of Religious Freedom
                                under the Constitution (3 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1950), II, 3, 40-42.
                  
                     25 Benjamin C. Cressy to Absalom Peters, 
                                Salem
                            , June 7, 1830, AHMS Collection; Eliphalet 
                                Kent
                             to Absalom Peters, 
                                Shelbyville
                            , May 4, 1830, ibid.; Michael A. Remley to Absalom Peters, 
                                Jeffersonville
                            , March 14, 1831, ibid.; James Crawford to Absalom Peters,
                            Delphi, July 10, 1832, ibid.
                  
               
                     want to be compelled by "outside" forces to
                    uphold something they believed was wrong. Non-Baptists opposed temperance for various other reasons,
                    but all opponents agreed that the church had no business applying political or legal pressure to
                    promote moral reform or dictate individual behavior. Moreover, events such as the one that occurred
                    in 
                        Lagrange County
                     in 1835 suggest that the fear of those who resisted the mixing of law and morality was
                    not unfounded. Christopher Cory, the AHMS missionary in Lima, noted how the presiding judge of the
                    supreme circuit court for 
                        Lagrange County
                    , which was in session at the time, spoke at a local temperance group and advocated the
                    use of "all moral & legal means" to suppress the sale of liquor in the
                        county.26
            
            Further evidence that Westerners took the church-state issue seriously can be seen in their refusal
                    to sign abstinence pledges because, unlike many of their fellow citizens, they believed that doing
                    so infringed on their liberties. Most Americans, argues W. J. Rorabaugh, were attracted by the
                    symbolic activity of temperance societies. Drawing up constitutions and signing abstinence pledges,
                    "actions… analogous to those that the Founding Fathers had taken a half century
                    earlier," appealed to those who saw themselves engaged in their own war against alcohol.
                    Many Westerners, however, viewed the act of signing pledges with suspicion, always fearful that they
                    were "signing away their liberties." One man told George Miller that the church
                    was "a good enough temperance society" for him and he would not sign a pledge. In 
                        Covington
                     an opposition minister urged his congregation not to sign pledges, "for first
                    they know their liberty will be gone—and… their names [will] all [be] carried
                    off to 
                        Washington
                     as reformed drunkards." This opposition was magnified in John Bayer's German
                    church in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . His parishioners tolerated sermons on temperance, but they refused to sign an
                    abstinence pledge because "that would be signing away their liberty, and they are in a free
                    country[.] [T]hey had been long enough in Slavery in Europe."27
            
            The language of rights and liberty appeared repeatedly among temperance opponents. In White Lick,
                    near Dandle, religious opponents of temperance, including ministers, "advocate the liquor
                    traffic 
                  
                     26 Christopher Cory to Absalom Peters, Lima, 
                                Lagrange County
                            , April 1, 1835, ibid.
                  
                  
                            
                        27 W. J. Rorabaugh, The Alcoholic Republic: An American
                                    Tradition (
                                    New York
                                , 1979), 194-95; Thompson Bird to 
                                    Milton
                                 Badger, Thorntown, March 26, 1841, AHMS Collection; George D. Miller to
                                Charles Hall, Romney, August 11, 1846, ibid.; Samuel D. Smith to 
                                    Milton
                                 Badger, 
                                    Covington
                                , March 25, 1846, ibid.; John A. Bayer to 
                                    Milton
                                 Badger, Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                , December 18, 1845, ibid.
                     
                            Other ministers found Germans to be particularly troublesome WO get under Tetoal [sic] Abstanance." Germans resisted temperance arguments and,
                                unlike the Presbyterians, saw no hypocrisy in attending church on Sunday morning and
                                "spending the evening in a social way at a German Inn." John Krack to 
                                    Milton
                                 Badger, 
                                    Madison
                                , April 12, 1844, ibid.; William G. Laitzle to AHMS, 
                                    South Bend
                                , August 6, 1851, February 24, 1852, ibid.
                     
                        
               
                     as biblical and essential to the maintenance of
                    liberty." In 
                        Hartford
                    , Thomas Griffith's comments on temperance riled the local people, who felt he was
                    "encroaching upon their rights." Griffith escaped their wrath, but a Methodist
                    minister who dared to preach on temperance provoked the locals so much that they destroyed his new
                    saddle. Missionary George Miller aroused the opposition in Romney to such a fury that they burned
                    him in effigy outside his own home.28
            
            Despite these violent outbursts, the temperance movement continued to attract followers. In 1845 Asa
                    Johnson reported that several hundred people in Peru had signed an abstinence pledge. And by 1850
                    interest in temperance reform was so strong that it took center stage in state politics. For years
                    missionaries and temperance advocates had signed petitions and sent memorials to the legislature
                    calling for various forms of liquor control at the local level, but this alone would not change
                    society. Willing to step even further beyond their bounds, the missionaries again expanded their
                    role in society. As AHMS missionary Francis McCabe explained, the cause of temperance "has
                    become so important… that no Christian can consistently be silent or idle….
                    The manufacture & use of liquor falter the steps of Education, of all moral reforms, of the
                    Kingdom of Christ." Only the complete removal of alcohol would guarantee reform of the
                    West, and the missionaries and reformers began to push for a statewide prohibition law, following
                    the precedent set by 
                        Maine
                     in 1851. Mindful of the opposition, McCabe proclaimed militantly, "We pray
                    that God will aid us in our efforts to destroy this monstrous evil; at the same time we remember
                    Napoleon's remark that '
                        Providence
                     always seems to favor the heaviest battalions.' We mean to work, as
                    well as to pray."29
            
            True to McCabe's word, the missionaries worked diligently for prohibition as the 1854 fall elections
                    for the General Assembly approached. The Indiana Supreme Court, in Maize v. The State, had recently struck down the local option clause of an 1853 liquor
                    licensing law as unconstitutional. Temperance advocates, looking for a more productive way to
                    enforce prohibition, decided to make a statewide prohibition law their goal. To do so they needed to
                    put as many pro-temperance legislators in Congress as possible, and the 1854 elections figured
                    prominently in their plan. To promote prohibition candidates, temperance advocates of various
                    stripes organized a new coalition party—the Fusionist or People's party—as a
                    counterbalance to the Democratic party, which had taken an official stance 
                  
                     28 Benjamin F. Cole to AHMS, 
                                Danville
                            , August 22, 1854, ibid.; Thomas Griffith to A. E. Lawrence,
                                    
                        Hartford, Blackford County
                     , March 24, 1845, ibid.;
                            George D. Miller to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, Romney, October 14, 1846, ibid.
                  
                  
                     29 Asa Johnson to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, Peru, May 19, 1845, ibid.; Tyler, Freedom's Ferment, 347-48; Francis S. McCabe to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, Peru, December 28, 1852, AHMS Collection.
               
                     against temperance legislation at the state Democratic
                    convention in May, 1854.30
            
            In the ensuing battle, the Presbyterians sided with the Fusionists to elect candidates who would
                    endorse a prohibition law. Missionary Thomas 
                        Spencer
                     rejoiced to see the power of the politician and the power of the church united. William
                    Rogers was confident that "the Lord [would] roll on the cause in some way or other. It
                    [was] destined to succeed." Other missionaries were disheartened at the turn of events.
                    Tracy Oviatt worried that people would adopt "outward reform" for the sake of
                    politics rather than seek a genuine inner transformation. Men who merely changed their outward
                    behavior instead of their natures were not truly reformed.31
            
            Oviatt's fear of mixing politics and religion was well founded; the alliance of religion and politics
                    had almost become a separate issue in Indiana. Many church members resented sermons on temperance or
                    other "political" issues, believing them to be outside the ministerial sphere. If
                    a pastor did "preach politics," he risked property damage, divided congregations,
                    decreased financial support, even loss of his post.32
            
            Ninian Dickey of 
                        Columbus
                    , writing in the aftermath of the passage and repeal of the prohibitory law, revealed
                    the limits that he faced in his staunchly Old-Line Democratic congregation. When an 
                  
                     30
                            Maize v. The State, 4 Indiana Reports 342-51 (1853);
                            Roger H. Van Bolt, "Indiana in Political Transition, 1851-1853," Indiana Magazine of History, XLIX (June, 1953), 157-60; Charles Zimmerman,
                            "The Origin and Rise of the Republican Party in Indiana from 1854 to
                            1860," Indiana Magazine of History, XIII (September, 1917), 213,
                            224-25, 234-47; Roger H. Van Bolt, "The Rise of the Republican Party in Indiana,
                            1855–1856," Indiana Magazine of History, LI
                            (September, 1955), 185-220; Walsh, Centennial History, 172-73. In 1856 the
                            People's party lost the state congressional elections; party members were absorbed primarily
                            by the Republican party. Zimmerman, "Origin and Rise of the Republican
                            Party," 267 68; 
                                Van
                             Bolt, "Rise of the Republican Party," 216-20.
                  
                     31 Thomas 
                                Spencer
                             to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, Laurel, n.d., AHMS Collection. The contents indicate that it was
                            written immediately prior to the passage of the statewide prohibition law in Indiana.
                            William H. Rogers to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, 
                                Noblesville
                            , July 1, 1854, ibid.; Tracy M. Oviatt to 
                                Milton
                             Badger, 
                                Greencastle
                            , August 18, 1854, ibid.
                  
                  
                            
                        32 Alexander Lemon to 
                                    Milton
                                 Badger, Gilead, January 6, 1848, ibid.; Andrew Loose to 
                                    Milton
                                 Badger, 
                           Marion, Grant County
                        , November 1, 1855, ibid.; Moses H. Wilder to Absalom Peters, 
                           Bath, Franklin county
                        ,
                                October 30, 1837, ibid.; Philip S. Cleland to 
                                    Milton
                                 Badger, Greenwood, January 4, 1842, ibid.; Andrew Loose
                                to 
                                    Milton
                                 Badger, 
                                    Somerset
                                , September 19, 1850, ibid.; Andrew Loose to 
                                    Milton
                                 Badger, Winchester, February 12, 1851, ibid.
                     
                            The missionaries had particular problems when their congregations contained people who
                                liked to drink. Three different missionaries encountered opposition to temperance at the
                                church in 
                                    Madison
                                . Most of the congregation were Scots, and many influential leaders drank.
                                In 1847 Enoch Martin took disciplinary action against the drinkers, splitting the
                                church. He also made signing an abstention pledge a requisite for church membership, but
                                this did not solve the problem. Enoch R. Martin to 
                                    Milton
                                 Badger, 
                                    Madison
                                , September 29, 1847, ibid.; Albert A. Vance to 
                                    Milton
                                 Badger, 
                                    Madison
                                , March 1, 1850, ibid.; Daniel A. Bassett to 
                                    Milton
                                 Badger, N. Madison, January 15, 1855, ibid. A church at
                                New Corydon also experimented with an abstention pledge as a condition of church
                                membership. John H. Ross to 
                                    Milton
                                 Badger, Bluffton, March 13, 1848, ibid.
                     
                        
               
                     elder in Dickey's church decided to run for public office, he
                    became so "sensitive" to political issues "that he could not endure even
                    allusion in the pulpit to slavery or intemperance, & scarcely… to any form of sin
                    that was popular with his party." Thus, concluded Dickey, "I did not preach party
                        politics."33
            
            The major 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers fueled the debate. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Indiana State Sentinel represented the Old-Line Democrats, and the weekly 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Indiana State Journal and the daily Journal represented the
                    views of Fusionists, Republicans, Whigs, and anyone else opposed to the Old-Line Democrats. As
                    befitted its Democratic position, the Sentinel opposed ministers who involved
                    themselves in politics and moral legislation. Indeed, argued the editors of the Sentinel, one of the tenets of the "Democratic Faith" was the rejection
                    of "sumptuary laws" that "curtailed personal liberty."34
            
            The Indiana State Journal, meanwhile, upheld the right of ministers to speak out on
                    political issues despite the Democrats' cries of "political clergy" and
                    "union of church and state." After all, if anyone was qualified to judge the
                    morality of an issue, it was a minister. The editors concluded, "It is all a bugbear to
                    prate about the danger of clerical influence in politics in a free Government where no form of
                    religion has the support and sanction of the civil power."35
            
            Despite the Journal's dismissal of the church-state issue in Indiana, the fear of
                    "clerical influence" was not a "bugbear." The issue raised
                    several legitimate questions: could the government legislate issues of morality, should the church
                    unite with the government in such an effort, and who should define what is or is not moral? From the
                    beginning of the temperance movement, many Westerners resisted the attempts of outsiders to regulate
                    their drinking habits. When temperance was still a local issue they directed their anger at the
                    missionaries, who represented the Presbyterian Church's efforts to impose eastern standards on
                    western society. When temperance burgeoned into a state issue, the opposition shifted its focus to
                    the more general question of church and state but retained a healthy suspicion of easterners, seen
                    in an article about "Yankee Blue-Law Lecturers" printed in the Sentinel. Upset by reformers who felt compelled to meddle in the affairs of Indiana, local
                    residents resented those who still thought of their state as a cultural backwater.36
            
            
               
                  33 Ninian S. Dickey to 
                            Milton
                         Badger, 
                            Columbus
                        , December 17, 1856, ibid.
               
               
                  34
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Indiana State Sentinel, July 6, August 5, 1854. The Indiana State
                            Journal had several different names and was issued in various editions, sometimes with
                        different names, throughout its history. John W. Miller, Indiana Newspaper
                            Bibliography: Historical Accounts of All Indiana Newspapers Published from 1804 to 1980 and
                            Locational Information for All Available Copies, Both Original and Microfilm (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1982), 273-76.
               
                  35
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Indiana State Journal (weekly), April 22, April 29, 1854.
               
                  36
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Indiana State Sentinel, July 17, 1854. This was reprinted from the New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Ledger, another pro-Democratic paper in Indiana.
            
            
            Despite the opposition's efforts, the Fusionist party swept the general elections in the fall of 1854
                    and passed a prohibition law in February, 1855, which with a few exceptions "prohibit[ed]
                    the manufacture and sale of spiritous and intoxicating liquor" and contained a
                    "search and seizure" clause to root out suspected offenders. The law granted the
                    government leeway to impinge on individuals, but the missionaries and temperance advocates were
                    willing to allow the government such power if it would bring about a change in society. In a poll of
                    the press conducted by the Journal concerning the prohibitory law, twenty-six of
                    the thirty four newspapers that responded supported the new law; only eight opposed it.37
            
            With the attainment of the prohibition law the missionaries felt they had erected one pillar in the
                    foundation of their new society. Optimism ran high as they wrote the society about their recent
                    success. John Fairchild gave his assessment, "Upon the whole I think Indiana has entered
                    upon a brighter era of her history—has begun a career of reform & of improvement
                    which will give the great cause of truth & Righteousness a higher vantage ground than it has
                    ever befor occupied."38
            
            Not all of Indiana, however, was happy with the law. In 
                        Dubois County
                     the German citizens were so upset with the governor and their senator, both of whom
                    voted for the law, that they burned the two in effigy. The severity of the search and seizure clause
                    angered other citizens and was the main reason that the eight papers in the Journal's poll opposed the prohibition law. Senator Andrew McCleary from 
                        Franklin county
                     wrote an open letter to his constituents explaining why he voted against the
                    prohibition law. He felt that a prohibitory law crossed the fine line between legislation that
                    upheld the public good and legislation that infringed upon individual rights. Apparently many of his
                    constituents agreed with him because at a Democratic citizens' meeting they passed a series of
                    resolutions that condemned the liquor law as an abrogation of inherent rights. Even some
                    missionaries sensed the discontent of the people. Benjamin Cole noted that in 
                        Danville
                    , where "the peculiar notions of the Anti Missionary Baptists pervade this
                    whole community," many people, including preachers, saw the law "as an
                    infringement of [their] liberties."39
            
            
               
                  37 Indiana, State Laws (1855), 209-23; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal (daily), February 21, 28, March 2, 1855; Zimmerman, "Origin
                        and Rise of the Republican Party," 244-45; Walsh, Centennial History,
                        173. Of the twenty-six papers that supported prohibition, three were Whig, one was Free-Soil,
                        one was Know-Nothing, and the rest, except for four papers whose party affiliation could not be
                        determined, either began as Whig papers and turned Republican or were established as Republican
                        papers, usually in 1854. All eight papers that opposed the prohibitory law were Democratic
                        papers. Miller, Indiana Newspaper Bibliography, passim.
               
               
                  38 John Fairchild to 
                            Milton
                         Badger, 
                            Franklin
                        , March 1, 1855, AHMS Collection.
               
                  39
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal (daily), March 20, February 21, March 2, 13, 1855; 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Indiana State Sentinel, March 5, 1855; Benjamin F. Cole to AHMS, 
                            Danville
                        , November 14, 1855, AHMS Collection.
            
            
            The people did not have long to wait, however, before the Indiana Supreme Court declared the law
                    unconstitutional a few months after it was passed. In Beebe v. The
                        State, the court argued that the Bill of Rights of Indiana's constitution guaranteed
                    certain inalienable rights: life, liberty, and the right to own, manufacture, buy, and sell
                    property, including alcohol. Therefore, the prohibition on the sale and use of alcohol was
                    unconstitutional. Judge Samuel E. Perkins, who wrote the majority decision, argued that legislating
                    for the public good could become oppressive. Rights secured to the citizen in the state constitution
                    must be protected, and curbing "the legislative power of the state" by striking
                    down the offending law was necessary to shield "the minority from the oppression of the
                        majority."40
            
            The court did not rule on the propriety of liquor legislation in general, although individual judges
                    addressed the issue in their written opinions. Perkins questioned the validity of prohibitory laws,
                    but two dissenting judges upheld the right of the state to enact moral legislation. William Z.
                    Stuart argued that because some people could not or would not control their behavior, occasions
                    arose when it was necessary to legislate for the public good on "evils which, at a
                    superficial glance, would seem to belong more appropriately to the department of private
                    morals." Samuel B. Gookins, arguing in a similar vein, rejected the contention that
                    temperance legislation impinged on citizens' inalienable rights. He believed that drunkenness was an
                    "evil" and that the liquor trade resulted in "an undesirable class of
                    persons" who must be stopped for the public good. Moreover, he saw the inalienable rights
                    argument as a favorite of "communists, antirenters, and other outlaws,"
                    diminishing its validity in his eyes.41 Clearly, even within the state Supreme
                    Court the issues of the right to legislate morality and the role of the church in the matter had not
                    been resolved.
            The court's decision stunned the Presbyterians. The brief experiment with direct regulation to usher
                    in the Hoosier Zion had come to an abrupt end. The missionaries thought they saw the immediate
                    decline of society. William Rogers wrote that "drunkenness was a daily sight" in 
                        Salem
                    . Andrew Loose lamented that religion had become a mere "political
                    engine," "lend[ing] aid to the cause of human rights and liberty." John
                    Soule deplored the influx of Irish railroad workers who drank, swore, and generally caused trouble.
                    The situation seemed bad. Yet Soule realized that trying to create a new society required more than
                    human effort. Intemperance, "like all other prayers which legislation cannot or will not
                    stay,… will have its 
                  
                     40 Kettleborough, Constitution Making, I, 295; Beebe v. The State, 6 Indiana Reports 511, 518-21
                            (1855).
                  
                     41
                            Beebe v. The State, 6 Indiana Reports 521, 537, 542, 548
                            (1855).
               
                     course and in time disappear."42
                    Religion used as a political tool did not change society.
            The missionaries' concession that legislation could not stop intemperance highlighted their belief
                    that their first goal was to bring about true religious change in their mission fields. They
                    believed, however, that their religious goals depended on control of social norms, hence their
                    commitment to temperance. Westerners, on the other hand, jealously guarded their autonomy and their
                    own religious traditions and often interpreted temperance reform as an alliance of church and state.
                    For both sides religion, politics, and cultural values merged in the temperance issue. The
                    missionaries and Indiana residents struggled, both over the relationship between religion and
                    politics in society and over what constituted appropriate culture. With the repeal of statewide
                    prohibition in 1855 Indiana residents won a small victory, but the battle over temperance and
                    control of the forces of religion, politics, and culture was only beginning.
            
               
                  42 William H. Rogers to 
                            Milton
                         Badger, 
                            Salem
                        , April 12, 1856, AHMS Collection; Andrew Loose to 
                            Milton
                         Badger, Winchester, September 5, 1856, ibid.; John B. L. Soule to 
                            Milton
                         Badger, 
                            Plymouth
                        , October 6, 1856, ibid.
               
            
         
         
         
            The Struggle for the Soul of Frontier Baptists: The Anti-Mission Controversy in the Lower
                        Wabash Valley
            
            Randy K. Mills∗
            
            With the exception of the slavery issue, the anti-mission controversy in the early part of the
                    nineteenth century divided American Baptists like no other question in the denomination's
                        history.1 In the Old Northwest, especially in the 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana regions of the lower Wabash valley, the struggle
                    caused considerable damage, splitting not only churches but also communities and families. The fight
                    among frontier Baptists, which seemed to concern doctrinal questions, really involved an array of
                    political, economic, regional, and cultural considerations. These problems also represented many
                    points of social cleavage found in the nation.2 To understand better the bitter
                    feud among Baptists in the early nineteenth century, several threads of conflict that have been
                    present since the colonial era should be examined.
            All Baptist bodies have historically held to certain principles that set them apart from other
                    Protestant groups. They believe, for example, in baptism of adults only, total immersion as the only
                    proper mode of baptism, and congregational autonomy. Despite the similarities among Baptists, many
                    issues have long created divisions. Over time these differences have often led Baptist congregations
                    to adopt more specific names to differentiate their particular group from other Baptist bodies.
                    Baptists trekking from the New 
                        England
                     and Middle Atlantic colonies into 
                        Virginia
                     and the Carolinas labeled themselves either Separate or Regular Baptists. Separate
                    Baptists of the South stood firmly against written or stated creeds of faith and remained highly
                        revivalistic.3 Because the Separates did not emphasize creeds, Man
                    believers, who were called General or Free 
                  
                     ∗ Randy K. Mills is associate professor of history, 
                                Oakland City
                             University, 
                                Oakland City
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 Leon McBeth, a leading historian of the Baptist denomination, has
                            observed that the anti-mission movement created the first major doctrinal controversy for
                            the Baptists. See Leon McBeth, The Baptist Heritage (
                                Nashville
                            , Tenn., 1987), 377.
                  
                     2 In his essay on Abraham Lincoln's religious surroundings, John F.
                            Cady outlines the political and economic dimensions of the anti-mission struggle in the Old
                            Northwest. See John F. Cady, "The Religious Environment of Lincoln's
                            Youth," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXVII (March, 1941), 16-30.
                            For an account that places the anti-mission episode in a national context, see Byron Cecil
                            Lambert, The Rise of the Anti-Mission Baptists: Sources and Leaders,
                                1800–1840 (
                                New York
                            , 1980).
                  
                     3 McBeth, The Baptist Heritage, 200-83.
               
                     Will Baptists, found shelter in Separate congregations. These
                    free will professors contended that God made salvation available to all who believed in Jesus Christ
                    as their savior. Contrary to most Baptists, Free Will Baptists argued further that because all
                    persons possessed free will, they could choose or not choose salvation. They also held that someone,
                    after their first acknowledgment and acceptance of Christ, could once again fall into sin and lose
                    salvation. Because the philosophical points of free-will theology were developed by the Dutch
                    theologian Jacob Arminius (1560–1609), believers in free will were called Arminians. Most
                    Baptists, however, followed the tenets of John Calvin (1509–1564), believing that God
                    selected a special few to be saved.4 The Baptist and other Protestant groups who
                    subscribed to Calvinist theology were often referred to as Calvinists. They also believed that the
                    elect could not fall from grace. Regular Baptists in the South, most of whom used the Calvinistic 
                        Philadelphia
                     Confession of Faith, typically looked down on the Separate bodies, whom they perceived
                    as too liberal in their acceptance of members, especially those members who believed in the doctrine
                    of free will.5 Robert Semple, a Regular Baptist historian from 
                        Virginia
                    , contended in 1810 that the "Separates were not sufficiently explicit in their
                    principles, having never published or sanctioned any confession of faith; and that they kept within
                    their communion many who were professed Arminians…."6 Yet
                    because of the powerful influence of frontier revivals in the 1780s, and also perhaps because of the
                    necessity for cooperation on the frontier, a strong cry arose in 
                        Virginia
                     toward the end of the eighteenth century for these Baptist groups to unite. This union,
                    which occurred in 1787, led Separate and Regular Baptists to declare themselves United Baptists.
                    Under the terms of this concord, United Baptists were to allow for differences in doctrinal beliefs
                    on such issues as salvation and election.
            In 
                        Kentucky
                     the denomination also struggled with tensions between Regular and Separate groups. As
                    in 
                        Virginia
                    , the Calvinist churches outnumbered others. What Arminianism did exist could be found
                    among some Separate Baptist congregations, although most Separate churches were Calvinist. After a
                    great revival swept through 
                        Kentucky
                    , the two Baptist churches came together in 1801. Resembling the 
                        Virginia
                     case, the union represented compromise between 
                  
                     4 The controversy over election dates as far back as Saint Augustine
                            (354–430), who formulated a strict doctrine of predestination. Later Protestant
                            leaders such as Luther and Calvin reformulated the doctrine, using Augustinian theology as
                            their base.
                  
                     5 A few congregations who called themselves General Baptists also
                            appeared in early 
                                Virginia
                             and the Carolinas. They were founded by General Baptists from 
                                England
                            , but their influence slowly diminished from heavy pressure by the more numerous
                            Calvinist Baptist groups.
                  
                     6 Robert B. Semple, History of the Baptists in 
                                    Virginia
                                
                      (1810; reprint, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Tenn., 1976), 100.
               
                     the more organized, Calvinist Regulars and the revivalist,
                    nonconformist Separates. The ninth article of the 1801 Articles of Faith—"that
                    the preaching Christ tasted death for every man shall be no bar to
                    communion"—clearly signaled that Baptist congregations were more tolerant in
                    matters of doctrine.
            By the early 1800s a few Baptist churches had been established north of the Ohio
                    River in the territory gained after the American Revolution. These young churches
                    operated under the compromise forged earlier in 
                        Kentucky
                     and often called themselves United Baptists or made reference to the 
                        Kentucky
                     accord in their church constitutions. Despite the presence of Baptists and numerous
                    other denominations, religious leaders in the East considered the region to be largely unchurched
                    and therefore ripe for mission work. The missionary impulse that drove eastern Baptists into the
                    western regions was loosely organized in 1814 in the Baptist Triennial Convention, which created a
                    structure for missionary efforts. In 1817 the convention officially launched its home missions
                    program. A key worker in this endeavor was John Mason Peck, a young pastor from 
                        Connecticut
                    . At first Peck hoped to travel as a missionary to 
                        India
                     or some other foreign land. Writing in his diary in 1813, he lamented, "how
                    many thousands of poor benighted heathen there are who worshipped the idol juggernaut….
                    Oh how I wish… that I might be able to bear the gospel to some distant pagan
                        land!"7 He was asked, however, in 1817 to serve in the interior of
                    America. In his diary Peck described his feelings about his first assignment. "The long
                    agony is over. The Board have accepted Mr. Welch and myself as missionaries to the 
                        Missouri
                     Territory…. Oh Lord may I live and die in the cause!"8 He quickly perceived that the western frontier, especially the 
                        Ohio
                     and Mississippi river valleys, were ripe for missions. "A
                    large part of the 
                        United States
                    ," he reported, is "involved in darkness…. there is an
                    abundant field there for missionary work."9 Another time he wrote back
                    east to plead for more help with the western efforts: "you MUST devote yourself to the
                    cause in the West—NOW is the crisis—tomorrow will be too late!"10 Other Baptist ministers also labored in this new field.
            In southwestern Indiana, Isaac McCoy spread the Baptist version of the gospel. Coming from 
                        Kentucky
                    , McCoy also operated under the more tolerant united creed. In 1809 he received a call
                    to pastor 
                  
                     7 Quoted in Rufus Babcock, ed., Forty Years of Pioneer
                                Life: Memoirs of John Mason Peck (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1864), 37.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., 49.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 37. While Peck pleaded for more assistance, many Westerners, such
                            as Kentuckian John Taylor, complained that Peck's reports made it seem "as if the
                            whole (western) country was almost a blank as to religion." John Taylor, Thoughts on Missions (
                                Franklin county
                            , Ky., 1820), 9.
                  
                     10 John Mason Peck to Jonathon Going, January 10, 1832, Baptist Life and Thought, 1600–1980: A Source Book, ed. William H.
                            Brackney (Valley Forge, Pa., 1983), 189.
               
                    
                    
                  JOHN MASON PECK (1789-1858)
                  Reproduced from Rufus Babcock, ed., Forty Years of Pioneer Life.
                                Memoirs of John Mason Peck (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1864), opposite page 1.
               
                     Maria Creek Church in 
                        Knox County
                    . Soon Maria Creek, with four other Baptist churches, in what would become the southwest
                    corner of Indiana, formed the first association of Baptists in the state, called the 
                        Wabash
                     District Association. John F. Cady, in his history of Missionary Baptist churches in
                    Indiana, observes that the idea and practice of missions did not at that time loom as a problem for
                    frontier churches in the Northwest Territory. He pointed out that "a number of Baptist
                    bodies in Indiana voted to purchase copies of the minutes of the first two sessions of the Triennial
                    Convention and a few of them explicitly approved the case."11 The
                    Indiana Baptist leader Jesse Holman, in a letter to a Baptist association in 1818, also showed great
                    support for the home mission effort, noting that "Bible and Missionary societies have
                    extended the written preached gospel to every quarter of the Globe, with a zeal and sweep unexampled
                    in any age of the World since the days of the Apostles…. Oh may its beams enlighten the
                    darkest recesses of Indiana."12 In the 1817 minutes of the 
                        Wabash
                     District Association, a letter appears, written and signed by Elder Alexander Devin and
                    Isaac McCoy, which reiterated the warm support for missions in southwest Indiana. "Numerous
                    missionaries are proclaiming the way of life and salvation through a crucified and risen
                    Jesus… and the Lord is blessing the work preached."13 Events
                    were conspiring, however, to create a powerful anti-mission spirit that would rip the Baptists apart
                    throughout the country.
            Part of the problem for the mission effort in the lower Wabash valley concerned
                    the view many white settlers held towards Indians in the region. Cady notes that the
                    "inability of the majority of frontier Baptists to respond to the ethical challenge of
                    McCoy on the friendly regard for the Indians operated to intensify their hostility to the missionary
                    cause and to make them seek other arguments against it."14 William
                    Cockrum also offers a number of examples in his Pioneer History of Indiana of
                    early white settlers in southwestern Indiana killing Native Americans without remorse.15 One exception, however, to this resentment toward the Indians could be found in the
                    Maria Creek Church.16 This congregation, and the Union Association 
                  
                     11 John F. Cady, The Origin and Development of the
                                Missionary Baptist Church in Indiana (Berne, Ind., 1942), 38. Cady's book is
                            essential in helping scholars understand the anti-mission conflict in Indiana.
                  
                     12 Jesse L. Holman to Laughtery Association of Baptists, 1818, Jesse
                            Lynch Holman Correspondence (
                                Hamilton
                             Library, 
                                Franklin
                             College, 
                                Franklin
                            , Indiana).
                  
                     13 Minutes of the 
                                Wabash
                             District Association, October, 1817, Samuel Colgate Historical Collection
                            (American Baptist-Samuel Colgate Historical Library, 
                        Rochester, New
                            York
                     ).
                  
                     14 Cady, The Origin and Development of the Missionary
                                Baptist Church, 40.
                  
                     15 William M. Cockrum, Pioneer History of Indiana (
                                Oakland City
                            , Ind., 1907), 105-29, 197-236.
                  
                     16 One of the principal families in the Maria Creek Church, the
                            Polkes, were captured earlier in 
                                Kentucky
                             by Indians and were held prisoners for some time. William Polke later worked
                            with McCoy among the Miami Indians in Indiana. Elder McCoy's wife, Christina, a sister to
                            the Polke brothers, had also lived in Indian captivity.
               
                     that the Maria Creek Church later joined, continued long after
                    to support the mission effort. The church especially supported McCoy, their former pastor, who
                    worked among the Indians both in Indiana and later in the 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Kansas
                     territories. In his later career, McCoy continued work for the Indians in
                            
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , and died while raising money for his 
                        Kansas
                     mission.
            Another factor working against missions involved the anti-eastern sentiment found in the Upper South
                    and Old Northwest. Nathan Hatch argues that it was the eastern inception of the mission movement and
                    its somewhat hidden agenda that enraged Westerners. Speaking of the first organizational meeting of
                    this movement at 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1814, Hatch describes other projects besides mission work that the eastern Baptists
                    had in mind. "They used the occasion as a splendid opportunity to centralize the amorphous
                    collection of churches and associations variously identified as General Baptist, Regular Baptist,
                    Separate Baptist, Particular Baptist, or Freewill Baptist."17 Hatch
                    points out that the primary leaders of this movement were urbanites from 
                  Boston, Philadelphia,
                            Baltimore
               , and 
                        Charleston
                    . "Seventeen of the thirty-two delegates came from the established, dignified 
                        Philadelphia
                     Association. The principals were men of cosmopolitan outlook—not unlike the
                    delegates to a more famous 
                        Philadelphia
                     convention three decades earlier. They believed in strength through unity of action and
                    envisioned national solutions to national problems."18 Among many
                    frontier Baptists, sectional jealousies, spurred on by the Jacksonian movement, also intensified the
                    anti-mission spirit. Mission societies headquartered in 
                        Boston
                     and 
                        New York
                     led the Kentuckian John Taylor to "smell the New 
                        England
                     Rat" at work in western mission efforts from the beginning.19 Uneducated frontier ministers also feared they would be overshadowed by eastern
                    missionaries. "We don't care about them missionaries that gone amongst them heathen way off
                    yonder," announced one midwestern minister. "We don't want them here….
                    These missionaries will be great, learned men, and the people will go to hear them preach, and we
                    shall all be put down."20 Westerners also sensed that behind the veil
                    of the easterners' concern for their western "brothers and sisters" lay a
                    conceited attitude that perceived uncouthness and immorality among people living on the frontier.
                    Although probably not shared by Peck, it was no doubt the majority opinion in the East. Criticism of
                    western morality issued primarily from New 
                        England
                    , headquarters of the Baptist missionary efforts. One eastern missionary asserted 
                  
                     17 Nathan O. Hatch, The Democratization of American
                                Christianity (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1989), 94-95.
                  
                            18
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     19 Quoted in McBeth, The Baptist Heritage, 376. John
                            Taylor stood with Daniel Parker as one of the primary opponents to missions.
                  
                     20 John Mason Peck quoted in Babcock, Memoirs of John
                                Mason Peck, 108.
               
                     that the "character of the settlers is such as to
                    render it peculiarly important that missionaries should early be sent among them. Indeed, they can
                    hardly be said to have a character."21 Another wrote that the region
                    had been settled "chiefly with immigrants from 
                  Virginia, Kentucky
               , and 
                        Tennessee
                    " and that "the state of morals is generally very low."22 Another article published in the East declared that "the population
                    of the valley of 
                        Mississippi
                     may be set down as half infidel."23 Easterners could not
                    altogether be blamed for their condescending views. Making even a meager living on the frontier was
                    difficult at this early time, and the first settlers were mostly hunters followed by "half
                    hunters—half farmers" whose housing consisted of rude, one-room, dirt-floor
                    cabins. One traveler's description of the people of southern Indiana in 1819 is typical of accounts
                    sent back to the East. Richard Lee Mason wrote, "We passed one of the most miserable huts
                    ever seen—a house built out of slabs without a nail; the pieces merely laid against a log
                    pen such as pigs are commonly kept in, a dirt floor, no chimney…. This small cabin
                    contained a young and interesting female and her two shivering and almost starving children, all of
                    whom were bareheaded and with their feet bare. There was a small bed, one blanket and a few
                        potatoes."24
            
            Mostly illiterate and, as a result of intense isolation, lacking in social graces, these settlers
                    were seen by easterners to be almost as "Heathen" as the Indian population. Men on
                    the frontier often engaged in no-holds-barred contests, where they gouged out eyes and bit off
                    pieces of nose or ear. The liberal use of whiskey remained common for the time, even among ministers
                    and children. One English traveler, observing the wild and lawless environment where settler
                    behavior seemed to differ little from native culture, noted, "It may not be improper to
                    mention 'that the backwoodsmen' as the first emigrants from the eastward of the Allegheny mountains
                    are called, are very similar in their habits and manners to the aborigines, only perhaps more
                    prodigal and more careless of life."25 Another observer, a visiting
                    military official to the 
                        Kentucky
                     frontier, described the cruelty of backwoods fighting. "When two men quarrel
                    they never have an idea of striking, but immediately seize each other, and fall and twist each
                    other's thumbs or fingers into the eye and push it from the socket till it falls on the
                        cheeks."26
            
            
               
                  21 Samuel J. Mills and Daniel Smith quoted in The Panoplist
                            and Missionary Magazine, XI (1815), 179, 183.
               
                  22 "Memoir of Alvan Stone," Journal of the 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Society, III (January, 1911), 89.
               
                  23 "Atheism in New 
                            England
                        ," New-
                                England
                             Magazine, VII (December, 1834), 502.
               
                  24 Richard Lee Mason, Narrative of Richard Lee Mason in the
                            Pioneer West (
                            New York
                        , 1819), 34.
               
                  25 Fortescue Cuming, Sketches of a Tour of the Western
                            Country, quoted in Early Western Travels, ed. Reuben Thwaites (4
                        vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1966), IV, 137.
               
                  26 Daniel Parker quoted in W.E. Connelly and E.M. Coulter, History of 
                                Kentucky
                            
                   (5 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1922), I, 294.
            
            
            
               ISAAC MCCOY (1784-1846)
               Courtesy 
                            Kansas
                         State Historical Society, 
                            Topeka
                        ; reproduced from R. David Edmunds, The Potawatomis: Keepers of the
                            Fire (
                            Norman
                        , Okla., 1978), 142.
            
            
            Another issue that divided western and eastern Baptists concerned money. Churches on the frontier did
                    not want their hard-earned money going east. John Taylor, in his 1819 pamphlet Thoughts
                        on Missions, accused would-be missionaries of only being interested in financial gain. He
                    compared missionaries to horse leeches who sucked the blood from their victims, while Daniel Parker
                    complained that the missionary Luther Rice was paid as high as eight dollars a week besides his
                    travel expenses.27 Such accusations greatly stirred people on the frontier,
                    where money was scarce.28 Westerners blamed politicians in the East for the
                    economic depression that swept the land in 1819. Coupled with this hard feeling was the strong
                    Baptist tendency, particularly from the Separate Baptists, for church autonomy. Denominational
                    boards dominated by easterners threatened individual church freedom. Finally, many anti-mission
                    groups claimed an organized mission concept could not be found in the Bible. "It has
                    neither precept nor example to justify it within the two lids of the Bible,"29 declared Daniel Parker. He elaborated his position in his pamphlet A Public Address to the Baptist Society, published in 1820. "We Baptists profess to
                    believe, and we think upon scriptural authority, that the internal work of the calling and sending
                    out of preachers, is… performed by the Spirit of God on the heart."30 Parker argued that the calling and training of missionaries by a human agency
                    such as the Baptist Board of Foreign Missions (BBFM), rather than by God, was not scriptural and
                    therefore wrong. The problems created by anti-mission groups might not have so profoundly affected
                    the Wabash valley had it not been for Parker.
            Born in 1781 in 
                        Virginia
                    , Daniel Parker grew up in the backwoods of 
                        Georgia
                     "in an uninhabited wilderness," where he roamed the woods
                    "as a hunter nearly as much in the company of Indians as whites."31 He grew up without formal education, becoming a Baptist in 1802 and at the age of
                    twenty-three beginning to preach. About this time he married Patsy Dickerson. Parker was aware of
                    his rusticity when he wrote, "I had until this time, been altogether raised and
                    traditionized to the backwoods, or frontier country, having no learning, and being rough and coarse
                    in my language and manners. I made but a poor appearance as a preacher."32 It was a limitation that put him frequently on the defensive.
            
               
                  27 John Taylor, Thoughts on Missions, 8; Daniel Parker,
                        "A Short History of the Life and Progress of the Editor," The
                            Church Advocate, II (August, 1831), 276.
               
                  28 In southwestern Indiana, legitimate paper currency and coin were so
                        difficult to find that coonskins and whiskey became legal forms of tender. See Joseph P. Elliot,
                            A History of 
                                Evansville
                             and 
                                Vanderburgh County
                            , Indiana (
                            Evansville
                        , Ind., 1897), 112.
               
                  29 Daniel Parker, A Public Address to the Baptist
                        Society (
                            Vincennes
                        , Ind., 1820), 38-39.
               
                  30
                        Ibid., 41.
               
                  31 Parker, "A Short History," 263.
               
                  32
                        Ibid., 270.
            
            
            Parker left 
                        Georgia
                     for 
                        Tennessee
                     in 1803 feeling that "the Lord had work for me to do."33 He stayed until 1817 and spent much of his time organizing churches and arguing with
                    Methodist ministers over free will. Using what he called "my old Jerusalem Blade, which has
                    two edges and cuts every which way," Parker labored "to cut off everything that
                    was aiming to touch the crown on the Redeemer's head, or remove the rights and foundation of the
                    church of God."34 While in 
                        Tennessee
                    , he worked arduously against missions. To Parker the BBFM loomed as the churches'
                    greatest enemies "in human form."35 As a member of the Concord
                    Association, he battled successfully against what he termed the "mission plan."36 By 1817 he had become alarmed by the apparent success of missions in the
                        Wabash valley. Believing he could succeed there as well, he moved his
                    family north and purchased land in 
                  Crawford County,
                            Illinois
               , just west of the
                        Wabash River. Records show that Parker soon owned a mill and other
                    properties and served as a juryman and road supervisor. The census reports that by 1820 eight Parker
                    children were living in the household. In 1822 he was elected as a state senator.37 In his most important political act, he helped stop an attempt to legalize slavery in 
                        Illinois
                    , but he was defeated for reelection to the 
                        Illinois
                     senate in 1826 and to the lower house in 1832. As it turned out, the fight against
                    missions, not politics, remained his primary arena.
            In 
                        Illinois
                     and nearby Indiana, Parker threw his whole effort into the fight against missions.
                    "Until this time," he wrote later, "I had lived in perfect peace with the
                    Baptists, all in love, fellowship, and union; but from that time until now, the greatest enemy I
                    ever had in human shape is the mission spirit or principle… led by men who call
                    themselves Baptists." He now boldly declared that he would "not sacrifice the
                    faith of God's elect."38 While his anti-mission position found numerous
                    followers, some of his other theological notions eventually stirred opposition. This was especially
                    true of his doctrine of "the two seeds." First proposed in a pamphlet in 1826,
                    this idea represented a position far beyond orthodox Calvinism. Parker claimed, "It is
                    evident that there are two seeds, the one of the serpent, and the other of the women." He
                    argued that "the women's seed came from 'Christ and his elect' while, 'the serpent seed'
                    here spoken I believe to be the non-elect."39 No effort of any
                    ministry, declared Parker, 
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 268.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., 272.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., 277.
                  
                     36 Parker quoted in L. C. Rudolph, Hoosier Faiths (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1995), 41.
                  
                     37 Donald F. Tingley, "
                                Illinois
                             Days of Daniel Parker, 
                                Texas
                             Colonizer," Journal of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Historical Society, LI (Winter, 1958), 388-402.
                  
                     38 Parker, "A Short History," 277.
                  
                     39 Daniel Parker, "Views on the Two Seeds; Taken from
                            Genesis, 3rd Chapter and Part of the 15th Verse," A Source Book for
                                Baptist Heritage, ed. Leon McBeth (
                                Nashville
                            , Tenn., 1990), 234-36.
               
                     could change either group. This view represented an extreme
                    position. For all his lack of education and manners, he was apparently a powerful speaker. His main
                    adversary in the mission struggle, John Mason Peck, noted that he was "one of those
                    singular and extraordinary beings whom Divine 
                        Providence
                     permits to arise as a scourge to his church, and as a stumbling block in the way of
                    religious effort." Peck described his antagonist as "without education, uncouth in
                    manner, slovenly in dress, diminutive in person, unprepossessing in appearance, with shriveled
                    features and a small, piercing eye." Yet "few men," he conceded,
                    "have exercised a wider influence on the lower and less educated class of frontier
                    people." Describing Parker's remarkable energy, Peck observed that he possessed "a
                    zeal and enthusiasm bordering on insanity, firmness that amounted to obstinacy, and perseverance
                    that would have done honor to a good cause."40 He had unusual powers of
                    persuasion because he knew "how to lay upon every prejudice of his hearers."41 "Repeatedly have we heard him when his mind seemed to rise above its
                    own powers, and he would discourse for a few moments… with such brilliancy of thought and
                    force and correctness of language, as would astonish men of education and talents."42 Despite his virtues, however, Parker "was not the kind of man who
                    would suffer another to hold a more elevated place in the estimation of Baptists than
                        himself."43
            
            While in 
                        Illinois
                    , Parker soon became prominent in the Lamotte Baptist Church, which belonged to the 
                        Wabash
                     Association. Here, he was as industrious in his anti-mission zeal as Peck was for
                    missions. In his Indiana Baptist History, William T. Stott notes that "as
                    long as Parker was in the [
                        Wabash
                    ] Association there was discord and distrust, for Parker's view represented the most
                    radical predestination."44 In fact, what Parker found at first in the 
                        Wabash
                     Association was a strong missionary spirit led by the Maria Creek Church and its
                    minister Isaac McCoy. This influential church was the mother church for a number of other
                    congregations, including Parker's own Lamotte Church. At first the 
                        Wabash
                     Association did not oppose missions. In 1815, the year after the organization of the
                    Baptist Missionary Union, the association appointed McCoy secretary of the Baptist Board of Foreign
                    Missions (BBFM). The Maria Creek Church minutes show that in September the church agreed
                    "to receive the report of the B.B.F.M. forwarded by said Board to the 
                        Wabash
                     Association 
                  
                     40 Quoted in David Benedict, A General History of the
                                Baptist Denomination in America and Other Parts of the World (
                                New York
                            , 18481, 864-65.
                  
                     41 Quoted in Cady, The Origin and Development of the
                                Missionary Baptist Church, 41.
                  
                     42 Quoted in Benedict. A General History, 123.
                  
                     43 Quoted in Edward P. Brand, 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 Baptists: A History (
                                Springfield
                            , Ill., 1930), 68.
                  
                     44 William T. Stott, Indiana Baptist History (
                                Franklin
                            , Ind., 1908), 62.
               
                     for use of the churches."45 McCoy
                    continued as secretary and received $6.75 to pay for his corresponding expenses. In 1817
                    the association responded to a circular letter from the mission board by noting that "this
                    Association has received with much pleasure the above mentioned circular, and is highly pleased with
                    the information derived therefrom."46 Parker's influence, however,
                    emerged as soon as he settled in the region and took the Lamotte pulpit and other pulpits.47 One of the churches he pastored, Little Vine, fired the first shot in 1818 in
                    what would become a war among Baptists on the frontier.48 It took the form of a
                    query to the 
                        Wabash
                     Association. "Are the principles and practices of the B.B.F.M. in its present
                    operations justifiable and agreeable to gospel order?"49 Agreeing to
                    postpone any decision until the next year, the association finally replied that "they are
                    not agreeable to the Gospel order."50 In 1819 the association withdrew
                    fellowship from the mission board. Parker, however, was still not satisfied because some churches
                    continued to correspond with the board or failed to exclude members who supported the mission idea.
                    The Lamotte Church then asked the 
                        Wabash
                     Association what was to be done with churches that let members belong to missionary
                    societies.
            In response to the Lamotte inquiry, the association, in the united Baptist spirit forged in 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    , recommended that "the churches bear one another's burdens and so fulfill the
                    law of Christ."51 Parker, however, was not about to let the matter go.
                    He declared, "As God never intends to make peace with his enemies, neither does Daniel
                    Parker intend to make peace with his enemies by compromising the truth of God's word."52 He would "kill the Missionaries or they should kill
                        him."53 The Maria Creek Church fought back in 1820 by asking the
                    association "to point out to us the wickedness of the Baptist Board of Missions and it will
                    be our happiness to 
                  
                     45 Minutes of the Maria Creek Church, September 23, 1815, Indiana
                            History Collection (
                                Vincennes
                             University Library, 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana).
                  
                     46 Minutes of the 
                                Wabash
                             District Association, October, 1817, Samuel Colgate Historical Collection.
                  
                     47 Because of the shortage of pastors on the frontier, Baptist
                            ministers often held more than one pulpit. In such circumstances, a minister would preach
                            perhaps only once or twice a month at a church, depending on the number of churches with
                            which he worked.
                  
                     48 Most histories maintain that the Lamotte Church sent the original
                            query, but Ben F. Keith argues that it was Little Vine, another church Parker pastored, that
                            sent the first Query. See Ben F. Keith, History of Maria Creek Church (
                                Vincennes
                            , Ind., 1881), 31-35.
                  
                     49 Quoted in Keith. History of the Maria Creek
                            Church. 31-32.
                  
                     50 Minutes of the 
                                Wabash
                             District Association, October, 1819, Samuel Colgate Historical Collection.
                  
                            51
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     52 Parker, "A Short History," 280.
                  
                     53 David Hornaday to "Mr. Editor," in The Baptist Weekly Journal of the Mississippi valley
                      (April
                            4, 1835).
               
                     avoid everything we conceive contrary to the mind and will of
                        Christ."54 The association leaders, apparently recognizing the
                    volatility of the issue, answered the Maria Creek Church, "We hope no use will be made of
                    the decision of the last Association relative to the subject of missions, to the distress of Zion,
                    contrary to the commands of Christ."55 Patoka Church, in nearby 
                        Gibson County
                    , asked what should be done "in cases where principles and practice of the
                    B.B.F.M. are cherished and nourished among us."56 In response the
                    association advised "the churches to cherish brotherly love, and to walk in all the
                    commands of Christ blameless."57 Such answers from the association's
                    leadership affirmed that Baptists were expected to operate under the United Baptist spirit of
                    compromise and were to be tolerant on issues such as missions.
            Parker's immediate reaction to Maria Creek's letter and the association's neutral position was to
                    write his Public Address to the Baptist Society, which outlined his case against
                    missions. The real showdown over the issue, however, took place in June of 1822 at the Patoka
                    Meeting House in northern 
                        Gibson County
                    .58 This particular meeting was one of the most important events in
                    early Indiana Baptist history. Originally called by the 
                        Wabash
                     District Association to allow churches of the body to vote on changes in the
                    constitution, delegates soon moved to consider the missions problem.59 The
                    meeting erupted in a five-hour debate with Peck and Parker taking up most of the time. Peck gave a
                    vivid description of the exchange in a journal entry. "Saturday, 8th June. Reached the
                    association, near 
                        Princeton
                    , Ind., and was affectionately received by Brother William Polke some other brethren,
                    but soon discovered strong prejudices and jealousies on account of my missionary character. No seat
                    was allowed me." On the ninth Peck reported that Parker preached vehemently against
                    missions. After the sermon Peck attempted to discuss the subject with Parker in a rational manner.
                    "In my interview with Brother Parker I alluded to his address about missions, and told him
                    I could cheerfully give him my hand, as a conscientious and well-meaning, though greatly-mistaken
                    brother. He is a most determined opposer of the whole mission system." Peck spoke the
                    following 
                  
                     54 Minutes of the 
                                Wabash
                             District Association, October, 1820, Samuel Colgate Historical Collection.
                  
                            55
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            56
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            57
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     58 The full title of this work was A Public Address to
                                the Baptist Society and Friends of Religion in General, on the Principle of the Baptist
                                Board of Foreign Missions for the 
                                    United States
                                 of America. Parker erroneously believed his work stood as the first of
                            its kind, but other anti-mission arguments had appeared earlier.
                  
                     59 The move to change the constitution involved an attempt by Parker
                            and other anti-mission advocates to exclude more easily mission-oriented churches. See
                            Keith, History of the Maria Creek Church, 60-66.
               
                    
                    
                  TITLE PAGE OF DANIEL PARKER'S
                            PUBLIC ADDRESS
                     
                  
                  Southern Baptist Historical Library and Archives, Shawnee, 
                                Oklahoma
                            .
                day. "In the evening I preached in the court-house at 
                        Princeton
                     on the subject of missions, and spent the night with Brother Devin. My mind quite
                    engaged." As the meeting progressed it became obvious to Peck that a major crisis loomed
                    ahead. "Prejudices have risen up, and some are, I doubt not, influenced by selfish motives.
                    It appears very evident that Parker is determined not to yield, or give up the ground he had
                    assumed. To effect his purpose he has been engaged for some time among a portion of the
                    churches." He soon discovered how stubborn Parker could be. Noting that the 
                        Wabash
                     Association had originally supported mission efforts, Peck described the final
                    exchange.
            
                    Finally the meeting moved to consider charges against a church which supported the missions. This
                        gave full scope for discussion on the propriety of missions endeavor. Mr. Parker opposed them
                        with all the ingenuity in his power, and Mr. Wm. Polke as ably defended them. I then obtained
                        leave to speak, and entered on a detail of facts connected with this subject. The whole
                        discussion lasted about five hours, and excited peculiar interest in the public mind. A large
                        assembly seemed unwilling to stir from the place till the decision was reached. I have never
                        before met with so determined  an opposer to missions in
                        every aspect. But the decision gave me decided victory to the cause of missions, fully
                        sustaining the church which had contributed to their support.60
               
                
            The end result of the Patoka meeting turned out to be only a temporary victory for the idea of
                    missions. The worst was yet to come. Parker now traveled throughout the region to a number of
                    Baptist associations where he violently opposed mission work. Eventually, he admonished churches and
                    associations not to correspond with any Baptist groups that supported missions, which led to the
                    creation of the Union Association in 1824. Made up of churches mostly in 
                  Knox, Daviess, Pike
               , Sullivan, and Vigo counties, this group continued, despite
                    Parker's efforts, to carry on in the old united tradition. Ultimately, Union Association churches
                    and other congregations that supported missions were called Missionary Baptist. Unfortunately,
                    Parker's and other anti-mission leaders' works exacerbated the issue nationwide. Rhetoric often
                    became harsh, with one anti-mission minister declaring, "do not forget the enemy, bear them
                    in mind, the howling destructive wolves, the ravenous dogs, and their filthy and numerous
                        whelps."61 Unaccountably, in a circular letter written in 1825, the
                    Union Association still apparently hoped for peaceful resolution through tolerance and compromise:
                    "let brotherly love continue…. let us be careful to avoid whatever weakens the
                    ties that unite us, and equally careful to do all in our power to keep the unity of the spirit in
                    the bonds of peace."62 Of course "unity of spirit"
                    did not follow. By 1824 Baptists began to splinter throughout the region. Meanwhile, traveling
                    extensively throughout the 
                        Wabash
                    , Little Pigeon, and 
                        Salem
                     associations in southwest Indiana, and other associations in the region, Parker
                    continued to fight all mission efforts.
            One way to understand the struggle over missions in the lower Wabash valley is
                    to examine the minutes of several local churches and associations involved in the clash. In the 1824 
                        Wabash
                     Association minutes, for example, several items reveal aspects of the mission struggle.
            
                    Union Association petitioned by letter and messengers to open a correspondence with us which was
                        refused on account of their having united with Maria Creek Church, which we believe to be in
                        disorder. Agreeably to the direction of the Churches (claiming their right to votes in the last
                        years minutes) Maria Creek Church is published as excluded from this Association for justifying
                        her members in the support of the principles and practice of the Baptist Board of Foreign
                        Missions.
                    Elder Daniel Parker informed the Association that his having knowledge that the Little Flock
                        Church, with Elder Harris, had gone into the Union Association with Maria Creek Church, which he
                        believes was in disorder, as the Churches composing the 
                     
                        60 Quoted in Babcock, Memoirs of John Mason
                                Peck, 173-74.
                     
                        61 A. Keaton quoted in Hosea Holcombe, A History of
                                    the Rise and Progress of the Baptists in 
                                        Alabama
                                    
                         (
                                    Philadelphia
                                , 1840), 38.
                     
                        62 Minutes of the Union Association, September, 1824, Manuscript
                                Division (Indiana State Library, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana).
                  
                        
                        
                            Wabash
                         Association had manifested cause of grief with said Maria Creek Church on the
                        mission subject, and had received no satisfaction, together with the counsel of his brethren, as
                        far as he had opportunity, was the cause of his objecting to Elder Harris preaching his
                        introductory sermon to this Association, believing it to be his duty for the sake of good order,
                        and he now submits the case to the Association to say whether he did right or not. The voice of
                        the Association being taken, say that Elder D. Parker was fully justifiable in what he had
                            done.63
               
                
            The minutes of the Little Pigeon Association also illustrate the concern over the mission problem.
                    John Cady notes that from "1823 to 1828, the problem of the policy to be pursued with
                    regard to missionary benevolence dwarfed all other considerations in the sessions of the Little
                    Pigeon Association."64 Individual church minutes also show how the
                    mission feud affected local congregations. The Maria Creek Church minutes constantly addressed the
                    mission controversy, the issue often taking up several entire pages for each meeting. The April 14,
                    1821, meeting record is a typical example.
            
                    Elder Daniel Parker presented a charge in writing to this church of which the following is a
                        copy: "I am grieved with my Brethren Wm. Polke & Joseph Chambers because I view
                        they have sinned in joining with and supporting of the principles and practice of what is called
                        the Baptist Board of foreign missions which principles and practices I view as departing from
                        the gospel faith and general principles and practice of the Baptist Union." Tho our
                        church did not receive the above mentioned charge Elder D. Parker offered the following charge.
                        "I feel I have cause of grief in consequence of the illegal proceedings of Maria Creek
                        Church in her manner of dealing with me."65
               
                
            Cady also contends that it was because of the intensity of this fight in the local Little Pigeon
                    Church that a young Abraham Lincoln (his father was a strong supporter of Parker) became hostile to
                    organized religion. Lincoln's church, claims Cady, had been too much concerned with the theological
                    bickering stirred by Parker over missions "to be able to contain the inquiring
                    spirit" of the youthful Lincoln.66
            
            Another church whose minutes reveal the division caused by Parker was the 
                        Providence
                     Church in 
                        Gibson County
                    . The August 24 minutes of the church asserted that it would have "no
                    correspondence with the board of foreign missions."67 In 1825 the
                    church struggled with a related problem, the establishment of a new religious 
                  
                     63 Minutes of the 
                                Wabash
                             District Association, October, 1824, Manuscript Division (Indiana State
                            Library).
                  
                     64 Cady, "The Religious Environment of Lincoln's
                            Youth," 25.
                  
                     65 Minutes of the Maria Creek Church, April 14, 1821, Indiana History
                            Collection (
                                Vincennes
                             University Library).
                  
                     66 Cady, "The Religious Environment of Lincoln's
                            Youth," 30.
                  
                     67 Minutes of the 
                                Providence
                             Church, August 24,1824 (Citizens National Bank, Francisco, Indiana). 
                                Providence
                             Church was a member of the 
                                Salem
                             Association. This organization, an offshoot of the old 
                                Wabash
                             District Association, was formed in 1822 and included churches in Gibson,
                            Posey, and 
                                Vanderburgh
                             counties. Because of Parker's work, this group became a Primitive Baptist
                            association by 1830. The 
                                Salem
                             Primitive Baptist Association and many other Primitive Baptist groups
                            eventually distanced themselves from Parker because of the "two seeds"
                            controversy.
               
                     group in the region, the General Baptists. This body had formed
                    in response to the anti-mission feud and offered members of the original Baptist congregations a
                    place to escape the bitter fighting that embroiled United Baptists. Minutes of the 
                        Providence
                     Church are filled with references to this problem. The following minute, dated March
                    25, 1826, is typical of the 
                        Providence
                     Church's response: "Took up the cases of sister Elisabeth Strickland and
                    sister Lucinda Graves and Charlotta Peck. The church say they are no more of us in as much as they
                    withdrew from us and joined a people known as the General Baptist which we think be in
                        disorder."68 Several other churches within the 
                        Salem
                     Association besides 
                        Providence
                     lost members to this new movement as well. The New Hope Church in nearby 
                        Vanderburgh County
                     was especially hit hard by losses to the recently formed Liberty General Baptist
                    Church. The General Baptist movement had sprung up in 
                        Vanderburgh County
                     under the leadership of a former United Baptist minister from 
                        Kentucky
                    , Benoni Stinson.69 Having been at the 1822 meeting in Patoka,
                    Stinson reported that the hyper Calvinist tone of Parker's preaching offended him. "When I
                    got there," said Stinson, "the Calvinistic preached their hard
                    doctrine… and I thought wounded the cause of God."70
                    Stinson, however, still hoped to install the united spirit he had known in 
                        Kentucky
                     in the new 
                        Salem
                     Association. When he was unable to get the united article—"that the
                    preaching Christ tasted death for every man shall be no bar to
                    fellowship"—inserted in the 
                        Salem
                     articles, he started a new congregation in 1823, named Liberty, in 
                        Vanderburgh County
                    , and in 1824, along with three other Baptist churches, formed the Liberty Association
                    of General Baptists. An article of faith that appeared in both the Liberty Church and Liberty
                    Association constitution declared this group's complete acceptance of general atonement, which
                    contrasted with the Calvinist doctrine of limited atonement. After 1824 the General Baptists became
                    a constant thorn in the side of the more Calvinist and anti-mission 
                        Salem
                    , Little Pigeon, and 
                        Wabash
                     associations. Initially somewhat Calvinist in practice (Stinson's group kept the
                    moderately Calvinist article of faith regarding the perseverance of the saints and also practiced
                    closed communion), Stinson's first biographer believed that the founder of the General Baptists was
                    probably seeking to reestablish the United tradition he had known in 
                        Kentucky
                    .71 Because of Parker's work, however, Stinson's 
                  
                     68 Minutes of the 
                                Providence
                             Church, March 25, 1826 (Citizens National Bank).
                  
                     69 William Reavis wrote the first piece on Stinson. See William
                            Reavis, The Life of Benoni Stinson (2 vols., 
                                Oakland City
                            , Indiana, 1876). The next year he began a series of articles, "Life of
                            Benoni Stinson, Together with a Short History of the General Baptist Denomination."
                            The series ran from August 23, 1877, to November 3, 1878, in the General
                                Baptist Herald, volumes 5 to 6, and was published in Boonville, Indiana.
                  
                     70 William Reavis, "Stinson Series," General Baptist Herald, August 2, 1877. At one point this series was lost to
                            scholars until copies of several issues of the Herald were discovered in
                            1994 in the 
                                Oakland City
                             University archives.
                  
                     71
                            Ibid., May 16, 1878.
               
                     band of General Baptists slowly moved away from its Calvinist
                    roots, dropping the perseverance of the saints article by 1845 and practicing open communion in most
                    of its churches by this time as well.72 It is likely, however, that Stinson
                    would never have initiated this movement had it not been for Parker's (and others') hyper-Calvinism.
                    By Stinson's death in 1869, the General Baptists were a dominant force in southwestern Indiana as
                    well as in parts of southeastern 
                        Illinois
                     and western 
                        Kentucky
                    .73
            
            Individual church minutes reveal that the anti-mission struggle split families and communities as
                    well as congregations. The 
                        Providence
                     Church records show that many of the people who abandoned that church for the General
                    Baptists were named Strickland, which occurred while two Strickland men continued as Regular, then
                    Primitive, Baptist ministers. William Reavis, whose parents and family were prominent in the 
                        Providence
                     Church, reported that while his father's people took Parker's position on general
                    atonement and missions, his mother's side espoused strong support for missions and general
                    atonement. Reavis himself would become a General Baptist minister. So intense were the debates in
                    this family over issues stirred by Parker's anti-mission crusade that one Reavis cousin was given
                    the name Daniel Parker Reavis, while Reavis himself named one of his sons after Benoni Stinson, as
                    did two other former members of the 
                        Providence
                     Church. The 
                        Salem
                     Association, to which the 
                        Providence
                     Church belonged, adamantly opposed missions, revivals, and Sunday schools. Reavis noted
                    that arguments about missions became so vehement that often people within the same families and
                    communities quit speaking to one another and forbade family members to converse with "the
                        enemy."74
            
            Parker's anti-mission movement wrought a decisive change in Baptist life in the 
                        Wabash
                     region. An entirely new Baptist movement, the General Baptists sprang up in response to
                    Parker's hyper-Calvinism, which soon spread to 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    . This group had little to do with the more numerous Calvinist Baptist groups in the
                    area. The Union Association of Missionary Baptists also struggled on alone. By 1833 there were
                    twenty-one Baptist associations in Indiana, with a total membership of 11,334. More than half of
                    these 
                  
                     72 Nearby Little Pigeon Baptist Church also labored with the problem
                            of members subscribing to the general atonement doctrine. The 1829 minutes relate that
                            "Br. Wm. Whitenhill [sic] rose and informed the church that he
                            did not hold the Doctrine of Election and pre Destination and wish'd to be no more a member
                            with us on that account. Taken up and laid over until our next meeting." The church
                            membership attempted to "labor" with Whittinghill over the issue but, that
                            process proving unsatisfactory, the church denied "a fellowship with Br. Wm.
                            Whittinghill for denying the doctrines of election & predestination &
                            refusing to obey the voice of the Church." See Minutes of the Little Pigeon Baptist
                            Church, November 7, 1829, February 13, 1830 (
                                Princeton
                             Public Library, 
                                Princeton
                            , Indiana).
                  
                     73 Cady, The Origin and Development of the Missionary
                                Baptist Church, 76-81.
                  
                     74 Reavis, "Stinson Series," August 9, 1877.
               
                     associations came to hold the anti-mission position.
                    Unfortunately, as I. George Blake points out, "without a missionary vision… most
                    of the anti-mission associations have ceased to exist."75 Ultimately,
                    the great majority of anti mission churches took the name Primitive Baptist.76
                    Because of their exclusion of revivals, Sunday schools, and educated clergy, these churches faded
                    into obscurity. In Indiana, Cady observes, "the later history of the Primitive Baptists has
                    been one of almost uninterrupted decline. Some seven or eight of their associations in Indiana have
                    become extinct or practically so. About a dozen of them still carry on, but they number only three
                    to five churches each."77 Nor was the fragmentation of Parker's
                    anti-mission efforts confined to Baptist churches in southwest Indiana and southeast 
                        Illinois
                    . In 
                        Tennessee
                    , where Parker began the fight, it was reported that all "missionary societies
                    were dissolved… and the spirit of death rested upon the whole people."78 Ironically, Parker considered his work in the lower 
                        Wabash
                     region of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     to be his crowning achievement. "But my very soul should thank God, that I
                    succeeded in driving out from among the Baptist in the bounds of the 
                        Wabash
                     District Association, and her correspondence, all the supporters of the corrupting
                    mission principle, Arminian stuff & c."79 Perhaps more battered
                    than he betrayed in his Church Advocate, Parker, just before leaving the
                        Wabash valley in 1830 for 
                        Texas
                    , penned the following verses:
            
                    And saints and angels join in one,
                    In splendour round the throne;
                    To praise the Father and the Son,
                    And Spirit Three in One.
                    My enemies, what do you think,
                    You know may trouble me!
                    But then, Oh! Then, out of your reach
                    I shall forever be.
                    Your worldly religion and its wealth
                    Will then exposed be;
                    While grace will give the saints content
                    In all eternity.80
               
                
            As the American religious historian William Warren Sweet summarizes the results of the anti-mission
                    struggle, the "unevangelical 
                  
                     75 I. George Blake, Finding a Way Through the Wilderness:
                                Tracing Baptist History in Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1983), 29.
                  
                     76 Today a few Primitive Baptist congregations, including 
                                Providence
                             in 
                                Gibson County
                            , still occasionally hold services.
                  
                     77 Cady, The Origin and Development of the Missionary
                                Baptist Church, 55-57.
                  
                     78 Quoted in A. H. Newman, ed., A History of Baptist
                                Churches in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1898), 437-38.
                  
                     79 Parker, "A Short History," 286.
                  
                     80
                            Ibid., 167.
               
                     type of Calvinism which it fostered led to bigotry and
                    intolerance, and its absurdities brought the churches and ministers into disrepute among those who
                    most needed their ministrations and their restraints." Sweet also sees the anti mission
                    spirit as especially hard on education "at the very time when educational foundations
                    needed to be laid." Finally, he points out that "much of the energy which might
                    have been utilized to spread religion among the scattered and rapidly increasing population of a new
                    country was expended in quarrels and resulted in bad feeling and estrangement among those who called
                    themselves Christians."81 In a larger sense, the anti-mission movement
                    probably contributed to the development of American sectionalism, which was made more pronounced by
                    a strong strain of anti intellectualism common on the frontier.82 Tied closely
                    to the great mistrust of missions was a powerful antipathy on the part of westerners toward
                    education. While eastern Baptists who came west, like John Mason Peck, became strong advocates for
                    an educated clergy, most Westerners did not see a need for a minister to have much formal schooling.
                    H. Leon McBeth concludes, "Lingering opposition to denominational programs, continuing
                    suspicion of theological education, and rigid Biblicism represent the legacy of the anti-mission
                    movement. Baptists in areas where antimissionism flourished have inherited a pronounced
                    susceptibility to other ultra-conservative movements."83
            
            Peck's plan for missions, however, was not a complete failure. By 1832 the American Baptist Home
                    Mission Society sponsored fifty missions in ten states, two territories, and 
                        Canada
                    . Ten years later the society's endeavor had brought almost eleven thousand converts on
                    the frontier and established four hundred churches.84 In 1833 the General
                    Association of Baptists in the State of Indiana formed at 
                        Shelbyville
                    . The association represented twenty churches in fifteen counties mostly around the 
                        Indianapolis
                     area. This group, which was deeply committed to missions, stated in a circular letter
                    its hope to commence "a plan for uniting the energies of Baptists of Indiana in support of
                    the Gospel of Christ… [in order to] preach the Gospel to every creature."85 In southwest Indiana, however, only the small and courageous Union
                    Association moved forward in the spirit of the United Baptists in its missionary endeavors. The
                    continued work of this lonely but brave group helped carry the flame of Baptist evangelism to future
                    generations.
            
               
                  81 William Warren Sweet, Religion on the American
                        Frontier (
                            New York
                        , 1964), 76.
               
                  82 Richard Hofstadter, Anti-intellectualism in American
                        Life (
                            New York
                        , 1963), 104-105.
               
                  83 McBeth, The Baptist Heritage, 377.
               
                  84
                        Ibid., 370.
               
                  85 Minutes of the General Association of Baptists in the State of Indiana,
                        April 26, 1833, Manuscript Division (Indiana State Library).
            
         
         
         
            The Boundaries of Authorship: Region and Race in the Short Stories of Maurice Thompson
            Stephen P. Rice∗
            
            In the foreword to his Stories of the Cherokee Hills, published in 1898, Maurice
                    Thompson informed his readers that the six "color-line" sketches collected in the
                    volume were actually written two decades earlier, near the beginning of his writing career. At the
                    time a relatively untried author from the South, recently settled in Indiana and eager to commence a
                    literary career, Thompson submitted his stories of "slavery, war, emancipation, and
                    reconstruction" in the 
                        Georgia
                     hill country to editors of northern magazines, who rejected them outright.1 "Fiction in any way connected with the recent war in the
                    South," he recalled as the typical response of the early 1870s, could not fail to
                    "engender ill feelings and do injury to both writer and publisher."2 Indeed, interest in regional or "local" color stories among readers of
                    popular fiction seems not to have extended much to the South until the following decade, when
                    stories of southern local byways began to appear with increased regularity in popular magazines such
                    as Harper's Monthly, the Atlantic Monthly, and especially the
                        Century Magazine, and when books such as Joel Chandler Harris's Uncle Remus: His Songs and His Sayings (1881), Mark Twain's The Adventures of
                        Huckleberry Finn (1884), and Thomas Nelson Page's In Ole 
                            Virginia
                        
                (1887) were published and embraced by a wide readership. By the mid-1880s
                    Thompson recognized the new acceptability of southern material, and after substantial revision, he
                    submitted one of his "Cherokee Hills" stories to Century
                    Magazine. It was immediately accepted and published in 1885. Four of the remaining five 
                        Georgia
                     stories followed in that magazine over the next several years, while the fifth appeared
                    in Harper's Monthly in 1895. Three years later the 
                        Boston
                     publisher Houghton, Mifflin, and Company published Stories of the Cherokee
                        Hills.
            
            Thompson's experience with the only other collection of short stories he published was considerably
                    different. The nine sketches of 
                  
                     ∗ Stephen P. Rice is assistant professor of American
                            studies, Ramapo College, Mahwah, 
                                New Jersey
                            .
                  
                     1 Maurice Thompson, "Color-Line Jocundities," Stories of the Cherokee Hills (
                                Boston
                            , 1898), 5. This article could not have been written without the bibliography of
                            Thompson's work provided in Dorothy Ritter Russo and Thelma Lois Sullivan, Bibliographic Studies of Seven Authors of 
                                    Crawfordsville
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1952).
                  
                     2 Quoted in ibid.
                  
               
                     rural Indiana life published as Hoosier
                    Mosaics in 1875 were written about the same time as the "Cherokee Hills"
                    stories but contained none of the material on race and the South. With the enormous popularity of
                    such western regional works as Bret Harte's The Luck of the Roaring Camp and Other
                        Sketches (1870) and Edward Eggleston's The Hoosier Schoolmaster (1871),
                    would-be chroniclers of picturesque western folk had a substantial reading public already convened
                    by the early 1870s. In this climate, the 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune accepted and published several of Thompson's Indiana stories soon after
                    they were written. Hopeful that a first book would come of his early success, Thompson consulted his
                    friend, the poet Paul Hayne, about possible publishers. On Hayne's advice Thompson submitted his
                    collection of Indiana stories to Hayne's 
                        New York
                     publisher, E. J. Hale & Son, who agreed to publish them as a book. When Hoosier Mosaics appeared in 1875 it received little national attention, but it
                    made Thompson an immediate celebrity in his home state of Indiana.
            Maurice Thompson's decision to write regional fiction at the beginning of his career as a writer was
                    not unusual. Nor was his success in getting his Indiana stories published so quickly. For aspiring
                    authors in the second half of the nineteenth century, stories about local customs and characters
                    that attempted to capture the peculiarities of local speech were most likely to be accepted for
                    publication. Indeed, Richard Brodhead has recently argued that the regional form "served as
                    the principal place of literary access in America in the postbellum decades."3 In his regional stories, Thompson pursued themes that were highly personal. An Indiana
                    writer who frequently believed that eastern editors took his work less seriously because of his
                    regional affiliation, Thompson used the regional form to challenge the boundary that defined his
                    position in American letters as peripheral. At the same time, Thompson used the regional form to
                    mark the critical limit that he believed distinguished high art from other literary efforts. For
                    Thompson, then, regional fiction provided an opportunity to explore the boundaries of authorship
                    faced by a writer determined to create an enduring body of work while remaining in the West.
            While Maurice Thompson is all but forgotten today, he was a noteworthy figure in late
                    nineteenth-century American literary culture. Before his death in 1901 he published more than twenty
                    books, some with the country's leading publishers. He was well known not only for his novels, short
                    fiction, poetry, and essays but also as a naturalist and a popularizer of archery as a sport. His
                    best-known novel, the historical romance Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
                (1900), sold several hundred thousand copies and remained in print for many
                    years. His 
                  
                     3 Richard H. Brohead, Cultures of Letters: Scenes of
                                Reading and Writing in Nineteenth-Century America (
                                Chicago
                            , 1993), 116.
               
                    
                    
                  COVER OF THOMPSON'S FIRST BOOK, HOOSIER MOSAICS
                      (1875)
                  Yale Collection of American Literature, Beinecke Rare Book and Manuscript
                            Library, Yale University, 
                        New Haven. Connecticut
                     .
                poetry, fiction, and critical essays appeared in most of the important magazines of his
                    day, including the Atlantic Monthly, Lippincott's, and the Cosmopolitan. When editors of the 
                        New York
                     weekly Independent announced in 1889 that Thompson was to become the
                    magazine's literary editor, they promised their readers that Thompson had an influence
                    "second to that of no man in the country in determining, if not what shall be written, at
                    least what shall be read."4
            
            Thompson wrote and carried out his editorial responsibilities from his home in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Indiana. Although 
                        Crawfordsville
                     was 
                  
                     4 "Mr. Maurice Thompson Becomes an Editor of the
                            Independent," Independent (October 3, 1889), 1274.
               
                     known as a cultural center (for a time it was called
                    "the 
                        Athens
                     of Indiana"), the rural West was an especially difficult place to pursue a
                    literary career in the late nineteenth century. William Dean Howells, also from the West, moved to
                    the Northeast to seek his literary fortune, as did some of the more successful writers of regional
                    fiction, including Thomas Nelson Page and Hamlin Garland. But Thompson's love of the western
                    countryside made such a move undesirable. A sketch of Thompson's life published in the Independent shortly after his death noted that he "had a passionate and
                    unconquerable love for the woods and fields" and a genuine dislike for cities.5 What is more, the countryside was for Thompson the source of his artistic
                    inspiration. "His most exquisite verse is the poetry of streams and forest,"
                    continued the Independent sketch, "and he never could have found
                    inspiration in brick walls and pavements."6
            
            Despite his penchant for writing from a rural setting, Thompson knew that eastern editors and
                    publishers would determine his literary success. He often believed that his status as a westerner
                    placed him beneath eastern authors in the estimation of many editors. "Time after
                    time," notes one biographer, "he saw what seemed to him preferential treatment
                    given to eastern authors by the major magazines, while his own work was rejected or published only
                    by second-rate outlets."7 Thompson considered this a great injustice,
                    and he longed to see during his lifetime a decentralization of American literary culture, so that
                    western writers would no longer be subject to the prejudices of eastern editors and the
                    peculiarities of eastern taste. At the same time, he was lured by the prestige attached to
                    publishing with the right 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Boston
                     periodicals, a prestige that separated the major writers from lesser-known authors.
                    Thompson was fond of arguing that commercial success was no indication of artistic value, but he
                    clearly believed that acceptance by certain magazines such as the Atlantic offered
                    some sign of an artist's merit. The boundary that might keep culturally peripheral writers from
                    success was strongly felt by such western writers as Thompson; but so too was the boundary made to
                    differentiate between superior art and the rest. Boundaries and the ways they structure social
                    difference stand as central themes in both Hoosier Mosaics and Stories of the Cherokee Hills, whereby some boundaries are shown to be unjust while others
                    are made not only just but essential to the preservation of order.
            That Thompson would have chosen the regional form as his first hope for establishing himself as a
                    writer is not surprising given the possible paths to a literary career in the second half of the
                    nineteenth 
                  
                     5 Mary H. Krout, "Maurice Thompson at Home," Independent (February 21, 1901), 417.
                  
                            6
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     7 Otis B. Wheeler, The Literary Career of Maurice
                                Thompson (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , La., 1965), 33.
               
                     century. Desirous of literary achievement but uninterested in
                    moving to the cultural centers in the East, Thompson realized that he had to launch his writing
                    career as a peripheral figure, both geographically and culturally. Brodhead argues that the regional
                    form made authorship available to people such as Thompson, who previously had been excluded from
                    literary culture. He notes that the expectations placed on regional fiction writers were less of
                    craft and style than of close familiarity with a culture remote from that of his readers.
                    "In this respect," asserts Brodhead, "regionalism made the experience of
                    the socially marginalized into a literary asset, and so made marginality itself a positive authorial
                        advantage."8 Thompson certainly met this requirement, having been
                    born in the Indiana countryside and raised on a small plantation in the mountains of northern 
                        Georgia
                    . In the foreword to Stories of the Cherokee Hills, Thompson
                    established his authority on the 
                        Georgia
                     upcountry by noting the peculiarity of his early life. "For many
                    years," he wrote, "I spoke the mountain lingo, wore the mountain garb, conformed
                    to all the customs and manners of the mountain folk."9 Depicting
                    strange and colorful characters whose time worn ways of life are threatened by modernizing forces,
                    the sketches in both Stories of the Cherokee Hills and Hoosier
                        Mosaics satisfied the obligations of the regional genre in their subject matter, their
                    elegiac tone over the disappearance of traditional ways, and their use of dialect and vernacular.10
            
            For Thompson, if status as an author was to begin with regional stories, it would not be enough to
                    end there. Thompson had high ambitions for creating a permanent body of art, and he felt strongly
                    about the relative worth of literary forms. Only true art had a chance to "take its place
                    among the immortal few," he wrote, and to be true it had to appeal "to the highest
                    level of taste," a level "as universal as it is lofty."11 While the short story deserved serious effort, its primary use for the young author was to
                    establish his presence in literary culture. "Popular taste demands the short
                    story," he wrote late in his life, at the same time professing to have long quit writing in
                    the form; "editors are constantly on the look out for it and glad to get it; for it is the
                    first thing read in a magazine or journal devoted to literature."12 But
                    as a place for artistic merit, the short story fell below the poem on the scale of literary forms,
                    and it was Thompson's poetry that he considered his most important and enduring achievement.13 The regional stories written early in Thompson's career, then, were 
                  
                     8 Brodhead, Cultures of Letters, 117.
                  
                     9 Thompson, "Color-Line Jocundities," 2.
                  
                     10 For a discussion of some of the formal qualities of the regional
                            form, see Brodhead, Cultures of Letters, 115-16.
                  
                     11 Maurice Thompson, "Handmade Literature,"Independent (December 10, 1896), 5.
                  
                     12 Maurice Thompson, "The Literary Market," Independent (September 14, 1899), 2486.
                  
                     13 See Wheeler, The Literary Career of Maurice
                            Thompson, 93.
               
                     produced more for professional than for artistic purposes. The
                    Indiana stories gave him a point of entry into literary culture, and to the extent that both the
                    Indiana and 
                        Georgia
                     stories appealed to eastern book publishers and magazine editors, they allowed him an
                    opportunity to advance his regional cause, the advocacy of the West as a site of literary
                    production.
            Thompson insisted that the universality of art also promoted his regional cause by legitimating his
                    remaining in the West. He argued that true art was not bound to geographic location. If the highest
                    art is marked by its universal features, he asked, if the work of great literature holds a
                    "deep-dwelling, stedfast quality which, like the light in a precious stone, abides through
                    the ages undimmed," who is to say that its production and appreciation is limited by
                        region?14 Why must the Northeast remain the solitary arbiter of literary
                    taste in America? If art cannot be defined by a particular time, he argued, it equally cannot be
                    bound to a particular place. "Art is art in 
                  Hong
                        Kong, Boston
                or 
                        New Orleans
                    ," he wrote in 1884.15 Indeed, Thompson's desire to
                    participate in the creation of a permanent body of art required that he remain in the West. For
                    Thompson, the natural world that Indiana offered was to be the chief source of inspiration for
                    creating a true and timeless art. The city is a place of fashion, he argued, and the art it gives
                    rise to must be merely fashionable as well. "How shall the genius that is saturated from
                    birth to death with nothing but the exaggerated artificiality of metropolitan life," he
                    asked in 1898, "ever get back to elemental verity in art?"16
                    But the countryside is unchanging—"on the bough yonder the thrush repeats what
                    was a thrush's song ten thousand years ago"—and the art that is produced there
                    will benefit from its immutability.17 Thompson thus urged the modern poet to
                    "go to nature for the keynote" in the manner of the bards of antiquity,
                    "whose chords have remained true and irresistible for centuries."18 In fashioning himself a high-literary figure who eschewed the corrupting influences of the
                    city, Thompson sought to realign the demarcation separating high art from the vernacular by making
                    the countryside rather than the city the province of high artistic production.
            Thompson thus considered his literary enterprise in terms of two separate but related boundaries. The
                    first was the boundary that separated the center of literary culture from the periphery, a boundary
                    (marking not only geographic difference but also difference in subject and style) that became
                    relevant to literary production when 
                  
                     14 Thompson, "Handmade Literature," 5.
                  
                     15 Maurice Thompson, "Some Notes on Southern
                            Literature," Independent (August 21, 1884), 1.
                  
                     16 Maurice Thompson, "A Word to Southern Tourists,"
                                Independent (August 21, 1884), 1.
                  
                     17 Maurice Thompson, To Return to Nature," Independent (June 10, 1897), 5.
                  
                            18
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     it formed the basis for either excluding writers on the
                    periphery of culture from success or relegating their success to an authorship subordinate to the
                    major writers. Thompson regarded this an illegitimate boundary, a purely social construct that
                    should be wholly transgressable if not erased. The second boundary separated art of quality from art
                    that either lacked quality or was simply fashionable, This boundary, Thompson argued, had its basis
                    in nature, could be best comprehended by observing nature and should be maintained. Thompson's
                    advocacy of the West as a place for literary achievement, then, stemmed from the twin desires of
                    erasing unnatural boundaries that could mark him (and any western writer) as marginal and observing
                    "natural" limits that could distinguish him as an enduring—if not
                    major—writer.
            This concern with erasing and observing boundaries appears thematically in both Hoosier
                        Mosaics and Stories of the Cherokee Hills. In both volumes Thompson
                    imagines a world in which people are organized into hierarchical structures of authority. Characters
                    are marked "low" or "peripheral" in the Indiana stories by their
                    affiliation with a distinct regional culture and in the 
                        Georgia
                     stories by the affiliation with a distinct racial culture. In Hoosier
                        Mosaics Thompson writes about regional characters who attempt and invariably fail to
                    transgress the social boundaries that subordinate them to characters representative of modern
                    industrial society. The reader is enlisted to feel sympathy for these local characters and to see
                    the injustice of the boundaries responsible for the suffering that follows their failure. Thompson,
                    in his own early attempt to transgress the regionally inscribed boundary that would keep him out of
                    literary culture (or limit the terms of his entrance), thus created a fiction that might make a
                    readership sympathetic to his efforts.
            The 
                        Georgia
                     stories, written at the same time as the Indiana stories, concern themselves with
                    maintaining social boundaries. In their depictions of race relations in the 
                        Georgia
                     upcountry, the sketches in Stories of the Cherokee Hills hold for a
                    "natural" boundary that subordinates black rural Georgians to white rural
                    Georgians. As modernizing forces seek to disrupt these "natural" relations, the
                    boundaries are either maintained for the survival of order or are confounded by a collapse into what
                    Thompson perceives as chaos. Here, Thompson creates a fiction that points up what he sees as the
                    validity of "natural" boundaries and the uncivilizing consequences of their
                    disruption, a fiction allied with his project of designating a hierarchy of artistic values and
                    literary forms.
            To understand the significance of boundaries in Thompson's literary career, it is important to
                    briefly consider his life.19 Born in Fair-field, 
                  
                     19 The biographical information in the following account is drawn
                            largely from Wheeler, The Literary Career of Maurice Thompson, chapter 1;
                                Dictionary of Literary Biography, see under "Maurice
                            Thompson"; Dictionary of American Biography, see under
                            "James Maurice Thompson"; "Maurice Thompson," Book News, X (April, 1892), 349-50.
               
                     Indiana, in 1844 to an itinerant Baptist preacher and a mother
                    who was unusually well educated, James Maurice Thompson's first ten years were marked by frequent
                    moves between northern and southern states.20 By 1854 his family had finally
                    settled on a small plantation his father inherited in the hill country of northern 
                        Georgia
                    . In the foreword to Stories of the Cherokee Hills, Thompson wrote of
                    his 
                        Georgia
                     youth that "all of our neighbors and friends were mountaineers" and
                    that he "grew up a mountaineer boy."21 Unfortunately, this
                    claim to a mountaineer youth, while important to Thompson's credibility as an expert on traditional 
                        Georgia
                     folkways, was only partially true. Thompson's parents placed a high premium on
                    education, and because they were concerned that their two sons would not receive adequate
                    instruction at the local schools, they kept Maurice and his brother Will home for their schooling,
                    where private tutors instructed them in languages, literature, and mathematics. Thompson's childhood
                    years were thus marked by activities that would have seemed primitive to urban
                    northerners—"coon-hunting by torchlight, chestnut-hunting on the mountain tops,
                    'possum hunting in the bottom lands"—but they were characterized as well by
                    respectable literary pursuits that would have separated Thompson from his
                    "cracker" neighbors.22 During the Civil War Thompson fought
                    for the Confederacy, "hot-headed, unthinking, a mere boy," he later wrote,
                    "bubbling over with enthusiasm for the South and its cause."23
                    He surrendered to Union troops in the spring of 1865 and returned to his family's farm to find it in
                    ruins and his father in deep financial trouble. Several years of subsistence farming and a failed
                    attempt at a law practice convinced Thompson that southerners in the reconstructing South had fewer
                    opportunities than the northerners who were arriving in numbers.24 Nearly broke,
                    he and his brother returned on foot to their native Indiana in 1868 and quickly settled in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    .
            If his 
                        Georgia
                     years were marked by quiet rural gentility, Thompson's early years in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     were defined by an active participation in the institutions of modernization. Shortly
                    after his arrival, Thompson began work as a civil engineer with a railroad company, rising within
                    months to the rank of chief engineer on a rail line that passed through the region. He married the
                    daughter of the railroad's lead contractor, and when the line was completed in 1871, he decided to
                    remain in the area to open a law practice. 
                        Crawfordsville
                     was a stronghold of Union sentiment, and Thompson occasionally found 
                  
                     20 For a discussion of Thompson's father, see Walter L. Fertig,
                            "Maurice Thompson's Primitive Baptist Heritage," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, LXIV (March, 1968), 1-12.
                  
                     21 Thompson, "Color-Line Jocundities," 2.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., 3.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., 4.
                  
                     24 See Wheeler, The Literary Career of Maurice
                            Thompson, 22.
               
                     himself the object of derision. Nevertheless, his practice
                    flourished, and he was even elected to the Indiana state legislature in 1878. Thompson had long
                    nursed a desire for a writing career, and through the 1870s he found an increasing interest in his
                    work among eastern magazine editors. But the income that magazines offered was slight and uncertain,
                    and because financial security was a chief concern, he continued to practice law while complaining
                    to friends that he found too little time to write. In 1884, with several books to his name
                    (including one quite successful novel), Thompson quit his practice to devote his full attention to
                    writing. "In a moment of weakness," he wrote several years later, "I drew
                    out of the law firm and fell into the pit of literature. It was a foolish thing to do, and may end
                    disastrously; but it is done."25
            
            Thompson actually began to establish himself as a serious writer while still living in 
                        Georgia
                    , when in 1866 he published the first of several essays and poems in the 
                        Atlanta
                    -based Scott's Monthly Magazine, one of the most noteworthy of the new
                    southern magazines that appeared immediately after the war.26 Thompson knew the
                    difference between publishing in a regional magazine in the South and publishing in a national
                    magazine in the North, however, and it was not until his poem "At the Window"
                    appeared in 1873 in the Atlantic that Thompson considered his career as an author
                    to have commenced. In his earliest pieces in Scott's Monthly Magazine, poems such
                    as "Ad Cynthiam Retrospiciens" and essays on "Leibnitz" and "
                        Italy
                     and the Arts," Thompson seemed more intent on establishing himself as a man of
                    letters than on singing the song of nature. One account of southern writers published in 1869
                    observed that Thompson's poetry was promising but too difficult for most to understand and that the
                    same was true of his essays, where the "continuous display of learning" was not as
                    pedantic as in the poetry, though "fatiguing" nonetheless.27
            
            If at Scott's Monthly Magazine Thompson was seen as a formidable writer of high
                    learning, at the Atlantic he was viewed as an unpolished writer of the West. In
                    1883 William Dean Howells, who was editor of the Atlantic in the early 1870s,
                    wrote a review of Thompson's first collection of poetry in which he recounted first reading
                    "At the Window." The aging New 
                        England
                     poet Henry Wadsworth Longfellow was with Howells in the Atlantic
                    office that morning, and after reading the poem Howells turned to show it to his friend. "I
                    remember sharing my pleasure in its freshness," Howells wrote. While Longfellow liked it
                    too, he asked about a bird referred to twice in the 
                  
                     25 Quoted in "Maurice Thompson," Book
                                News, 350.
                  
                     26 For a brief discussion of Scott's Monthly
                            Magazine, see Frank Luther Mott, A History of American Magazines,
                                1865–1885 (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1938), 45-46.
                  
                     27 James Wood Davidson, The Living Writers of the
                            South (
                                New York
                            , 1869), 562.
               
                     poem, the sap-sucker, of which he had never heard.28 Howells knew the name to be common in the West, but he questioned its use as
                    well. "I asked him [Longfellow] if I had not better turn it into a bluebird,"
                    Howells wrote, a suggestion Longfellow thought wise.29 The change was made, and
                    the poem appeared with a word more familiar to an eastern readership—and doubtless more
                    genteel-sounding-than sap-sucker. Thompson's language thus betrayed his regional status, a status
                    that made it possible, if not necessary, for the leaders of the dominant literary culture to refine
                    his language to make it more suitable to their vision of literary merit.
            Howells's review, published in the Independent, shows how a writer who remained in
                    the rural West was likely to be perceived by eastern editors and readers. While favorable of
                    Thompson's work, Howells found it important to situate him as a writer from "a little
                    Western city," far removed from "literary associations and what are supposed to be
                    literary incentives."30 Such conditions, wrote Howells, necessarily
                    militated against a strong technical understanding of literature and ensured the survival of
                    "old-fashioned" literary tastes. This second point is particularly noteworthy
                    because Thompson at this time was becoming one of the most vocal champions of the romance fiction
                    rejected by Howells in his call for realism.31 Howells made Thompson represent
                    the small-town and small-time writer for whom literature is a "rare and precious
                    privilege" regarded with a refreshing if not charming respect. "We may realize
                    that the deepest sympathy with literature is not in 
                        Boston
                     or 
                        New York
                    ," he wrote, "but in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , wherever 
                        Crawfordsville
                     happens to be, east or west, north or south."32 Howells
                    praised Thompson's work despite his initial caveats, calling it a "fresh, new speech for
                    Nature," but a speech all the more noteworthy because it came from the pen of a lawyer from
                    an "interior city of the second or third class."33 Howells
                    thus sustained a condescending tone throughout the review even as he called for a reconsideration of
                    the literary possibilities of the West.
            Thompson repudiated the notion that his distance from the cultural centers of 
                        Boston
                     and 
                        New York
                     somehow made his ideas and his work secondary in importance. At stake was the success
                    of his literary career: which magazines he would publish in, how much influence he would exert on
                    the literary taste of the reading public, 
                  
                     28 William Dean Howells, "Maurice Thompson and His
                            Poems," Independent (October 4, 1883), 1.
                  
                            29
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            30
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     31 See Gary Scharnhorst, "William Dean Howells and Maurice
                            Thompson: At War Over Realism?" Old Northwest, V (Fall, 1979),
                            291-302; Gary F. Scharnhorst, "Maurice Thompson's Regional Critique of William D.
                            Howells," American Literary Realism, IX (Winter, 1976), 57-63;
                            Walter L. Fertig, "Maurice Thompson at War with the Realists," Old Northwest, I (September, 1975), 239-51.
                  
                     32 Howells, "Maurice Thompson and His Poems," 1.
                  
                            33
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     and, of course, how much money he would earn from his
                    authorship. Recognition by influential magazines was one of the ways that a literary career could
                    take hold, and when Thompson saw his work rejected by magazines such as the Century
                        Magazine, he was inclined to believe the reason was that he remained a Westerner.
                    "Either I have mistaken my calling and am unworthy to be trusted as a writer," he
                    wrote in 1886 to Richard Watson Gilder, editor of Century Magazine, after a
                    puzzling rejection, "or I am an 'outsider,' who is used as a jar of superfluous milk to be
                    skimmed when there chances to be a sudden call for 'copy.'"34 When Century Magazine declined to publish a lengthy biographical sketch about Thompson
                    several years later, the extent to which he attached success to influential magazines became
                    apparent. "Oh, Gilder! You know how bitter this is," he wrote after learning the
                    sketch would not appear and after seeing an identical piece about Robert Louis Stevenson.
                    "I feel that there could be no more perfect revalation of my insignificance than that which
                    at this moment burns in my very soul… It is the deepest misery I ever felt."35 Thompson later repeated to Gilder his belief that his position as a writer
                    was that of an outsider and his hope that the Century Magazine piece would have
                    changed that. "I am outside the circle, of course, and am kept from exerting a personal
                    influence, and I shall never, perhaps, be inside… just now I feel the need of what Mr.
                    Howells had at about my age, the way made clear."36 Thompson believed,
                    then, that a barrier stood between him and literary success, a barrier that was marked by his
                    regional affiliation and that needed to be removed if he were to succeed as a writer.
            Thompson's high valuation of eastern recognition and his claims for the literary possibilities of the
                    West often seemed at odds. While he acknowledged the importance of eastern literary culture to an
                    author's success, he also believed there was no reason why western literary culture should be any
                    less important. Nevertheless, the imbalance of power forced him to appeal to the East just as he
                    heralded the achievements and possibilities of the West. In an essay titled "Shall This
                    Thing Be?" written for the Independent in 1900, Thompson defended Indiana
                    against critics doubtful of the state's cultural progress. Comparing the age when literature in 
                        Massachusetts
                     began to flourish there with that of Indiana, he concluded, "we Hoosiers have
                    developed more rapidly than the Yankees!"37 Thompson listed fellow
                    Indianans who had become authors and insisted that to associate "Hoosier" with
                    ignorance and cultural deficiency would be a great injustice. "We create a demand for all
                    sorts of good literary 
                  
                     34 Quoted in Wheeler, The Literary Career of Maurice
                                Thompson, 33.
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., 34.
                  
                            36
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     37 Maurice Thompson, "Shall This Thing Be?" Independent (August 23, 1900), 2023.
               
                     wares. Our rural mail-route wagons are already carrying books,
                    magazines and literary journals to remotest country homes."38
            
            Ironically, Thompson died just as his fame was reaching its peak. When Alice of 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
                appeared late in 1900, its publisher expected the romance of
                    eighteenth-century Indiana to find wide appeal. In fact it did, but to an unanticipated degree.
                    "The book is sure to be one of the 'popular' novels of the year," wrote an early
                    reviewer for the Independent; "everyone will have to read it. Already,
                    the publishers inform us, the demand far exceeds the supply."39
                    Thompson fell ill in December, having long suffered health problems from an injury sustained in the
                    war. He became increasingly worse as the weeks passed, and while he lived to see Alice top the best-seller list in Bookman in January of 1901, by February he was dead.40
            
            Of the nine stories in Hoosier Mosaics, "Big Medicine" best
                    carries Thompson's concern with the line separating rural Indianans from members of modern
                    industrial society. The story begins at an auction in Jimtown, Indiana, at which Dave
                    Cook—locally known as "Big Medicine"—engages a stranger in a
                    bidding match for an old brick building at the center of town. The narrator immediately establishes
                    the social difference between Big Medicine and the stranger, Abner Golding. Big Medicine wears a
                    "soiled and somewhat patched suit of butternut jeans" and speaks in a regional
                    vernacular, while Abner's "queer green spectacles," standard speech, and fine
                    clothes mark him as a gentleman.41 Like Big Medicine, the entire town is
                    distinguished as less-than genteel, peopled by gruff and often disfigured characters (an
                    "old, grimy sinner," a "liver colored boy," and a
                    "humpbacked fellow split almost to his chin" have gathered for the auction).42 These characters, the narrator reports, were typical of the region before the
                    railroad company "lifted the fog and enlightened the miasmatic swamps and densely timbered
                    bog lands."43 Big Medicine loses the bidding match but in the process
                    falls in love with Abner's young daughter, Carrie. Abner Golding, the reader learns, had been a
                    successful retail merchant in 
                        Cincinnati
                     until a bank failure caused him to lose his fortune. With only a few hundred dollars
                    remaining, he and his daughter packed their meager belongings and moved to Jimtown to been a new
                    life.
            Abner takes an immediate interest in Big Medicine, and the two become partners in the general store
                    planned for the brick building. Big Medicine is delighted, having every desire to befriend Carrie
                    and make his way into her heart. Despite the partnership, the 
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., 2025.
                  
                     39 "Maurice Thompson's Novel," Independent (November 1, 1900), 2635.
                  
                     40 Wheeler, The Literary Career of Maurice Thompson,
                            37.
                  
                     41 Maurice Thompson, "Big Medicine," Hoosier Mosaics (reprint, 
                                Gainesville
                            , Fla., 1956), 51, 52.
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., 52.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., 51-52.
               
                     Goldings and Big Medicine are of different worlds, as is made
                    comically evident when Abner suggests that he and Big Medicine advertise the opening of the new
                    store. Unfamiliar with the word "advertise," Big Medicine remains confused until
                    Abner tells him that it involves painting signs on fences. Big Medicine is pleased with the idea and
                    goes to work as a back-country Indiana advertiser that night. "Yu thievin' duk legged ya
                    and na ole cuss, ef the sperit muves ye, go git a broad brimmed straw hat at Cook &
                    Golding's great stand at Jim-town," read the sign on the gate of a 
                        Quaker
                     townsman the next morning.44 "Deacon Jones" found
                    a similarly personal "Dern yer ole sole, ef yer want good Koffey go to Cook &
                    Golding's nu stoar" scrawled on his fence.45 The signs stimulated
                    business for the store, but it is likely that Abner's advertising vision—as well as the
                    advertising vision of the presumed reader—was considerably different from Big Medicine's.
            The story takes a turn when Abner learns after a year in Jim-town that his lost fortune has been
                    restored. Big Medicine, arriving at the store one morning in a reverie over a smile Carrie had given
                    him the day before, is perplexed by Abner's excitement. "Big Medicine gazed wonderingly
                    after his partner till he saw him run up stairs to Carrie's room," the narrator recounts.
                    "Then he thought he heard Carrie cry out joyfully."46 Carrie
                    and her father emerge dressed for travel, the young woman looking more radiant than Big Medicine had
                    ever seen her. Abner joyfully reports that the failed bank will begin payment on his old account and
                    that he and Carrie would leave that moment for 
                        Cincinnati
                    , with no intention of returning. In a fit of generosity, Abner gives the store to Big
                    Medicine before he and Carrie make their hasty goodbye. But when the coach disappears around the
                    corner, Carrie inside, Big Medicine can find no prospect for happiness in Jimtown. "She
                    ain't here, and what do I want of the derned old store?"47
            
            The final, painful scene occurs in 
                        Cincinnati
                     some weeks later. Big Medicine, his heart nearly broken at the thought of losing
                    Carrie, makes his way to the city and locates his old partner "in a splendid residence on
                    the heights just out of 
                        Cincinnati
                    ."48 Abner greets Big Medicine graciously but with some
                    reserve: the narrator informs the reader that the big man from Jimtown looked "terribly
                    uncouth" and that Abner had acquired the patronizing tone and dismissive manners of a
                    "very rich man."49 Keenly aware of the difference dividing
                    them, Big Medicine felt "as though he were shaking hands with 
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., 68.
                  
                            45
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., 71.
                  
                     47
                            Ibid., 72.
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., 73.
                  
                            49
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     some one over an insurmountable barrier."50 With Carrie the reception is even more anguishing, as he finds her seated in
                    the garden with an obviously succeeding suitor to whom Big Medicine is introduced as
                    "papa's partner in Indiana."51 Suddenly aware of the terms of
                    his welcome in Carrie's world, Big Medicine stands silently for a moment, brings the hands of the
                    two lovers together, and turns away. "As he did so a tear, a great bitter drop, rolled down
                    his haggard cheek," the narrator reports. "A few long strides and Big Medicine was
                    gone," disappearing forever into the wilds of the frontier West.52
            
            Plot and stylistic conventions appear in "Big Medicine" that turn up in most of the
                    other stories in Hoosier Mosaics. Modernizing forces—such as the market
                    economy manifest in Abner Golding's bank failure—bring the underdeveloped local community
                    into contact with representatives of the dominant modern society. These forces initially appear
                    advantageous: Jimtown was a sickly town prior to the efforts of the railroad, and it is not until
                    Abner arrives that Big Medicine has the power and status of merchant ("in those days, and
                    in that particular region," the reader learns, "to be a 'store keeper' was no
                    small honor").53 But relations between the two groups are organized
                    along hierarchical lines, in which the backward country folk are subject to the decisions and the
                    superior resources of the agents of progress. A local character then attempts to undermine the
                    hierarchy (never fully aware that he is doing so, because to him the structures of social difference
                    are not as evident or as evidently fixed) by imagining himself worthy of the same admiration he
                    holds for an outside character. He fails, and the reader is left feeling sympathy for the
                    big-hearted local character and disdainful of those who have constructed the
                    "insurmountable barrier" that bars him from happiness. As if to indicate the
                    artificiality of these rigidly determined social relations, Thompson at times interrupts the
                    narrative at decisive moments to pose a short nature interlude against the events at hand. Thus,
                    when Big Medicine is left standing alone at the store after Abner and Carrie have left Jimtown for
                    good, the narrator pauses to describe briefly the surrounding natural world as it works its timeless
                    way in spite of human folly: "The wind rustled the elm leaves and tossed the brown locks of
                    the man over his great forehead; the blue birds sang on the roof… and, high over head, in
                    the yellow mist of the fine June weather, sailed a great blue heron, going to the
                        lakes."54
            
            Other stories follow suit. In "The Legend of Potato Creek," Rose Turpin, a wealthy 
                        Indianapolis
                     girl on a summer visit to her uncle's 
                  
                            50
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., 74.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., 75.
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., 63.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., 72-73.
               
                     rural home, saves a sickly horse from the ax of Zach Jones, who
                    is himself sick with consumption and who immediately falls in love with Rose for halting the
                    execution he was about to perform. As the horse thrives in Rose's care, her uncle convinces her to
                    devote equal attention to Zach, whose visits to Rose were becoming frequent and whose poor health
                    concerned the kindly man. Rose agrees, and the time the two spend together restores Zach's health.
                    On Rose's last evening before departing, Zach makes his feelings known to her, much to his misery
                    and her sorrow. Rose returns to the city, makes her social debut, and marries a banker the following
                    spring. Zach meanwhile takes to his deathbed heartbroken. Rose arrives at her uncle's request just
                    in time to be with Zach when he dies (a moment when "across the fields of young green wheat
                    ran waves of the spring wind, murmuring and sighing, while the dust of blossoms wheeled, and rose
                    and fell in the last soft rays of the going sun").55 In the story
                    "Hoiden," Luke Plunkett, a farmer of a "fine, generous nature,"
                    catches a glimpse one day of the niece of a civil engineer who is surveying a railroad set to pass
                    through the region.56 "Sich a gal!" he mutters after seeing
                    young Hoiden Pearl, whom he uncharacteristically pursues and successfully befriends.57 The hours in Hoiden's company render Luke "the picture of happiness"
                    and despite her self-absorption he becomes wholly devoted to her.58 The
                    railroad, however, is quickly finished, and while Luke is away, Hoiden and her uncle depart in haste
                    for South America, much to Hoiden's excitement and delight. Luke returns with gifts for his
                    "Hoidy" Pearl and is bewildered when his sister tells him she has left.
                    "Come now, sis, don't try to fool me. I'm goin' right over to see the gal now, an' I've got
                    what'll tickly her awfully right here in this 'ere box."59 The truth
                    slowly dawns on Luke, and though the sky remains blue and the wind blows as it always does, the
                    broken man staggers and falls to his chair, fated to be forever alone.
            If the Indiana stories are about the problems barriers pose, the 
                        Georgia
                     stories are about the solutions barriers provide. In "Color-Line
                    Jocundities," which serves as a foreword to Stories of the Cherokee
                    Hills, Thompson made clear his concern with preserving the "color-line"
                    understood to divide blacks and whites. "The color-line is not a line of disgrace to black
                    or white," he wrote; "there would be no trouble on it, if it were respected by man
                    as thoroughly as God respected it in creating the two races."60 For
                    Thompson, racial difference was God-given and needed to be understood as perfectly
                    "natural." 
                  
                     55 Maurice Thompson, "The Legend of Potato Creek,"
                                Hoosier Mosaics (
                                New York
                            , 1875), 112.
                  
                     56 Maurice Thompson, "Hoiden," Hoosier
                                Mosaics (
                                New York
                            , 1875), 130.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., 133.
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., 156.
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., 160.
                  
                     60 Thompson, "Color-Line Jocundities," 10-11.
               
                     Trouble, which here stood for violence against blacks, occurred
                    only when attempts were made to transgress the color-line by challenging the equally natural social
                    hierarchy that subordinated blacks to whites. In Thompson's view, the modem industrial North was one
                    of the prime sources of trouble because it was northern sentiment that disrupted natural race
                    relations by "cram[ming] the negro forcibly into the cars, the theatres, the schools, and
                    the churches built, owned, and operated by white Southerners for the use of white
                        Southerners."61 Referring to two of his upcountry characters,
                    Thompson assured his reader that both southern blacks and southern whites knew better than to
                    challenge the premise of racial segregation. "They regard each other with humorous
                    respect," he wrote, "comprehending the situation far more clearly than do the good
                    zealots who from afar off shout for equality."62 If left alone, he
                    continued, black and white southerners would work together to arrange "the difficult
                    details of their relations" according to the "law of Nature," a law that
                    "no legislative body can successfully modify or amend, which no earthly power can
                        repeal."63
            
            The sketches in Stories of the Cherokee Hills are more episodic than the Indiana
                    stories. "Ben and Judas," which Thompson placed first in the volume because it
                    sounded the "key note of [his] purpose," presents a series of scenes depicting the
                    relation between master (Ben) and slave (Judas) who are born on the same day and who live out their
                    lives as inseparable mates.64 Thompson's purpose in this story is evident: to
                    stress the importance of preserving the boundary dividing the races. He does so by urging that the
                    subordination of black Americans to white Americans is both natural and inevitable. The narrator,
                    then, speaks of Judas's "hereditary limitation" and of Ben "asserting the
                    superiority inherent in his blood."65 That Ben and Judas shared a
                    cradle would be of little consequence in their relation to one another as adults: "Ben was
                    master, Judas slave. They were differentiated at this one point, and at another, the point of color,
                    irrevocably, hopelessly."66 And indeed, by early childhood Judas
                    discovered that "by some invisible and inscrutable decree, he was slave to Ben,"
                    while Ben realized "he was rightful master to Judas."67
            
            The decree that separates black from white also binds them in mutual responsibility. When Ben becomes
                    sick with the measles 
                  
                     61
                            Ibid., 10.
                  
                     62
                            Ibid., 16.
                  
                     63
                            Ibid. For more on Thompson's views on race, see Maurice Thompson,
                            "The Intellectual Future of the Negro," Independent
                            (April 16, 1891), 2. See also Walter L. Fertig, "Maurice Thompson as a Spokesman
                            for the New South," Indiana Magazine of History, LX (December,
                            1964), 323-30.
                  
                     64
                            Ibid., 7-8.
                  
                     65 Maurice Thompson, "Ben and Judas," Stories of the Cherokee Hills (
                                Boston
                            , 1898), 59.
                  
                     66
                            Ibid., 44.
                  
                     67
                            Ibid., 35.
               
                     Judas quietly nurses him to health; Judas then falls ill, and
                    Ben in turn attends to him night and day. "Ben's whole life for the time was centered in
                    the one thought of saving the slave. In this he was absolutely unselfish and at last
                        successful."68 Similarly, Ben's frequent threats to beat Judas are
                    shown to be "the merest mouthing," devoid of any intention of real bodily harm.69 While Judas fully recognizes the emptiness of Ben's threats, he knows as well
                    never to disobey. In Thompson's story, master and slave know their place and so are able to live
                    lazy, quiet, contented lives of long afternoons fishing, affectionate bickering, and unstated mutual
                    respect.
            Finally, the consequences of disrupting this order, although depicted in a humorous light, are shown
                    to be dire. Early in the story Judas expresses a long-felt desire for freedom. But the notion of
                    freedom he entertains emerges only as a vision of mastery over Ben, a dreamed-of
                    "revolution" that would "turn him on top and Ben below, if but for a few
                    moments of delirious triumph."70 One day Judas finally asks Ben if they
                    might switch places, and Ben accedes. Judas takes immediately to a string of threats and curses,
                    handing Ben his hoe and setting him to work in the patch he had just been tending. The
                    "farce" ends with Ben acting the role of a malingering field hand, proposing to
                    his "master" that they quit the day to go fishing. While the scene is intended to
                    be comical, it suggests that southern blacks see freedom simply as mastery over southern whites,
                    appealing to those fearful of the power free blacks might seek to wield.
            The story "A Race Romance" further develops the theme of racial inversion. The
                    story depicts the relations between Wiley Brimson, a farmer living high in the Cherokee hills, and
                    his one slave, Rory Marting, whom Wiley claims to consider his equal. "He's jes' as good as
                    I air," Wiley says of Rory. "He hev jes' as much right ter boss me as I hev ter
                    boss him. He orter be free."71 But Wiley keeps Rory a slave,
                    maintaining that he cannot afford losing his most valuable property, and to ease his conscience he
                    ventures to teach Rory to read. "Knowledge air power," Wiley tells Rory.
                    "The nigger rac'll be ekal ter any race under heving jes' as soon as it kin read an
                        write."72 The reader quickly sees that Wiley's project is
                    ill-fated. As Rory learns to read, his "barbaric nature" becomes more
                    pronounced—"His taste for baked 'possum grew more intense, and his proficiency
                    in banjo picking wonderfully increased, as if his imagination were liberating itself altogether
                    along savage lines"—while Wiley grows pale and weak, bearing the look of one
                    "about to fall into a nebulous state of disintegration."73
                    
                  
                     68
                            Ibid., 53.
                  
                     69
                            Ibid., 42.
                  
                     70
                            Ibid., 47.
                  
                     71 Maurice Thompson, "A Race Romance," Stories of the Cherokee Hills (
                                Boston
                            , 1898), 139.
                  
                     72
                            Ibid., 146-47.
                  
                     73
                            Ibid., 148-49.
               
                    
                    
                  ENGRAVING BY EDWARD W. KEMBLE THAT
                                ACCOMPANIED THE PUBLICATION OF "BEN AND
                                JUDAS" IN THE
                            CENTURY MAGAZINE
                     
                            IN 1889
                  Courtesy Yale University Library, 
                                New Haven
                                Connecticut
                            .
               
                     When the war ends and Rory is freed, Wiley fuels his
                    imagination by encouraging him to seek his just place in society. "I'd wrest from the white
                    man my jus' dues," he prods. "Ye'r' big an' strong, ye've got the power, an' yo'r'
                    foolish ef ye don't use it."74 The last pages of the story offer no
                    surprises. Rory overturns the master/slave relation and asserts an unyielding authority over Wiley,
                    who is last seen dodging Rory's switch, his "drawn, shrunken, and pathetic" look
                    expressing "with more power than any form of words could the dread he felt of the storming
                    negro behind him."75 The point of the story, that chaos will ensue when
                    the racial boundary is challenged, is clear enough.
            Thus the 
                        Georgia
                     stories concern themselves with preserving those social relations based on perceived
                    racial difference and the subordination of blacks to whites. They work by indicating the naturalness
                    of racial difference and subordination, the mutual relations inherent in hierarchical relations, and
                    the uncivilizing effects of appeals to racial equality. The Indiana stories concern themselves with
                    undoing those social relations in which perceived regional difference is made the basis for
                    subordinating local societies and their representatives to the dominant modern society. They work by
                    showing the unnaturalness of such relations and the injury consequent to the insistence of regional
                    inequality. Thompson's regional stories cannot be read simply as undifferentiated instances of a
                    formulaic genre. Rather, they must be understood in the context of the boundary projects Thompson
                    considered important to his success as an author. Like the local characters in Hoosier
                        Mosaics, Thompson felt the injustice of the boundary that marked him as a peripheral figure
                    on the cultural landscape. At the same time, he believed strongly in preserving the boundary that
                    divided high and low artistic production, a boundary that was in many ways analogous to the
                    "natural" racial divide traced again and again in Stories of the
                        Cherokee Hills.
            
            The publication history of Hoosier Mosaics and Stories of the Cherokee
                        Hills marks those moments when Thompson's own interest in boundaries resonated with the
                    interest of the editors and readers whose respect he avidly sought. The Indiana stories were
                    published in the heyday of "local color" fiction at a time when Reconstruction and
                    westward expansion fueled a desire to see sectional differences eased. As Brodhead notes of the
                    regional form, "this genre's great public flowering began with the Northern victory in the
                    Civil War, in other words with the forcible repression of sectional autonomy in favor of national
                    union and the legal supplanting of the locally variant by national norms of citizenly
                        rights."76 By the time Stories of the
                    
                  
                     74
                            Ibid., 154-55.
                  
                     75
                            Ibid., 164.
                  
                     76 Brodhead, Cultures of Letters, 119.
               
                    
                    Cherokee Hills appeared in 1898, the regional form had entered a decline. Because
                    of declining northern concern for the position of black southerers, there was new room for stories
                    of racial harmony in the South. Joel Williamson notes that economic uncertainty, rising immigration,
                    and working-class radicalism spawned fears of social disintegration among the northern upper and
                    middle classes in the 1880s and 1890s. "Rather clearly," he writes, "the
                    North began to think that it had problems at home more deserving of its attention than the racial
                    situation in the South."77 Many Americans supported racial segregation
                    in the South, as did the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court in the 1896 Plessy v. Ferguson
                    decision. As concern with real conditions in the South declined, conditions that saw through the
                    1890s a rise in violence against blacks, interest in fictional accounts of race relations surged.
                    Stories like Thompson's that sentimentalized relations between blacks and whites in the South
                    assured northern readers that peaceful conditions prevailed and were likely to prevail in the
                    segregated South.
            The racial boundary that Thompson explores in his fiction, depicted as natural and essential to
                    maintaining order, and the line between high and low art that he explores in his criticism, are not
                    simply analogous to one another. Lawrence Levine, like Williamson, argues that the close of the
                    nineteenth century saw among urban elites and aspiring members of the middle class a growing sense
                    of urgency over the dangers of what they perceived to be a fragmenting society.78 Determined to affirm their social and cultural superiority over black Americans and new
                    immigrants, many well-to-do white Americans (the same people who read Harper's
                    Monthly and Atlantic) found it important to distinguish for themselves a
                    realm of high cultural activity. High culture became the province of the best, the place where the
                    inspired artist created and transmitted immutable art and where the cultural aspirant went to affirm
                    a position of power against the vagaries of a changing society. Not surprisingly, as Levine argues,
                    this ordering of cultural practices into hierarchical structures had racial and ethnic overtones, so
                    that the art and culture of Western Europe ranked as superior to the art and culture of Asia,
                    Africa, and Eastern Europe. Biological evidence purporting to show the intellectual inferiority of
                    non-European groups was offered to provide a natural basis for the newly defined cultural
                        hierarchy.79 The boundary separating high from low culture, then, was made
                    in part to be the same boundary that separated white Americans from black Americans. And it was a
                    line understood as originating in nature. In this 
                  
                     77 Joel Williamson, The Crucible of Race: Black-White
                                Relations in the American South since Emancipation (
                                New York
                            , 1984), 327.
                  
                     78 Lawrence W. Levine, Highbrow I Lowbrow: The Emergence
                                of Cultural Hierarchy in America (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1988).
                  
                     79
                            Ibid., 219-25.
               
                     light, Thompson's desire to preserve the distance between high
                    and low art and his desire to preserve the boundary between black and white Americans can be
                    understood as cultural and social constituents, respectively, of a larger project of differentiation
                    that found wide appeal in the 1880s and 1890s.
            Less than a year before his death, Thompson recalled a question once asked of him by a friend.
                    "Where is Indiana," his friend queried in a letter from 
                        London
                    , "and what right has a 'Hoosier' to be setting up for a poet?"80 Although the question arose in reference to James Whitcomb Riley, Thompson
                    understood that it was directed at him as well, and from many different quarters. Indeed, during his
                    entire career as a writer, Thompson struggled to convince editors and readers that residency in the
                    West was not inconsistent with artistic achievement. For Thompson, becoming an author from the West
                    meant negotiating two boundaries of authorship: that dividing the center of literary culture from
                    the periphery, and that dividing true art from works that merely aspired to art. Thompson made these
                    boundaries dominant themes in his "local color" stories. Reading these stories in
                    the context of Thompson's career as an author provides a deeper understanding of the vexed relation
                    between regional identity and cultural authority in late nineteenth-century America.
            
               
                  80 Quoted in Thompson, "Shall This Thing Be?"
                    2023.
            
         
         
         
            
               Looking Back The Nation's Worst President? Warren G. Harding and Woodrow
                    Wilson Compared
            Robert H. Ferrell∗
            
            
               Florence Harding: The First Lady, the Jazz Age, and the Death of America's Most
                        Scandalous President. By Carl Sferrazza Anthony. (
                        New York
                    : Morrow, 1998. Pp. xxii, 645. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. Clothbound,
                    $29.95.)
            As the years pass, and historians make their judgments, large errors can occur, and such surely has
                    happened in the calculation of the place in history of President Warren G. Harding. Historians ought
                    to look more closely at the Harding administration, which presided over the country from March 4,
                    1921, until the president's death in 
                        San Francisco
                     on August 2, 1923. By the usual measure, employed by all recent writers except Robert
                    K. Murray in a book published nearly thirty years ago, Harding appears as the worst president in
                    American history.1 In the polls of historical scholars that began with Arthur M.
                    Schlesinger in 1948, of which there now are perhaps a dozen, Harding inevitably comes in last.2 The enormous biography of Florence Harding by Carl Sferrazza Anthony breaks no
                    new ground in its consideration of the nation's twenty-ninth president, and indeed if it were
                    possible to place Harding lower in the presidential pantheon, Anthony would do so. Dozens of pages
                    describe Harding's public errors and dozens more delve into what the author believes were his
                    manifold private inadequacies. But one must wonder if these evaluations are correct. In recent years
                    there has been a reconsideration of the presidency of Dwight D. Eisenhower, whose place in history
                    at the time of his death in 1969 was not high in the judgment of historians. The presidency of
                    Eisenhower's successor, John F. Kennedy, has received much criticism of late, and Kennedy's
                    reputation may be going down. Harry S. Truman was considered a very poor president during most of
                    the years of his presidency and those of his retirement, 
                  
                     ∗ Robert H. Ferrell is Distinguished Professor of History
                            Emeritus, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                  
                     1 Robert K. Murray, The Harding Era: Warren G. Harding
                                and His Administration (
                                Minneapolis
                            , 1969).
                  
                     2 The most recent poll conducted by Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr.,
                            appeared in the 
                                New York
                            
                            Times Magazine on December 15, 1996.
               
                     too, until shortly before his death in 1972; he now is
                    considered one of the best presidents.
            If one compares Harding with his immediate predecessor, Woodrow Wilson, the result is surprisingly
                    favorable to Harding. Wilson triumphed in 1912 only because Theodore Roosevelt divided the
                    Republican vote by seeking a third term, which created a three-way race among Wilson, himself, and
                    the completely overshadowed incumbent William H. Taft, who came in last. Roosevelt accumulated a
                    considerable popular vote, and Wilson took the presidency with a plurality. Thereafter he managed a
                    notable surge of legislative acts by combining his New Freedom program with his principal opponent's
                    New Nationalism. Wilson's stress on antitrust legislation followed out of his contentions during the
                    campaign, but the result of the new legislation was to increase the power of government, which was
                    Roosevelt's agenda. Moreover, the legislation proved deficient in succeeding years. The capstone of
                    Wilson's program, the Federal Reserve Act of 1913, did not prevent the stock market speculation that
                    began in 1927 and rose to its climactic month in 1929. In its early years the Federal Reserve System
                    did not function in the way expected. During the war it served as the bond-selling affiliate of the
                    treasury and only began operation in a serious way in 1919. It acted so crudely in 1920 that its
                    deflationary moves precipitated a major recession. For a while its board labored under the
                    impression that the $25 billion of government bonds injected into the economy by the war
                    and relief measures thereafter did not constitute the equivalent of currency and only in 1924 began
                    open market operations in government securities. Between 1927 and 1929 the board was divided over
                    the obvious market speculation and ended by doing nothing. Another ornament of Wilson's New Freedom
                    was the Federal Trade Commission (FTC), which had as its purpose the prevention of monopoly. Like
                    the Federal Reserve, the FTC languished during the war, and in the 1920s aroused the ire of
                    businessmen to such an extent that President Calvin Coolidge reduced it to impotence by naming to
                    its board the enemies of its purpose.
            Wilson's great address to Congress on April 2, 1917, in which he asked for a declaration of war
                    against 
                        Germany
                    , was the high point of his presidency and is quite possibly the finest speech of the
                    present century. It brought cheering, with rebel yells from Chief Justice Edward D. White. It was an
                    extraordinary production. Mobilization of the country's resources against the tragically wrong
                    policies of Wilhelminian 
                        Germany
                     was the right thing to do in 1917-1918. The German nation had rallied behind its
                    emperor and his military masters enthusiastically, if with little understanding of how German policy
                    for a generation had wrongheadedly urged upon its allies and enemies alike the notion that might
                    went before right. With the belief that power could justify everything, especially if it partook of
                    German right, the statesmen of 
                        Germany
                     in the years before 1914 put their  nation behind
                    an engine of destruction never seen before in human annals and unloosed such horrors as the sinking
                    of the Lusitania in 1915 and gas warfare. Unexpectedly the initial war of movement
                    on the western front turned into a war of position, trench war, where the life of a British second
                    lieutenant (and one presumes lieutenants in any army) was three weeks. Wilson galvanized the
                    American people to break the stalemate, and that was exactly what happened in the summer and early
                    autumn of 1918 when two million American troops entered the lines in northern 
                        France
                     and the weight of this reinforcement broke the German will to continue.
            While Wilson rose to war leadership, his domestic program was of questionable long-term value, and he
                    did not manage mobilization well. For nearly a year, until early in 1918, the American military
                    stalled in indecision, with leadership in the army's top post of chief of staff passing from one
                    incompetent to another, all presided over by a near incompetent secretary of war, Newton D. Baker,
                    who had been one of Wilson's students at Johns Hopkins University. Only with the chance arrival in 
                        Washington
                     of an extraordinarily able chief of staff, Peyton C. March, did the divisions begin
                    going overseas in earnest. Forty-two huge divisions (four four-thousand-man regiments and supporting
                    troops) crossed the Atlantic, most of them within six months, and won the war with the assistance of
                    John J. Pershing's doughty generalship. Meanwhile, economic mobilization failed. Under Wilson the
                    production of merchant ships and military equipment was as slow as was the coming of leadership in
                    the army. When finally a real administrator, Bernard M. Baruch, took over, about the same time as
                    General March assumed control of the military, it was too late—ships and military
                    equipment required more time than did the raising and transport of divisions. In 
                        France
                     the American divisions used French artillery and planes.
            At the 
                        Paris
                     conference, Wilson failed to produce a lasting peace with either 
                        Germany
                     or its allies. His imperious self assurance, behavior already exhibited at 
                        Princeton
                     where his presidency was marred by fights with the faculty, asserted itself during the
                    treaty negotiations. The president could not delegate responsibilities. He virtually ignored his
                    fellow delegates, notably Secretary of State Robert Lansing, whose irritations boiled over and later
                    caused his dismissal. Wilson failed to understand the requirement of the moment, which was a quick
                    peace. His heart's desire was the League of Nations, and he sacrificed everything to the attainment
                    of that goal at the peace conference. He arranged its twenty-six articles in a way that ensured
                    their defeat in the Senate and prevented American participation in world affairs for a generation.
                    He could have opted either for a covenant (he chose the Presbyterian word for the league's
                    constitution) that looked forward to gradual growth of international law and extension of
                    conciliation and arbitration, which had been the American way in international affairs since the
                    founding of the republic, or he could have  gone in the other
                    direction and proposed an outright alliance with the victorious allied powers to enforce peace for
                    perhaps half a dozen years. Instead he went down the middle with a covenant that obscurely mentioned
                    force but did not ensure it. The center of his design lay in the ambitious Article X. It is of
                    interest that when he returned to 
                        Washington
                     and welcomed the Senate foreign relations committee to the White House to explain his
                    new construction, the most effective critic was Senator Harding, who put his finger on the weakness
                    of Article X.3
            
            Wilson's presidency ended in collapse, for after his effort to rally the American people against
                    Senate opposition a stroke on October 2, 1919, turned him into a shell of a man. He probably would
                    have refused compromise with the Senate in any case, but in his physical weakness, combined with the
                    diminution of his mental powers occasioned by the stroke, he refused to offer his Senate opponents
                    the slightest compromise. For a year and a half he clung to office instead of turning it over to
                    Vice President Thomas R. Marshall. It is indicative of Wilson's incompetence that from the time of
                    his stroke until he left office on March 4, 1921, he did not see nor speak with his vice president.
            Against the one great triumph of Wilson's presidency and the extraordinary number of ineffective
                    moves or downright failures, the presidency of Harding should have appeared at the least to be
                    better, to have occupied a more honorable place in the history of the presidency. Harding won
                    election in 1920 by a landslide, a victory larger than any obtained by a president until the second
                    election of Franklin D. Roosevelt in 1936. In subsequent months he signed a long overdue treaty of
                    peace with 
                        Germany
                    , bringing the war formally to an end. Congress created the Bureau of the Budget, an
                    organization hitherto unheard-of, pulling the national budget out of its perennial log-rolling
                    confusions. The first director of the budget was the irascible Brigadier General Charles G. Dawes, a 
                        Chicago
                     banker who whipped the cabinet departments and independent agencies into financial
                    order. Harding allowed Secretary of State Charles Evans Hughes to arrange the 
                        Washington
                     Naval Conference in 1921-1922, which not merely limited battleships and aircraft
                    carriers of the world's major powers but arranged a nine-power guarantee of 
                        China
                     and an end to the Anglo Japanese Alliance of 1902, all worthwhile efforts in support of
                    peace.
            The new president had observed the remoteness of the presidency under Wilson, especially the almost
                    shuttered White House 
                  
                     3 The president told the senators that Article X was not a political
                            or legal but a moral pledge. When Harding asked the difference, Wilson said a moral pledge
                            was more binding than mere legality. If he spoke of legal obligation, he meant an individual
                            bound to a particular thing under certain sanctions. A moral obligation was of course
                            superior, had great binding force, and carried the right to judgment "as to whether
                            it is indeed incumbent upon one in those circumstances to do that thing." Every
                            moral obligation demanded judgment; legal obligations did not.
               
                    
                    
                  THE HARDINGS ABOUT TO ENTER THE WHITE HOUSE, INAUGURATION DAY,
                            1921
                  Courtesy Craig Schemer Collection, 
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     ;
                            reproduced from Carl Sferrazza Anthony, Florence Hording: The First Lady, the
                                Jazz Age, and the Death of America's Most Scandalous President (
                                New York
                            , 1998), following 298.
                during Wilson's illness, and in an act that brought much popular appreciation he opened
                    the gates of the president's house. Again people could visit the public rooms of the mansion, and
                    hundreds, occasionally thousands, did so daily. The White House took on its erstwhile name as the
                    People's House. Harding reestablished a practice of his predecessors by opening the doors of the
                    executive office each day at noon and shaking hands with three or four hundred visitors, a practice
                    continued by his successor Coolidge and discontinued by Herbert Hoover in 1929.
            But what of the Harding scandals, that is, the administrative scandals and those stories of the
                    president's behavior in funneling a succession of mistresses through the private rooms of the
                    People's House and the executive offices? It is the scandals that have besmirched Harding's
                    reputation. They, no doubt, account for the subtitle of Anthony's book and for the way in which he,
                    his countless reviewers, and a long series of writers have treated Harding.
            
            It is an interesting point that much of the talk about administrative scandals during the Harding
                    administration occurred just prior to the presidential election of 1924. That election was no large
                    contest, as Coolidge won handily against his virtually unknown Democratic opponent John W. Davis, a
                    Wall Street lawyer who had been born, his backers liked to say, in West 
                        Virginia
                    . But scandal was in the air that year, and the Democrats had good reason to bring it
                    out of the air and affix it to a Republican. The party's convention in 
                        Madison
                     Square Garden turned into a donnybrook of 103 ballots between the forces of two strong
                    candidates, the secretary of the treasury in the Wilson administration, William G. McAdoo, and
                    Governor Alfred E. Smith of 
                        New York
                    . Only after this grueling contest was it possible to nominate Davis. McAdoo was
                    Wilson's son-in-law, and at the very time of the former president's death in February, 1924, the
                    wealthy oilman Edward L. Doheny told a Senate committee that McAdoo was in his employ. It was true:
                    McAdoo, a lawyer, had taken an annual retainer that Doheny said was $50,000 and McAdoo
                    somewhat weakly told the committee was only $25,000. Fortunately, the committee did not
                    then discover that Al Smith was taking $400,000 from a 
                        New York City
                     lawyer who owned a large bloc of subway stock—the 
                        New York
                     subways then were privately owned—and wanted an increase in the nickel fare.
                    Smith's action was not discovered until the 1980s.
            In 1924 the Democrats' accusations of Republican administrative improprieties became convenient grist
                    for the presidential campaign. One of them concerned the speculations of the director of the
                    Veterans' Bureau, Colonel Charles R. Forbes. The colonel was guilty of taking money, although he
                    does not seem to have acquired enormous amounts; he let hospital contracts at a profit to himself
                    and presumably for the same reason declared perfectly good hospital supplies at a 
                        Maryland
                     depot to be surplus and sold at a fraction of their value. What little Harding could
                    have known about his operations, the president dealt with forthrightly by dismissing the wayward
                    colonel.
            The second and most notorious administrative scandal was the bribery of Secretary of the Interior
                    Albert B. Fall by Doheny and his fellow oilman Harry F. Sinclair to secure leases of naval oil
                    reserves in Teapot Dome in Wyoming and Elk Hills in 
                        California
                    . Fall took $404,000. But Harding had no way of discovering Fall's
                    malfeasance, which came out months after the president's death and vastly surprised everyone save
                    the principals. Fall had appeared to be an honest man. Secretary of Commerce Hoover wrote him upon
                    his retirement from the cabinet early in 1923 that the department "never had so
                    constructive and legal a headship as you gave it."
            The third of the administrative scandals was a series of unsupported allegations against Harding's
                    (and for a while Coolidge's) attorney general, Harry M. Daugherty, an 
                        Ohio
                     politician who had  been Harding's campaign
                    manager. Daugherty was tried twice in federal court in 
                        New York City
                    , with hung juries both times. In the second trial he was saved by a single juror who
                    was the hat-check concessionaire at the Hotel Astor. Years later the judge of the second trial wrote
                    in his memoirs, which attracted little attention, that had he been on the jury he would have voted
                    with the concessionaire.
            But where President Harding's reputation has seemingly come to grief has been not so much the
                    administrative scandals but in allegations of sexual impropriety. In this respect the new biography
                    of Florence Harding is beyond question a triumph of the accuser's art. A reader of the book has
                    recently contended that Anthony has "out-Russelled" the late Francis Russell, the
                    author of a salacious Harding biography entitled The Shadow of Blooming Grove.
               4 For example, Anthony retails the story of Grace Cross, a woman who worked in
                    Harding's senatorial office and allegedly was an old Harding flame. According to Harding hater
                    William C. Chancellor in his biography of the president, during an argument with Harding in 1918
                    Cross (apparently it was Cross; Chancellor was unsure) cut him with a knife, a fracas that became
                    known to the 
                        Washington
                     police.5 Anthony also credits the belief that Harding fathered a
                    child by a 
                  Marion, Ohio
               , woman, Susan Hodder. Finally, he asserts that everything appearing
                    in the book by Nan Britton, The President's Daughter (19271, was true, including
                    Britton's claim that she and the president spent some time in a coat closet.
            The allegations about Harding and Cross are baseless. It is Anthony's duty to support them, and his
                    evidence is of the flimsiest sort. It is true that on the day Harding died, the 
                        Washington
                     reporter Mark Sullivan informed his diary that when Harding was in the Senate he
                    suffered a heart attack going up a flight of stairs to Cross's apartment6
                    Wilson's private secretary, Joseph P. Tumulty, told Sullivan that Cross was hustled out of 
                        Washington
                     just before Harding's inauguration in 1921. But these tales cannot be substantiated.
                    The District of 
                        Columbia
                     police records long since have disappeared, probably destroyed. Tumulty's claim that
                    Cross was persuaded to leave 
                        Washington
                     was very probably just banter between the two men. The reporter also reminded Tumulty
                    of the gossip that Wilson had been friendly with Mary Peck, an acquaintance when he was 
                  
                     4 The books subtitle was Warren G. Harding and His
                            Times (
                                New York
                            , 1968). Blooming Grove is the 
                                Ohio
                             crossroads near which Harding was born. The shadow was a local rumor that the
                            Hardings possessed African-American blood.
                  
                     5 Chancellor's book was entitled 
                        
                                    Warren
                                 Gamaliel Harding: President of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                        Dayton, Ohio
                     , 1922). Published by the Sentinal
                            Press, it is available only in a few libraries such as the Library of Congress, the 
                                New York
                             Public Library, and the library of the 
                                Ohio
                             Historical Society. A story has it that the Bureau of Investigation, the
                            predecessor of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, destroyed copies.
                  
                     6 The Sullivan diary is in the Hoover Institution at
                                    
                        Stanford, California
                     , and a copy is in the Herbert Hoover
                            Library at West Branch, 
                                Iowa
                            .
               
                     president of 
                        Princeton
                    . Rumor had it that Wilson was "Peck's bad boy." He had written
                    effusive letters that Peck kept and enemies thought too friendly; Wilson's principal biographer,
                    Arthur Walworth, has properly dismissed the letters as of no account. There has not been a scintilla
                    of proof for the allegations against either Cross or Peck.
            The Hodder story rests on an article by Russell, which maintained that Harding had an affair with a
                    woman "long rumored to be" Hodder, and a later book review where Russell
                    reiterated this contention (but called Hodder Louise rather than Susan). Besides the Russell story,
                    Anthony relies on the belief of Hodder's granddaughter that her mother was Harding's daughter.
                    Recently, Hugh Brogan and Charles Mosley have perpetuated the saga in their weighty book Burke's Peerage and Baronetage: American Presidential Families.
               7
            
            As for the Britton book, nothing has emerged to support it over the years and there is much
                    circumstantial evidence against it. Britton indeed knew Harding. She was born in Claridon, 
                        Ohio
                    , a village close to 
                        Marion
                    , and grew up in 
                        Marion
                     where she graduated from high school in 1914. Her English teacher was the president's
                    sister Abigail. After working in 
                        Cleveland
                     and 
                        Chicago
                     she went to 
                        New York
                     and eventually was employed in the offices of the Bible Corporation of America where
                    she was secretary to its head, Richard Wight-man. Her employer was a former Presbyterian (and before
                    that Methodist) minister who was removed from his church in 1903, apparently for sending lewd poetry
                    to members of his congregation. Thereafter he engaged in a variety of enterprises, selling
                    insurance, mining stock, and Bibles, as well as writing advertising copy. He was contemplating
                    publication of an illustrated Bible that would eliminate all competitors when his secretary informed
                    him that her illegitimate daughter was Harding's daughter. Wightman, the author of three
                    inspirational books brought out by the 
                        New York
                     firm of Century, advised Britton to publish her story. Installed in Wightman's vacation
                    house in 
                        Connecticut
                    , she wrote the account, she said, in a few weeks. The carefully written volume of four
                    hundred pages appeared six months after she began it, an unlikely accomplishment for an amateur
                    author. Within months of the publication, Wightman's wife sued him for separation, naming Britton as
                    corespondent, and avowed that her husband wrote the book. The two, Wightman and Britton, divided the
                    royalties. One of the book's backers—it was published privately by a partnership that
                    took the name of the Elizabeth 
                  
                     7 See Francis Russell, "The Shadow of 
                                Warren
                             Harding," Antioch Review, XXXVI (Spring, 1978),
                            57-76; "A Naughty President," 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Review of Books, XXIX (June 24, 1982), 30-34, a review of Charles L.
                            Mee, The 
                                    Ohio
                                 Gang: The World of Warren G. Harding, An Historical Entertainment (
                                New York
                            , 1981); Hugh Brogan and Charles Mosley, Burke's Peerage and
                                Baronetage: American Presidential Families (
                                Toronto
                            , 1993).
               
                     Ann Guild, after the president's alleged
                    daughter—was recently out of Sing Sing. The book sold 115,000 copies at the then high
                    price of five dollars. It was sold from the guild's 
                        New York
                     office, the address of which was printed on the book's title page, and hence did not
                    need to be discounted to booksellers. It needed no advertising because of its salacious reputation.
            Suffice to say of The President's Daughter that Britton claimed she received many
                    letters from Harding between 1917 and 1923 but destroyed them because "Mr.
                    Harding" told her to. The last of these putative letters she read and reread on board a
                    liner bound for 
                        France
                     in 1923 and finally tore it to shreds and threw the pieces into the billowing waves. If
                    she had kept one letter, a single letter, it would have constituted an insurance policy, giving a
                    foundation to her claims. She sued the distributor of a book (the author had died) that questioned
                    her story, and the case Britton v. Klunk went to federal court
                    in 
                        Toledo
                     in 1931.8 Her sole proof of the relationship was her book. Before
                    the jury went out her 
                        Cleveland
                     lawyer reduced her asked-for award of remuneration from $50,000, the sum she
                    believed she should have had from President Harding's estate, to one cent. Deliberating an hour,
                    with three ballots, the jury refused her the cent.
            It is true that amidst all the smoke of adultery there was fire, but the single proven instance of an
                    affair involving Harding was a liaison with a 
                        Marion
                     neighbor, Carrie Phillips, that began in 1905 and ended well before the presidency.
                    Phillips blackmailed the presidential candidate in 1920 and was somehow satisfied.
            The new Harding book proposes a tantalizing (the author must have hoped) final scandal of a personal
                    nature, this concerning the president's death. A convicted criminal, Gaston B. Means, published a
                    book in 1930 entitled The Strange Death of President Harding in which he claimed
                    that Florence Harding poisoned her husband. Means did not write the book; he engaged a writer and
                    presented her with various alleged proofs. Gullibly, she composed the book on the basis of his
                    assertions. In 1931 she revealed her error in Liberty magazine, pathetically
                    admitting that she had been duped.9 The accusation nonetheless embedded itself
                    in the public memory and has been repeated down to the present by journalists, free-lance writers,
                    and some historians.
            Anthony has a new twist to the story. He argues that during the president's last days his personal
                    physician, Charles E. Sawyer, a homeopath, treated Harding with "purgatives" of an
                    unidentified 
                  
                     8 The book was by Joseph De Barthe, The Answer
                                    (
                        Marion, Ohio
                     , 1928).
                  
                     9 May Dixon Thacker, "Debunking 'The Strange Death of
                            President Harding': A Complete Repudiation of a Sensational Book by Its Author,"
                                Liberty, VIII (November 7,1931), 8-12. See also Robert H. Ferrell, The Strange Deaths of President Harding (
                                Columbia
                            , Mo., 1996); "The Death of President Harding," Timeline, XV (October, 1998). 2-17.
               
                     sort and that they, together with a final syringe of
                    "stimulants" when the president was in extremis in his 
                        San Francisco
                     hotel room, pushed him over "the last rapids on his way to Eternity,"
                    to use Sawyer's words. This act (if it occurred) the author describes as "negligent
                    homicide." He credits Mrs. Harding and the assistant White House physician, a navy doctor,
                    Joel T. Boone, present at the scene, as accomplices. His support for this scenario lies in a
                    confused and confusing minute-by-minute analysis of who was in the room when the president died. 
                        Boone
                     was out of the room at the moment of death but presumably had agreed to the
                    administration of the unknown purgatives.
            Anthony claims one remarkable manuscript "find" of historic value, a diary of the
                    president's wife discovered in an 
                        Ohio
                     barn. Other than having been written in circular fashion on a calendar for 1891, the
                    dozen or so pages of the diary bear no dates. Its comments quote or invent apothegms, which have no
                    comprehensible references to anything and hence are of no historical value.10
            
            But to return to the point made at the beginning of this essay, that for historical figures, and
                    notably twentieth-century presidents, the rating of historians is hardly infallible. In appraisals
                    of Harding there has been much error. If one looks closely at the presidency of his predecessor,
                    Woodrow Wilson, and compares it with Harding's presidency, it is clear that accomplishment lay
                    mostly in Harding's administration. A series of misfortunes nonetheless befell Harding's reputation
                    shortly after he died. There had been scandals in the Veterans' Bureau and with Teapot Dome, no
                    large affairs that in any way touched Harding, but the presidential election of 1924 made it
                    convenient for the Democrats to invest the scandals with monumental proportions. Thereafter the talk
                    of scandal turned in a different direction. Journalists such as Mark Sullivan listened to stories
                    about Cross, Russell wrote about Hodder, and everyone believed Britton. All this was colored by the
                    invention of Means. Now, seventy-five years after Harding's death, a book has appeared that brings
                    the critical accounts together for the convenience of gullible readers.
            
               
                  10 Another find is the "sealed papers" of Dr. Boone.
                        Anthony believes the Library of Congress opened the "sealed papers" of Dr.
                        Boone at his urging and special arrangement. The papers were opened, however, through the
                        intervention of Dwight M. Miller, chief archivist at the Herbert Hoover Library in West Branch, 
                            Iowa
                        . Miller knew that the 
                            Boone
                         papers, due to open twenty years after their donor's death in 1994, had remained
                        closed because the Library of Congress had lost the address of 
                            Boone
                        's nearest relative. He supplied it.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Alfred C. Kinsey: A Public/Private Life. By James H. Jones. (
                        New York
                    : W. W. Norton & Company, 1997. Pp. xx, 937. Illustrations, notes, note on
                    sources, index. $39.95.)
            Forty years ago Alfred Charles Kinsey was a name to conjure with: he either fathered the sexual
                    revolution of the 1960s or he degraded American culture in disgusting ways. Kinsey the entomologist
                    and authority on gall wasps had stressed variation. Kinsey the sexual behavior authority documented
                    sexual heterogeneity. Those who valued their sexual nature applauded him. Those who valued cultural
                    and religious constraints upon sexual activity condemned him. Attacks from the religious and
                    political right have continued into this decade. So too, do celebrations of sexual liberation and
                    variety.
            Kinsey died at the age of sixty-two in 1956. The chaos of his personality repelled and attracted as
                    did his legacy in death. Dominating others, mostly subordinates, came naturally for him. Iron-willed
                    and driven, he spent his formative scientific years pursuing every type of North American gall
                    wasp—a tiny, antlike insect. His youth he preferred to forget or recalled with
                    bitterness. A domineering father and weak mother provided adequate excuse for him to leave home and
                    pursue his own education through Bowdoin College and doctoral studies at 
                        Harvard
                    . What parenting could not nurture, homosexuality and masochism directed (p. 4).
            James H. Jones began this biography as a doctoral candidate at Indiana University. His archival work
                    appears to be exhaustive. The most valuable part of this biography deals with Kinsey's incredible
                    ability to secure foundation and institutional support for what everyone then knew to be explosively
                    controversial research. Sex and politics is a theme as American as apple pie. It has been since the
                    inception of the republic—think of the doggerel about Thomas Jefferson's sex life.
            Jones spares no sensibility in his discussion of the intimate details of Kinsey's own sexual
                    appetites. As a result, the book is a depressing read. An upright, intelligent reformer
                    metamorphoses into a harried, haggard sexual caricature. Details of his final infection and death
                    (p. 738 onward) seem ordained by a sadistic dramatist determined to illustrate the wages of sin.
                    Kinsey had since puberty inflicted pain on himself with insertions of objects into his urethra. In
                    the summer of 1954 he stood in his basement offices, placed a rope across an overhead pipe,
                    "tied a strong, tight knot around his scrotum with one end of the rope… the
                    other end he wrapped around his hand. Then, he climbed up on a chair and jumped off (p. 739). He
                    developed an infection and gradually lost his robust physical health.  He traveled and worked, but his heart enlarged and fibrillated. He died
                    on the morning on August 25, 1956.
            It becomes clear in this biography that Jones can find much to laud in Kinsey, for example, his
                    struggle to overcome bias and hatred in Victorian mores concerning sex. But he comes to deplore the
                    moral deterioration in the man. The biographer's study was influenced by the psychohistorical
                    techniques developed by Erik Erikson. Childhood development is of key importance—the
                    child is father to the man. In Kinsey's case sexual gratification was solitary, painful, and urgent.
                    Marriage and four children later, he remained driven, at odds with society's view of a proper life.
                    Toward the end of life Kinsey could approve of pedophilia. That is too much for his biographer. He
                    appears to believe that a lingering, painful death may have been cruel, but somehow it was just.
            What of Indiana University? Was this the sort of "science" that a state institution
                    ought to encourage? Kinsey had been a diligent, if methodologically outdated, zoologist specializing
                    in insects. Retooling him for pioneering work on sexual behavior in humans required some sort of
                    institutional discussion and approval. President Herman B Wells, certainly a skillful and shrewd
                    college leader, was the pivot of this decision. Wells could maneuver successfully with all the
                    constituents: legislature, interest groups, faculty, staff, and students. He backed Kinsey through
                    the late 1930s, and in 1940 foundation money supported Kinsey's research and publication. Funds came
                    from the standing committee of the National Research Council, the Committee for Research in Problems
                    of Sex. The vehicle was a course on marriage, which in turn evolved from Kinsey's courses in biology
                    for home economics majors.
            Kinsey organized a course on the family taught by a small group from various disciplines in the
                    university and this sort of thing appealed to the administration. Kinsey also organized and directed
                    the research, and gradually his group acquired a life of its own. The hallmark was an invitation to
                    students, later faculty, friends, family, and anyone else who could contribute, to come for a
                    confidential interview on all aspects of sexual behavior. Kinsey trained assistants and by the time
                    of his death cataloged many thousands of these Gallup Poll-like interviews. Initially they were
                    collected from white men, then blacks, women, prisoners, children, and through their mothers,
                    babies. Each interview could include up to three hundred questions.
            In addition Kinsey compiled an immense collection of erotica and in a stunning misuse of what is now
                    termed "human subjects," subjected his graduate students and their wives to a
                    variety of sexual encounters, some of which were filmed. From any perspective, his treatment of some
                    of his colleagues and students was unethical and manipulative. From this book it appears that
                    neither Wells nor any authority in the granting agencies learned of this activity. Enough suspicion
                    existed, however, for a skittish board of the Rockefeller 
                    
                  ALFRED C. KINSEY, C. 1949
                  Indiana University Archives, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana
               
                     Foundation—the major source of funds—to
                    deny support in 1953. The board was helped along the path of decision by a faction in congress led
                    by Joseph R. McCarthy.
            When criticism did surface, and especially after the 1948 publication of The Sexual
                        Behavior of the Human Male, Wells deflected it by insisting that the "University
                    never approves or disapproves the research findings of its experimental scientists" (p.
                    714). To the end Wells remained loyal to Kinsey's program, and when it was attacked by Catholic
                    prelates in 1953, he responded, "Indiana University stands today… firmly in
                    support of the scientific research project that has been undertaken and is being carried on by one
                    of its eminent biological scientists, Dr. Alfred C. Kinsey" (p. 713).
            These sections of the biography that examine the relationship between ethical issues and institutions
                    are most useful. Generally, institutions strive to avoid having a Kinsey in the
                    fold—nowadays it might be in reproductive biology and genetic
                    engineering—because political, religious, and social issues all raise difficult questions
                    that involve legal and budgetary support. One need only consider problems associated with genetics
                    in post-World War II 
                        Germany
                     or reproductive technology in this country today. Educational institutions in those
                    days attempted to offer a moral awareness to their students, but science cloaked some darker
                    agendas. Both national and state institutions backing Kinsey understood the dangers of their support
                    but were willing to undertake it because they recognized the importance of the issues: what is the
                    nature of sexual behavior in society, and what legal limits should be placed on criminal or
                    unsuitable activity?
            In the history of this country, society through its elected representatives often says one thing and
                    does another. By the time Kinsey published his second big book, The Sexual Behavior of
                        the Human Female (1953), financial support and his own moral fiber had eroded
                    substantially. At the time of his death three years later, the sexual revolution he had long
                    advocated had begun to take shape. Within the next decade the powerful mix of sex, drugs, war, and
                    racial integration changed America profoundly. Alfred Kinsey contributed to that
                    change—it is not yet clear quite how much.
            PIERCE C. MULLEN is professor of history emeritus at 
                        Montana
                     State University, Bozeman, 
                        Montana
                    . He has published in the history of science and is currently special features editor
                    for history in The American Journal of Medical Genetics.
            
         
         
            
               Larry Conrad of Indiana: A Biography. By Raymond H. Scheele. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, in cooperation with the IUPUI Office of Service Learning and
                    Student Voluntary Service, 1997. Pp. x, 315. Illustrations, notes, index. $29.95.)
            Larry Conrad was a central figure in Indiana Democratic politics in the 1970s, twice winning election
                    as secretary of state and  then challenging Republican Otis R.
                    Bowen for governor in 1976. Raymond H. Scheele's study is an entertaining look at Conrad's career,
                    filled with the passions and personalities of Indiana politics a quarter century ago. The study
                    divides Conrad's public life into three periods: his service on the staff to 
                        United States
                     Senator Birch E. Bayh in the 1960s, Conrad's statewide campaigns and party conflicts in
                    the 1970s, and his work representing the Simon corporate interests in 
                        Indianapolis
                     downtown revitalization in the 1980s.
            The book is at its best in telling, from an insider's perspective, the story of Conrad's remarkable
                    series of battles for political survival and control of the highly factionalized Indiana Democratic
                    party of the 1970s. The most interesting section is Scheele's description and explanation of the web
                    of circumstances that surrounded the spurious "Master Plan" created by anonymous
                    critics within Conrad's political circle. Purporting to be a campaign-planning document, the plan
                    was actually a vicious attack on Conrad's current and potential supporters—written with
                    sufficient skill to gain initial credibility with some in the media. Scheele is unable to identify
                    the plan's authors with certainty, but the search for their names and motives is as central to the
                    book as it was to Conrad's 1976 gubernatorial campaign.
            Scheele's book is more disappointing when it moves away from the Indiana story into national
                    politics. Many would argue that Conrad's most enduring contribution to American politics was the
                    text of the twenty-fifth amendment to the 
                        United States
                     Constitution, which he wrote at the request of Bayh and which deals with the question
                    of presidential disability. Yet the story of both the text of the amendment and its path to
                    ratification are not told with the same detail and relish that is found in the Master Plan
                    discussion.
            The book is subtitled "a biography." It might, however, be better classified as a
                    third person memoir. Conrad's untimely death in Europe in 1990 denied him the opportunity to assume
                    the mantle of retrospective senior statesman so often taken by Hoosier politicos. Scheele's text
                    seeks to fill that gap. The book is rich with a passionate blend of partisanship and retrospection
                    so often associated with the memoir style. Based heavily upon perceptive interviews and full of
                    entertaining anecdotes, the story often has the choppy, diffuse feel of good political dialogue. It
                    offers an insider's view of campaign offices, press conferences, and Jefferson-Jackson Day dinners
                    as it mirrors its subject's high energy levels. Scheele's work is sure to please Larry Conrad's
                    friends and provoke his critics, asking readers to evaluate the 1970s as a watershed decade in state
                    politics.
            GEORGE GEIB teaches midwestern history at 
                        Butler
                     University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana, where he enjoys incorporating his own interests in the changing dynamics of
                    local political campaigns.
         
         
         
            
               Earlham College: A History, 1847-1997. By Thomas D. Hamm. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1997. Pp. xvii, 448. Illustrations, table, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $35.00.)
            For more than a century and a half, Earlham College has been a "
                        Quaker
                     place." From its start as the Friends Boarding School, it defined its mission,
                    governed its institutional life, framed its academic vision, and molded its campus culture in
                    accordance with that self-image. Yet, as Thomas D. Hamm cogently demonstrates in this masterly
                    study, Earlham's road to maintaining its 
                        Quaker
                     identity was seldom smooth. He concludes, in fact, that the tiny institution which
                    became in 1858 "the second 
                        Quaker
                     college in the world" (p. xi) did so during a tumultuous age of "flux
                    and change" for Indiana Friends and still today finds itself "grappling with what
                    it means to be a 
                        Quaker
                     school" (p. 346). Along the way it faced endless challenges from a
                    "worldly" environment that saw the 
                        Richmond
                     college as too "countercultural," from those Friends who considered
                    it not "Quakerly" enough, and, more recently, from the strains of being church
                    affiliated while confronting what George Marsden and others call the
                    "secularization" of the American academy. Through it all, Earlham struggled
                    valiantly to sustain its cherished 
                        Quaker
                     identity.
            In relating the story of how Earlham attained that goal, Hamm describes the transformations the
                    school experienced, the leaders who guided it through them, and the traits that constituted its
                    unique character. Rather than organizing the school's history by presidencies—which he
                    correctly labels a "frightfully artificial" approach (p. 233)—the
                    author highlights those moments in Earlham's story that shaped its ethos and philosophy, offering a
                    lively entree into the way life evolved on the small campus.
            The reader first accompanies pacifist, antislavery Quakers as they journeyed from Dixie to eastern
                    Indiana in the early 1800s and founded, as a fruit of their migration, a college to provide a
                    "guarded and religious education" for their youth. During the school's first forty
                    years, however, Hoosier Friends, influenced by a powerful holiness revival, questioned how
                    "guarded" the education was at the fledgling college, since it seemed to have
                    surrendered to a culture that embraced the ungodly theories of Charles Darwin. Then, as the
                    twentieth century dawned, campus and church tussled again, this time over the school's theological
                    modernism, a liberal brand of Christianity clearly anathema to Indiana Friends. Finally, Earlham
                    confronted the hot and cold wars of midcentury, the divisive moral issues of the 1960s, and the
                    culture wars of more recent decades.
            Hamm describes each of these eras with an impressive mesh of revealing details and penetrating
                    insights. His treatment of such leading figures as religion professors Dougan Clark and Elbert
                    Russell, catalytic presidents William Dennis, Tom Jones, and Landrum Bolling, and the legendary D.
                    Elton Trueblood are colorful, yet balanced.  Equally fair are
                    his assessments of the battle between Elbert Russell and President Robert L. Kelly over the shape of
                    Earlham in the early years of this century and of the 1920s heresy trial that pitted fundamentalist
                    factions of the Yearly Meeting against the liberal Quakerism of the school's faculty.
            These confrontations dramatize the theme Hamm pursues throughout the book: the college's ability to
                    maintain and strengthen its liberal sectarian identity while still relating with grace to its more
                    conservative 
                        Quaker
                     constituency. This refrain sounds again as he discusses the growth of campus student
                    culture from the days when the school was, in one coed's view, a "
                        Quaker
                     prison" (p. 25), to its uniquely open and courageous grappling with issues of
                    peace, racial equality, and sexual orientation. Throughout, Hamm brilliantly places Earlham's story
                    in three critical contexts: American culture, 
                        Quaker
                     life, and trends in higher education.
            Solidly grounded in written and oral primary sources, highly readable and entertaining, this volume
                    is a model for the way college history should be written—with pride in the institution
                    but with the courage to face openly and frankly its trials and successes, its failures and triumphs.
            LLOYD A. HUNTER holds the Roger D. Branigin Chair in
                    History at 
                        Franklin
                     College, 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana, where he is professor of history and religion and director of American
                    Studies.
         
         
            
               Railroads of Indiana. Edited by Richard S. Simons and Francis H. Parker. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1997. Pp. x, 297. Illustrations, maps, tables, figures,
                    notes, select bibliography, index. $49.95.)
            Serious railroad scholarship commonly includes corporate histories, biographies of industry leaders,
                    and labor studies. Surprisingly few state studies are part of the literature, although the
                    University of 
                        Alabama
                     Press recently published a work on 
                        Alabama
                     railroads. Authors Richard S. Simons and Francis H. Parker have added Indiana to this
                    category.
            Simons and Parker provide a comprehensive examination of Hoosier state rails. Their coverage is
                    sensible and impressive. Major chapters examine the historical development of railroads, their
                    mature years, and the enormous restructuring that has come in the wake of partial deregulation with
                    the Staggers Act in 1980 and the on-going "merger madness" since the mid-1960s.
                    What has happened corporately in Indiana differs little from events in other states, particularly in
                    the Midwest. Indiana, like neighboring 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    , tended to be a zone of transition between East and West. Early Hoosier roads resembled
                    those in the East where the first pikes connected "inland" communities with bodies
                    of water. Later western rails frequently  preceded settlement as
                    part of a regional, even interregional system. Take, for example, construction of the 
                        Chicago
                     & Atlantic Railway, an affiliate of the Erie Railroad. Although the chicago
                    & Atlantic did not precede settlement in northern Indiana, the railroads appearance led to
                    the creation of new "railroad" towns, similar to hundreds found on the Great
                    Plains.
            In addition to a core narrative the authors review a wide variety of topics. Included are railroad
                    communities, notable bridges, tunnels, Pullman sleeping car service, motor passenger trains, special
                    passenger services, wrecks, and personalities. Although Indiana sported the second greatest mileage
                    of electric interurbans, the volume does not explore Hoosier intercity traction. As the authors
                    correctly note, there is extensive coverage, particularly in enthusiast publications, of this
                    related part to the state's rich railroad heritage.
            Simons and Parker have written a fine study. Although it might be argued that their coverage of some
                    aspects of the Indiana railroad story is too breezy, they have crafted a book that should appeal to
                    the scholar, enthusiast, and casual reader and that is enhanced by superb illustrations and a usable
                    index. A few minor errors mar the notes and bibliography. Without question, Railroads
                        of Indiana should serve as a model for this genre of scholarly railroad study.
            H. ROGER GRANT, chair of the Department of History at
                    Clemson University, Clem-son, 
                        South Carolina
                    , is the author of two recent books on railroad history and the editor-in-chief of Railroad History.
            
         
         
            
               Done and Been: Steel Rail Chronicles of American Hobos. By Gypsy Moon. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1996. Pp. xi, [199]. Illustrations, references. Clothbound,
                    $27.95; paperbound, $12.95.)
            Gypsy Moon offers a fascinating glimpse into what life might be like if one decided to ride the rails
                    rather than hold down a desk. As she demonstrates in her introduction, there is almost as much
                    disagreement on the origin of the word "hobo" as there is about the true
                    definition of "Hoosier" (p. 5). Some hold the word to be a derivation of the Latin
                        homo bonus meaning good man. Others maintain that the word
                    was used for the first time after the Civil War when soldiers walking through the countryside would
                    explain that they were "homeward bound." There are also those who insist that the
                    term comes from the fact that some itinerant travelers played an oboe, perhaps in the tradition of
                    the fabled Pied Piper. Another explanation is that these wanderers sought short-term garden work as
                    "hoe boys."
            When not traversing the countryside, Gypsy Moon maintains a home in 
                        Brown county
                    . When returning home, her port of arrival is not the 
                        Indianapolis
                     International Airport or Union Station. Rather, she arrives at the freight yards in 
                        Avon
                     on the west side of the city.  She describes the
                    techniques required to avoid railroad guards and police officers when leaving the freight yard. It
                    is an ironic reversal of the security procedures associated with boarding a flight.
            Not all the travel is by rail. Hitchhiking also is an important mode of transportation for the modern
                    hobo. Gypsy Moon recounts the generosity of a Japanese family in offering a lift along the James
                    Shocknessy Turnpike in 
                        Ohio
                     as she and a companion were making their way to 
                        Cleveland
                    .
            In addition, Gypsy Moon offers oral history sketches of several of the most colorful hobos of this
                    century, including Steamtrain Maury, who was elected national king of the hobos five times. Other
                    hobos profiled include Tumbleweed, Reefer Charlie, and Ramblin' Rudy.
            The final section of the book offers several hobo recipes, including Fry Pan Jack's Gastronomical
                    Extravaganza. This culinary delight involves blending onions, garlic, green peppers, partially
                    boiled potatoes, and hard-boiled eggs with fried hamburger and sausage.
            At the end of the book is a useful glossary of hobo terms. Here, for example, one learns that a
                    "Cinder bull" is a term to alert hobos to the presence of a railroad police
                    officer. There also is a chart depicting signs of the road. A zero, it turns out, means
                    "There is no reason to stay here." There is, however, reason to read this book if
                    one wants to learn more about the unconventional travel habits of those who choose the hobo life.
            CHARLES M. COFFEY is director of communication research
                    for the Indiana Department of Administration and the governor's representative on the INTELENET
                    Commission. He previously served as director of alumni affairs, Indiana University-Purdue University 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
         
         
            
               A New History of 
                            Kentucky
                        . By Lowell H. Harrison and James C. Klotter. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1997. Pp. mi, 533. Maps, illustrations, tables, appendices, selected bibliography,
                    index. $34.95.)
             Lowell H. Harrison and James C. Klotter have been busy lately setting 
                        Kentucky
                    's historical house in order. Five years after they served as associate editors of The 
                            Kentucky
                         Encyclopedia (1992), five years after Harrison traced 
                  
                            Kentucky
                        's Road to Statehood (1992), and one year after Klotter produced 
                  
                            Kentucky
                        : Portrait in Paradox, 1900-1950 (1996), the two historians have collaborated
                    in writing the first comprehensive history of the state in sixty years. The standard history of the
                    state had long been A History of 
                            Kentucky
                        
                (1937) by Thomas D. Clark. Harrison and Klotter's work now becomes the new
                    standard account of 
                        Kentucky
                    's past. It reflects the challenges and benefits of writing the histories of states and
                    state-level history.
            Telling 
                        Kentucky
                    's story, the authors believe, not only contributes to a deeper understanding of the
                    nation's heritage but also helps define the state's identity. 
                        Kentucky
                     was the first state west of  the Appalachian
                    Mountains, a border state during the Civil War, and a state whose residents generally regarded
                    themselves as southern. Harrison and Klotter faced the formidable task of telling this story while
                    coordinating dozens of subjects from the 
                        Cumberland Gap
                     to the Ohio River and involving a cast of thousands, from pioneer
                    Daniel 
                        Boone
                     to suffragist Madeline McDowell Breckinridge to boxing champion Muhammad Ali. The
                    authors also show how state history can recognize both the prominent and the voiceless, include
                    government and politics as well as economics and culture, illuminate issues involving race and
                    gender, and incorporate geographic areas usually overlooked.
            The result is a largely successful history of 
                        Kentucky
                    . Harrison surveys the period before 1865, while Klotter covers the years from the Civil
                    War to the mid-1990s. Both authors rely mainly on secondary sources, make politics the centerpiece
                    of their narratives, and occasionally offer wry commentary.
            There are, however, some contrasts between the two authors' perspectives. The chapters written by
                    Harrison reflect the many years he has lived in the western part of the state. It is a solid,
                    traditional narrative, emphasizing the process by which white men in central and western 
                        Kentucky
                     settled the land, established the state, and battled Indians, Britain, 
                        France
                    , Mexico, 
                        Spain
                    , and often each other. Klotter more directly addresses recent scholarship and is more
                    attentive to the "many Kentuckys" (p. 219) that have appeared over time. Chapters
                    in which he takes the long view, such as one entitled "Bourbon Barons, Tobacco Tycoons, and
                    King Coal, 1865-1995," are particularly effective.
            Indiana readers will find little material in this study that specifically refers to their state and
                    its relationship to 
                        Kentucky
                    . Harrison and Klotter have nonetheless established a model for other state histories.
            JOHN M. GLEN, professor of history, Ball State University, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, is working on a history of the war on poverty in Appalachia and a history of
                    Indiana since 1945.
         
         
            
               Fifty Years of Segregation: Black Higher Education in 
                            Kentucky
                        , 1904-1954. By John A. Hardin. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1997. Pp. [vii], 182. Illustrations, appendix, tables, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $29.95.)
            By now, it is a familiar story: the promises associated with the abolition of slavery and a
                    "reconstructed" South gave way to dependence, oppression, and segregation. African
                    Americans, even in border states such as 
                        Kentucky
                    , confronted and wrestled with the second-class citizenship that attended their separate
                    place in society. In this slim volume John A. Hardin focuses on one piece of the tragic history,
                    higher education for black Kentuckians in the first half of the twentieth century.
            
            He begins with the passage of the Day Law in 1904, the state legislation that extended the
                    prohibition against teaching blacks and whites in the same public institution to cover private
                    schools, specifically 
                        Berea
                     College. The 
                        Berea
                     story has been told often and more informatively elsewhere, and a substantial body of
                    work by historian George C. Wright has previously shed much light on the black experience in the
                    Bluegrass State. Hardin's work, therefore, does not really break new ground.
            With the removal of 
                        Berea
                     College from the picture, Hardin identifies three primary players in the evolution of
                    black higher education: the educated black elite in 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
                State
                    College (University), and, of course, white politicians. 
                        Louisville
                     blacks, it seems, almost always set the agenda for discussion, especially through
                    persistent litigation in the later years. The issues evolved from the type of curriculum (industrial
                    or academic) in black institutions, to the bumpy rise of 
                        Kentucky
                     State as the state-supported college, to a demand that blacks and
                    whites should have equal (if separate) opportunities, to, finally, a series of escalating challenges
                    to the Day Law itself. The author tells this latter story well, but his volume is so thin that it
                    often misses opportunities to suggest how the 
                        Kentucky
                     experience fits into a broader context. The intensely political nature of segregated
                    state institutions, for example, is consistent with that in other southern states. But the impact of
                    poor quality education from political manipulation is magnified in 
                        Kentucky
                     by the absence of private black institutions. Black leaders in 
                        Kentucky
                    , therefore, were often educated elsewhere, such as in Indiana, 
                        Ohio
                    , and 
                        Michigan
                    .
            The strength of Fifty Years of Segregation is, ironically, not in what it tells
                    about segregated higher education in 
                        Kentucky
                     but in its informative documentation of the demise of segregation in the 1940s and
                    early 1950s.
            LESTER C. LAMON is professor of history and vice
                    chancellor for academic affairs, Indiana University, 
                        South Bend
                    . His published work has focused on blacks in the South, especially the black experience
                    in 
                        Tennessee
                    .
         
         
            
               Kinship With the Land: Regionalist Thought in 
                            Iowa
                        , 1894-1942. By E. Bradford Burns. (
                        Iowa City
                    : University of 
                        Iowa
                     Press, 1996. Pp. xii, 199. Illustrations, notes, index. $27.95.)
            In 1971, near the end of a distinguished career in southern history, Avery Craven described his
                    lifelong desire to write the history of his 
                        Iowa
                     hometown. After more than fifty years of writing about the South, the Civil War, and
                    the clash of sectional interests on the national stage, Craven was haunted by the deeper challenge
                    of returning to his native soil to unearth the "total history" of one small place,
                    and he regretted that this ambition would likely remain a "History Still
                    Unwritten." Craven's urge to return to and write about his home  place is paralleled by fellow Iowan, E. Bradford Burns, who capped a
                    distinguished career in Latin American history with a poignant paean to the land and folk of his
                    native state. Echoing T. S. Eliot's belief that "the end of all our exploring/Will be to
                    arrive where we started/And know the place for the first time," Burns pays homage to his
                    starting place in Kinship With the Land: Regionalist Thought in 
                            Iowa
                        , 1894-1942. Although this historical homecoming lacks the Braudellian depth
                    and critical bite of Craven's project, students of American regionalism, the Midwest, and 
                        Iowa
                     can rejoice that Burns finished this insightful book just before his untimely death in
                    1996.
            
               Kinship With the Land helps fill a gap in the recent rediscovery of American
                    regionalism. After thriving in the 1920s and 1930s, American regionalism fell into a long sleep.
                    Between the publication of Merrill Jensen's Regionalism in America in 1951 and
                    Joel Garreau's The Nine Nations of North America in 1981, regionalism was largely
                    scorned as an irrelevant force in American life, only to resurface at the end of the century as
                    corporate globalism engendered a counter tide of pluralism and as people sought more intimate
                    sources of identity than the global village or the nation-state. Economists, political scientists,
                    and environmentalists are again interested in the spatial variations of American culture, and scores
                    of "new regional" historians have focused most of their attention on New 
                        England
                    , the South, and the West. The Midwest—that other great quadrant of the
                    American land and psyche—is often forgotten by new regionalists, some of whom, for
                    example, have produced a sweeping manifesto entitled All Over the Map: Rethinking
                        American Regions, which goes everywhere on the map but the Midwest.
            Burns's book draws attention to the elusive heartland. Although flashier places continue to attract
                    most new regionalists, a few scholars, including James Shortridge, William Cronon, James H. Madison,
                    Andrew Cayton, and Peter Onuf, have recently explored the shifting meanings of the Midwest within a
                    national context. Burns has earned a belated place in this small group of "new"
                    midwestern historians by concentrating on the rise and fall of regional consciousness within one
                    state during the half century before World War II. More focused and celebratory than the others,
                    Burns uncovers a vigorous flowering of local culture at the heart of the heart of the
                    country—a vibrant rebirth reminiscent of New 
                        England
                    's "Golden Day" during the half century before the Civil War. By
                    carefully describing the emergence of 
                        Iowa
                     regionalism from the 1890s to the 1940s, Kinship With the Land
                    illuminates at least two important areas in regional studies: the pivotal moment when a restless
                    frontier becomes a settled region and the role that artists and intellectuals play in shaping the
                    collective identity of that new place.
            From the publication of Hamlin Garland's Crumbling Idols in 1894 to Grant Wood's
                    death in 1942, 
                        Iowa
                     became a seedbed of regionalism. A number of factors in the 1890s—including
                    the complete settlement  of the land, the state's inclusion in
                    the global marketplace, inexorable modernization, urbanization, and industrialization—
                    sparked intense "questioning of people's relationship with each other and with their
                    environment" (p. 8). A legion of local artists and intellectuals responded to these
                    changes, and "writing and creating like souls possessed" (p. 74), they presumably
                    voiced the feelings of the folk. Eminent regionalists Hamlin Garland, Josiah Royce, Ruth Suckow, and
                    Grant Wood figure prominently in Burns's narrative, while a host of others play significant roles.
                    Journalists John T. Frederick and Frank Luther Mott, poets Jay Sigmund and Paul Engle, novelists
                    Herbert Quick, Margaret Wilson, and Carl 
                        Van
                     Vetchen, artists J. N. "Ding" Darling and Alma Broulik (whose sturdy
                    prints appear throughout the text), and literary coteries in 
                        Iowa City
                    , Cedar Rapids, Stone City, Grinnell, Muscatine, and other towns—all
                    contributed to the regional flowering that faded in the glare of World War II.
            E. Bradford Burns deserves praise for returning home and eulogizing an episode of regionalism that
                    might otherwise have been forgotten. His narrative reaffirms and resurrects the work of many worthy
                    regionalists, and it explores the relationship between intellectuals and the folk. His portrait of a
                    state bursting with creativity and pride of place projects a compelling image of regional renewal
                    for our postmodern world. Yet to stand as a complete model for renewal, Kinship With
                        the Land needs to move beyond nostalgia to the darker corners of 
                        Iowa
                    's past that Garland, Suckow, and Jane Smiley know so well. Avery Craven felt that the
                    unfinished history of his 
                        Iowa
                     home would reveal people who were "tough, self-reliant, ruthless, destructive,
                    wasteful, acquisitive, and dreamers of sorts"— improvident folk who
                    "were quite unfitted to live in the world they had created." Although the book
                    lacks the critical edge that would make it a regional masterpiece, readers can nonetheless be
                    pleased that Burns completed his career with this loving and lovely tribute to his starting point.
            MICHAEL STEINER is professor and chair of American studies
                    at 
                        California
                     State University, Fullerton, where he teaches courses on regionalism, environmental
                    history, the built environment, and folk culture. His most recent publications are Many
                        Wests: Place, Culture, & Regional Identity (with David Wrobel, 1997) and
                    "Frontierland as Tomorrowland: Walt Disney and the Architectural Packaging of the Mythic
                    West" 
                  
                            Montana
                        : The Magazine of Western History (Spring, 1998).
         
         
            
               Cahokia and the Archaeology of Power. By Thomas E. Emerson. (
                        Tuscaloosa
                    : University of 
                        Alabama
                     Press, 1997. Pp. xv, 317. Figures, tables, references, index. Paperbound,
                    $29.95.)
            Cahokia, past and present, can be discussed in superlatives: home of the largest earthen mound in
                    North America—so large that its status as a feat of human engineering was denied for
                    decades; centerpoint of the largest, most dense population of farmers in pre-historic  eastern North America; place of at least one episode of unmatched
                    conspicuous consumption and human sacrifice in the first century of the current millennia;
                    intellectual focus of the largest archaeological project in North America since those undertaken by
                    the Works Progress Administration during the Great Depression.
            The amount of archaeological effort devoted to the preservation and exploration of Cahokia has, with
                    two major exceptions, never been equal to the complexity of its remains or to the forces that sought
                    to destroy it. After all, the central part of the Cahokia site proper covers almost two square
                    kilometers and contained almost 120 platform mounds—at least that number decremented by
                    the number destroyed by drive-in theaters and strip-mall parking lots or turned into road fill. The
                    first exception is provided by a small corps of dedicated citizens and archaeologists who have
                    worked diligently to preserve and interpret a century of piecemeal archaeological research in what
                    could be called "downtown Cahokia." Their efforts have been rewarded finally by a
                    modern museum with skilled curatorial and interpretive staff. The second exception encompasses the
                    FA1270 archaeological project, the superb program of excavation, analysis, and publication that
                    preceded the construction of an interstate highway that was to bypass 
                        St. Louis
                     on the 
                        Illinois
                     side of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . Collectively, this project focused upon what could be termed "suburban
                    Cahokia." The author has had a major role in these archaeological excavations, their
                    subsequent descriptive publications, and the variety of specialized analyses and papers that have
                    come from them. His publication at hand offers yet a third level of synthesis and scholarship; it is
                    his attempt, largely successful, to write a cultural history of Cahokia and its environs from the
                    tenth through the fourteenth centuries.
            Therein Emerson constructs a theoretical and historical argument. The first, based in the work of
                    French sociologist Pierre Bourdieu and his nation of habitus (never mind that
                    Norbert Elias got there first) and the British sociologist Anthony Giddens's concept of
                    "structuration" is to seek a symbolic and cultural warrant for prehistory. Put
                    another way, he seeks agency rather than structure as the proper conceptual basis for writing
                    prehistory. In this task he devalues the role of human ecology, human geography, and other
                    "positivist tools" used by prehistorians over the last several decades. The second
                    is to look at the American Bottoms from approximately AD 900 to 1400 as a cultural landscape
                    suffused with symbolic "power" and competing polities of varying size and
                    complexity. He explores settlements, architecture within settlements, burials interred within
                    settlements, and the symbols associated with these remains to construct a changing architecture of
                    power.
            These empirical data and symbolic measures are used to construct a narrative of the later prehistory
                    of the American Bottoms. The basic story involves an agricultural population clustered around  various civic and ceremonial centers around AD 1000. Over the
                    next century, Cahokia grew in population and in symbolic power and did so at the expense of the
                    rural settlements; for the century thereafter the hinterlands grew but in concert with Cahokia.
                    Certainly the placement of public architecture and a coherent iconography would suggest monopoly and
                    manipulation of "cult" symbols and their associated referents by the elite at
                    Cahokia and the few in the hinterlands. The decline of Cahokia as a paramount place begins around AD
                    1200 and is complete by AD 1300. The rural population decline set in a hundred years later and was
                    complete by AD 1500.
            The strength of this monograph is the analysis of the rise, decline, resurrection and reorganization,
                    and final fall of the rural settlements. An equally valuable part of this work is the presentation
                    of the analysis of the iconography of "sacred ceramics" (called Ramey Incised) and
                    sophisticated sculpted statuary found in the rural settlements. These two lines of discussion and
                    analysis result in the author's model of the architectonics of power in the prehistory of Cahokia.
                    In the end, agency has not trumped structure but has been considered an essential part of
                    structuring.
            Cahokia, despite being in the cultural-historical category labeled "Mississippian,"
                    is very much a one-off culture and society, as are all Mississippian polities. There are proximate
                    comparisons, such as the Kincaid site and phase on the Ohio River in southern 
                        Illinois
                     and the Angel site and phase near 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana. There is even some Ramey Incised pottery in the Angel site collections. Yet
                    after all the comparisons Cahokia and the archaeology of the American Bottoms stands alone, worthy
                    of superlatives.
            CHRISTOPHER S. PEEBLES is professor of anthropology and
                    director of the Glenn A. Black Laboratory of Archaeology, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . He has been a practicing archaeologist for thirty five years and has led excavations
                    in the Southeast and Midwest as well as in the northern Netherlands.
         
         
            
               The Indians' New South: Cultural Change in the Colonial Southeast. By
                    James Axtell. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1997. Pp. xiv, 102. Map, illustrations, notes, index.
                    Clothbound, $22.95; paperbound, $9.95.)
            Indians in the southeastern part of the 
                        United States
                     have been mostly invisible in American history textbooks. Pocahontas has become the
                    epitome of most Americans' ideas about the interaction of Indians and European colonists in American
                    history. Because so many stereotypes of American Indians come from accounts of early New 
                        England
                     (Thanksgiving and the 
                        Boston
                     Tea Party), students and teachers in secondary and high schools throughout the 
                        United States
                     and particularly in the South remain largely unaware of the history of the contemporary
                    Indian tribes living virtually in their backyards.
            
            James Axtell's book is an excellent brief introduction to the history of the Indian presence in the
                    South and the complexities of Indian-white interaction during the early period of cultural contact.
                    Axtell is one of the scholars who addresses the importance of culture in this early contact period,
                    and he has written with grace and deep insight into the differences in world views, European and
                    native, that shaped the earliest history of North America. In this small volume of essays based on
                    his Walter Lynwood Fleming Lectures in Southern History at 
                        Louisiana
                     State University, he distills a wealth of scholarship into an elegant synthesis of the
                    history of Indians in the Southeast.
            In the first of the four chapters, Axtell deals with the basic elements of culture common to
                    southeastern tribes and describes the disruptive effects of diseases introduced by the first Spanish
                    entradas. He then discusses the effects of Spanish and English colonization on the native peoples,
                    paying special attention to the impact of missionary efforts. His third essay examines native
                    responses to Christianity and the new social and economic system introduced by European
                    colonization.
            Axtell draws on a variety of sources—archaeological, primary historical documents, and
                    ethnographic studies—to paint a coherent picture of the cultures of southeastern Indians
                    before European contact and to portray the impact of the changes wrought in native life after
                    contact. He uses archaeology to show how the beauty of the material culture of precontact Indian
                    communities was associated with social status. His use of quotations from primary sources gives a
                    flavor of European attitudes toward American Indians. He describes how native people adopted
                    European goods and adapted them to their own use.
            The book should be useful to a wide range of readers. Axtell's employment of primary materials will
                    lead interested persons to the sources of scholarly work on Indian-white interactions. In addition
                    he provides a succinct overview of the circumstances in which Indians encountered Europeans and
                    acknowledges that the native peoples possess a precontact history by reference to archaeological
                    sources and a discussion of native world views.
            CLARA SUE KIDWELL is director of Native
                    American Studies and professor of history, University of 
                  Oklahoma, Norman, Oklahoma
               . Her research focuses on the history of Choctaw
                    Indians in 
                        Mississippi
                     and 
                        Oklahoma
                    .
         
         
            
               Slavery and the American West: The Eclipse of Manifest Destiny and the Coming of the
                        Civil War. By Michael A. Morrison. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1997. Pp. xii, 396. Notes, select bibliography, index. $49.95.)
            Michael A. Morrison's new book on slavery and the territories argues that differences over the
                    "peculiar institution" did not play a  crucial
                    role in the expansionist debate, at least not until the late 1840s. Prior to that consensus, appeals
                    to the nation's "manifest destiny" and a two-party system resistant to
                    sectionalization effectively contained slavery-based challenges to expansionism. The product of
                    voluminous research into the writings and speeches of a wide range of antebellum political
                    luminaries, Slavery and the American West seeks "to root expansion and
                    western settlement within the context of Jack-sonian politics" and "to explain how
                    specifically the territorial issue contributed to the fragmentation and sectionalization of the two
                    party system" (pp. 5, 6).
            Morrison portrays the Jacksonian Democrats as apostles of liberty who saw territorial expansion as a
                    means of expanding freedom even as they denied the power of the federal government to interfere with
                    the process. The party's "long-held belief in the genius not of the government as such but
                    of the American people" (p. 99) put it at odds with those, primarily Whigs, whose
                    interpretation of the revolutionary legacy envisioned both a more activist role for the federal
                    government and a more gradualist approach to expansion. Not until the territorial debates of
                    1848-1850 "exposed the salience of" slavery, "the single institution that
                    separated the North and the South (p. 98), did a distinctively sectionalist aspect enter the
                    controversy. Morrison disputes vigorously the notion of a "conspiracy" by either
                    the North or South to deny the other a role in the government and denies the existence of a southern
                    "slave power" that sought to maintain its dominance by alliances with subservient
                    northern allies.
            In order to sustain his thesis that differences over slavery in the territories did not become a
                    critical issue until the late 1840s, Morrison, not altogether persuasively, casts the 
                        Missouri
                     crisis as rooted in differing conceptions of the role of federal power rather than in
                    arguments about slavery. More troubling is his claim that John Tyler's 1844 
                        Texas
                     annexation treaty "introduced formally and permanently a new issue into the
                    American political system: territorial expansion" (p. 14). This argument ignores the fact
                    that as early as 1819 the Transcontinental Treaty explicitly excluded 
                        Texas
                     because of the threat to national unity represented by the acquisition of so much
                    potential slave territory, as President James 
                        Monroe
                     explained in 1820 in letters to Thomas Jefferson and Andrew Jackson. 
                        Texas
                     remained a political hot potato (if at times placed on the back burner of American
                    politics) until finally brought into the Union through the constitutionally dubious means of
                    congressional joint resolution.
            Denying the centrality of the slavery controversy until the late 1840s does not explain why Congress
                    between 1836 and 1844 refused to receive petitions on the question by imposing the "gag
                    rule," an issue Morrison does not examine. Mentioned only in passing is John Quincy Adams,
                    whose role in raising the slavery question in Congress has recently been detailed in Arguing About Slavery: The Great Battle in the 
                            United States
                         Congress (1996) by William L. Miller. Slavery
                    
                    and the American West is a book of formidable erudition and scope but one whose
                    persuasiveness is limited by the views and events it fails to consider.
            WILLIAM EARL WEEKS is lecturer in
                    history, San Diego State University, San Diego, 
                        California
                    .
         
         
            
               The Men Stood Like Iron: How the Iron Brigade Won Its Name. By Lance J.
                    Herdegen. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1997. Pp. [xiii], 271. Maps, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $24.95.)
            
               On Many a Bloody Field: Four Years in the Iron Brigade. By Alan D. Gaff. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1996. Pp. xviii, 499. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $29.95.)
            Of all the brigades that comprised the great armies of 1861-1865, few acquired nicknames that
                    survived their disbanding at war's end. A major exception to this general rule is the "Iron
                    Brigade" of mid-Westerners that achieved undying fame in the Army of the Potomac. Formed in
                    August, 1861, the brigade soon stabilized its composition as the 2nd, 6th, and 7th 
                        Wisconsin
                     Infantry regiments and the 19th Indiana Infantry regiment. The only completely
                    midwestern brigade in the eastern theater, it was otherwise notable only for its vigorous refusal to
                    conform to the norms of soldiering prevalent in the East. In an effort to improve his command's
                    deportment, Brigadier General John Gibbon instituted several disciplinary measures, including the
                    requirement that brigade members wear the high-crowned regular army dress hat. On the afternoon of
                    August 28, 1862, Gibbon's "Black Hat Brigade" stumbled into a vicious firefight at
                    Brawner's Farm near Groveton, 
                        Virginia
                    , a battle that changed its reputation forever but cost it one-third of its strength.
                    Relatively uninvolved at Second Manasses, the unit played a much more significant role in the 
                        Antietam
                     campaign. In a stiff fight at Turner's Gap the brigade came directly under the eye of
                    George McClellan. At 
                        Antietam
                     it again took horrendous casualties in the famous "cornfield" and
                    shortly thereafter began to style itself the "Iron Brigade." Reinforced by another
                    western unit, the 24th 
                        Michigan
                    , the brigade ultimately achieved immortality at great cost during the first day at 
                        Gettysburg
                    . At a much reduced strength the Iron Brigade survived into 1864, but Grant's punishing
                    Overland campaign eventually caused its amalgamation with other units at Petersburg.
            Alan Nolan first told the story of the Iron Brigade in a classic work published in 1961. Now Alan D.
                    Gaff and Lance J. Herdegen add new titles to the unit's already extensive bibliography. Both authors
                    have trod this ground before, Gaff in a book on the Brawner's Farm fight and Herdegen in a work on
                    the 6th 
                        Wisconsin
                     at 
                        Gettysburg
                    .  Gaffs On Many a Bloody Field
                    essays to be a history of Company B, 19th Indiana Infantry, the 
                        Richmond City
                     Greys, but in reality it is a detailed history of the regiment itself. Using a wealth
                    of personal accounts, Gaff portrays the regiment's entire war service: its first year of inaction;
                    its decimation at Brawner's Farm, 
                        Antietam
                    , and 
                        Gettysburg
                    ; its amalgamation with other units and ultimate disappearance. At every turn the
                    stories told are personal. This effective technique causes the reader to identify strongly with
                    individuals, rejoicing for them as they survive battles and rise in rank, weeping for them as they
                    are grievously wounded or killed. The author's material does not permit a focus on Company B, but he
                    remains with it whenever he can. The fact that Company B returned to Indiana in 1865 with only ten
                    survivors of its original 115 men makes the human cost of the Civil War at the community level
                    gruesomely apparent. Few modern studies portray the life, internal economy, and death of a Civil War
                    regiment as well as this one. On Many a Bloody Field is a superb addition to the
                    literature of Indiana's participation in the conflict.
            Herdegen's The Men Stood Like Iron, although well written and handsomely produced,
                    is less successful than Gaffs work as a contribution to Civil War scholarship. Much like Nolan
                    earlier, Herdegen has chosen to emphasize the brigade's transformation from indiscipline to heroism
                    in its first eighteen months. While Gaff wanted to study a company but was forced to examine a
                    regiment, Herdegen proposed to study a brigade but let his sources confine him primarily to the 6th 
                        Wisconsin
                     regiment. The book begins with 
                        Gettysburg
                    , then flashes back to 1861 and carries the brigade forward until the post-
                        Antietam
                     army reorganization. Indeed, the Iron Brigade appellation stems from this period
                    (although its exact origins are somewhat unclear), but the unit's marches and battles have been
                    recounted with clearer focus elsewhere. Inadvertently, Herdegen's narrative leaves the impression
                    that the Iron Brigade was the 6th 
                        Wisconsin
                     and a few friends who rotated in and out of the saga. Those interested in Indiana's
                    Civil War history will find little of interest here except a gracefully written but episodic and
                    partial account of the war service of a famous brigade.
            WILLIAM GLENN ROBERTSON is deputy
                    director and chief of staff rides, Combat Studies Institute, 
                        United States
                     Army Command and General Staff College, Ft. Leaven-worth, 
                        Kansas
                    . He continues to work on a study of the Chickamauga Campaign.
         
         
            
               Houses of God: Region, Religion, and Architecture in the 
                            United States
                        . By Peter W. Williams. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1997. Pp. xv, 321. Illustrations, bibliographies, indices. $34.95.)
            The material culture of American religion has a topography that spans an extraordinary range of
                    architectural forms and a wide  array of definitions of the
                    sacred. In his book Houses of God, Peter W. Williams sweeps through the inventory
                    of built form in the lands now contained within the political boundaries of the 
                        United States
                    . But this work is not just a catalog of meritorious religious structures. Williams's
                    authoritative scholarship in American studies verges into anthropology, cultural geography,
                    architectural history, sociology, and religion. He carefully distinguishes between the religious and
                    the sacred, whether in the discussion of the character of a city such as 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., or in the development of 
                        Quaker
                     building. In this way, he provides a valuable, often enlightening context for the
                    well-chosen examples of the sacred environments that he examines.
            The guiding principle for the book, and the one that makes a potentially unwieldy work manageable, is
                    clear from the title: regionalism. Rather than move diachronically through the entire 
                        United States
                    , century by century, Williams organizes the country into regions that are both
                    culturally and geographically distinct. Some of them are predictable enough. For example, New 
                        England
                    , the Mid-Atlantic states, and the South are areas that have long been viewed as
                    recognizable cultures. Others are refreshingly unexpected: the Old Northwest, the Great Plains and
                    the Mountains, the Spanish Borderlands, and the Pacific Rim are categories that afford new critical
                    insight into their respective material cultures. This organizational framework offers an appropriate
                    structure for considering American religious history and its resultant architectural expression. It
                    also encourages the inclusion of native pre-European religious cultures that were housed in built
                    forms of many kinds.
            Another important feature that distinguishes the book is Williams's discussion of lost monuments that
                    were important at the time of their construction and that implemented their users' ideas about
                    theology, social action, or worship. Discussions of buildings that preceded their still extant
                    successors (
                        St. Louis
                     Cathedral, 
                  New Orleans, Louisiana
               ) also add considerable depth to the
                    text. This feature of the book conveys the impermanence of material culture and suggests that the
                    preservation of important monuments usually happens by intention, rarely by chance.
            If the book has a problematic area, it is in its illustrations. Although some of the photographs are
                    interesting as historic documents and others are taken by renowned photographers, as a group they
                    are too few and are not integrated well into the discussion. In some cases, they describe buildings
                    treated only briefly (the 
                        Washington
                     Mosque); in other cases long discussions lack any photographic support (the Cathedral
                    of St. John the Divine, 
                        New York City
                    ). The mission church of San Jose y San Miguel de Aguayo in San Antonio is cited as the
                    most architecturally significant of the five San Antonio missions but is not illustrated. There are
                    few photographs of the interior spaces of the buildings discussed, even when their interiors are
                    liberally treated in the text. Where interiors do receive illustration  (Unitarian Church, 
                  Charleston, South Carolina
               ) or
                    when both interior and exterior are presented (Temple Beth Elohim, 
                        Charleston
                    ), the difference is emphatic.
            Despite these shortcomings, the book is readable and accessible to scholars and interested lay
                    readers alike. It can be used as a guidebook and reference as well as a coherent study. Williams
                    provides extensive bibliographies of classic and recent sources at the end of each chapter. He also
                    supplies a good index of names and a catalog of buildings that, for easy reference, are arranged
                    according to religious denomination and geographic location. This book promises to become an
                    important resource for anyone interested in the American sacred.
            ROBERT BENSON is chair of the Department of Architecture,
                    Miami University, 
                  Oxford, Ohio
               , and an architectural historian and critic. He has
                    written about American architectural journalism, the modern movement in American architecture, and
                    American commercial and industrial architecture.
         
         
            
               Protestantism, Capitalism, and Nature in America. By Mark Stoll. (Albuquerque:
                    University of 
                        New Mexico
                     Press, 1997. Pp. xii, 276. Notes, bibliography, index. $50.00.)
            That Dave Foreman, leader of the radical environmental group Earth First!, could have anything in
                    common with James Watt, his adversary at Ronald Reagan's Department of the Interior, defies
                    contemporary political expectations. That apparent contradiction, however, encapsulates the goal of
                    Mark Stoll's Protestantism, Capitalism, and Nature in America to "shed
                    light on [the] persistent blind spot" of "Protestantism's contribution to
                    industrial capitalism and the environmental movement" (p. xi). Stoll's thesis is that the
                    remarkable cohabitation in the 
                        United States
                     of the world's largest and most powerful environmental movement and the largest and
                    most powerful economy derived from a shared western and Protestant heritage that shaped the modern
                    view of nature in certain persistent and consistent ways.
            Stoll summarizes, from a complex set of Protestant attitudes, two contrasting positions on the use of
                    nature in the western tradition. The first challenged humankind to remake the earth as the home of
                    humanity. In the 
                        United States
                     this view contributed to a dynamic economic and enterpreneurial spirit that promoted
                    the use of land and natural resources to improve the material quality of human life. The second
                    position deemed the earth as a fallen Eden that humans must maintain, and even rebuild, as a temple
                    of Gad. This ideal stimulated a counterpoint that argued for the preservation of nature as a
                    sanctuary for the sublime and a reserve for human spiritual improvement. Adherents of each view came
                    to see the mission of the 
                        United States
                     as the actualization of their ideals. The origins of these views in Neo-Platonism,
                    natural theology, modern economic theory, 
                        Puritan
                    
                     theology, and rambunctious American enterpreneurship form the
                    first section of the book. Stoll then devotes the remainder of the volume to a series of brief
                    biographies that trace the lineage of these contrasting views from the Middle Ages into the late
                    twentieth century. From Anne Bradstreet and Edward Johnson in the seventeenth century, to Joseph
                    Smith and William Gilpin in the nineteenth century, to James Watt, Annie Dillard, and Dave Foreman
                    in our own time, Stoll presents a fascinating summary of the transmission of a set of attitudes and
                    their consequences. These short biographies, which form the backbone of the book, are fascinating
                    and well written. They also allow the reader, once past Stoll's initial thematic overview, the
                    freedom to browse at will.
            The sweep of Stoll's book is both its strength and its weakness. Its breadth demonstrates clearly the
                    persistence of certain core ideas in both western and American intellectual history. Yet such
                    coverage in just under two hundred pages forces oversimplification that Stoll recognizes and
                    acknowledges. This book also cuts very much against the grain of contemporary scholarship. Against
                    the current focus on race, class, gender, and ethnicity in a social context, Stoll writes of the
                    intellectual history of mostly dead, white Protestants. In an age whose radical denizens malign the
                    western intellectual tradition, Stoll derives an important piece of contemporary radicalism from
                    that very tradition. Finally, where today's scholars prefer "thick description" of
                    small social groups or brief periods, he lays a cable over two thousand years, linking modern
                    beliefs to the Old Testament, Neo-Platonism, and the Puritans. This book's most important
                    contributions, as a result, are to reintroduce balance to contemporary historiography by reminding
                    readers of both the value of intellectual history and the persistent importance of Protestantism in
                    shaping some of the predominant issues of an age that many perceive as purely secular.
            DANIEL H. JONES, a businessman who lives and works in
                            
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , is currently rewriting his dissertation on religion and
                    science in the writings of John Wesley Powell for publication.
         
         
            
               A Handful of Emeralds: On Patrol with the Hanna in the Postwar
                        Pacific. By Joseph C. Meredith. (
                        Annapolis
                    , Md.: Naval Institute Press, 1997. Pp. xii, 216. Maps, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $32.95.)
            This tidy, often lyrical, memoir of life aboard the destroyer escort Hanna as it
                    plied the relatively uncharted islands of the "South Seas" is published by the
                    Naval Institute Press. Joseph C. Meredith, who joined the navy in 1943 and subsequently served
                    during the Korean War and as a liaison to NATO forces, has written a stylish evocation of a brief
                    tour of duty in the Pacific.
            
            Captain Meredith and the Hanna were assigned to "conduct surveillance and
                    reconnaissance" of the Carolines, Marianas, Volcanos, and Bonins during 1953 and 1954 (p.
                    2). Along the way they charted the seas, took part in search and rescue missions, and kept an eye
                    out for fishermen poaching in restricted waters.
            But this is no dry recitation of sea duty, no mere travelogue. Meredith's sense of history enlivens
                    this gentle book. Obviously already smitten with the romance of the Pacific, Meredith cast a careful
                    eye over the tiny islands he visited. The lore-tinged pieces of coral, barren rock, and often
                    incandescent greenery were more than stopping places to him. He sensed that they were not mere
                    backwaters, but places connected, albeit tenuously, to a larger world that came and went from the
                    islands as its wonts and political considerations necessitated. Although scrabbled over by a
                    succession of missionaries, imperialists, hardbitten seamen, and traders, the islands remained. The
                    author provides vivid thumbnail sketches of the places, people, and history of many of the islands.
            Such is the case with the Bonins, once called the "Japanese islands of mystery" (p.
                    54). Meredith recounts the history of Chichi Jima. He describes the 1839 British-sponsored
                    settlement eventually led by the American Nathaniel Savory, the annexation of the island by the
                    Japanese after the Meiji Restoration, the execution of downed American pilots during the war, the
                    American occupation, and its return to 
                        Japan
                     (a move fought by Savory's descendants). Similar stories are told about the other
                    islands and their histories, involving explorers, missionaries, and rascals such as "His
                    Majesty OKeefe" of Yap.
            That Meredith still holds affection for the people he met is obvious. The book is filled with
                    reminiscences of the gentle, amicable natives. Sprinkled along the way are delightful anecdotes such
                    as that of a "barefoot baseball game" on Lukunor between a missionary-trained
                    native team and the Hanna's crew (p. 128), sailing lore such as "A ship
                    is perfectly safe [from grounding], as a rule, over anything darker than dark green
                    [water]" (p. 99).
            Like most memoirs, A Handful of Emeralds can seem selective and idyllic at times.
                    Some may hope for a harder edge, perhaps the casting of a harsher eye on superpower posturing or the
                    drudgery of day-to-day naval life, but it is the pleasure of the memoirist to tell the reader what
                    he wishes. Those are small prices to pay for a fine work like this. One hopes that Meredith has more
                    such books to follow.
            TIMOTHY R. CRUMRIN is a historian at Conner 
                        Prairie
                     Museum, Fishers, Indiana, and on the adjunct faculty at 
                        St. Mary-of-the-Woods
                     College, 
                        St. Mary-of-the-Woods
                    , Indiana, His article "Holding a Course: Professor John J. Schlicher's
                    Dismissal from Indiana State Normal" appeared in the March, 1992, issue of the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
         
         
         
            
               Before the Bomb: How America Approached the End of the Pacific War. By John D.
                    Chappell. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1997. Pp. 246. Illustrations, notes, sources, index. $24.95.)
            Since the bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, the shadows of those mushroom clouds have hung over
                    historical analysis of the end of the 
                        United States
                    ' war with 
                        Japan
                    . Because the development of and decision to use nuclear weapons were top secret,
                    historians have tended to search the classified records of the Truman administration for
                    explanations of why the war ended as it did. John D. Chappell takes a refreshingly novel approach
                    that examines evidence hidden in plain sight. He draws on newspaper and magazine articles, radio
                    news commentaries, and commercial advertising to supplement official government records.
            Chappell finds that before the use and simultaneous public revelation of the bomb, a broad-ranging
                    public discussion had addressed many of the issues that Truman and his advisers debated privately.
                    Commentators analyzed the degree of public enthusiasm for the war once 
                        Germany
                     had capitulated, the appalling casualty numbers in the battle for Okinawa, and the
                    possible use of chemical weapons to break 
                        Japan
                    's seemingly suicidal resistance to surrender. They debated the merits of an invasion of 
                        Japan
                     with high casualties versus a more prolonged but less costly naval siege and air
                    bombardment. These complex issues were further clouded by ignorance about 
                        Japan
                    , racial prejudice against the Japanese, and demands for vengeance for Pearl Harbor and
                    Japanese military atrocities. Opinions were diverse and even contradictory, and national leaders
                    were concerned about what the public would tolerate.
            Aware that public opinion is difficult to measure, Chappell provides excellent documentation for
                    identifiable public views. He examines a national sampling of newspaper editorials and columns,
                    including items from the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star and other midwestern papers. He analyzes transcripts of radio commentaries by
                    H. V. Kaltenborn and Raymond Gram Swing, to whom millions of Americans listened regularly during the
                    war. Chappell notes stereotypes of the Japanese and visions of postwar prosperity in advertisements
                    in 1945. The details of how this advertising revealed a white, male-dominated society in America
                    connect only tenuously with how the war ends and suggest an attempt to clothe what is diplomatic and
                    military history in the fashionable garb of social history.
            Chappell argues provocatively that Truman's response to the public discussion "was not an
                    example of inspired leadership" (p. 152). The critical issue to Chappell was the
                    administration's dogged adherence to the demand for unconditional surrender from the Japanese.
                    Although commentators opposed negotiation with Tokyo, many voices urged that 
                        Washington
                     clarify to 
                        Japan
                     the 
                        United States
                    ' demands for demilitarization, democratization, and dismemberment  of the empire. The president and his advisers seemed fearful of
                    appearing to be appeasers, but the public seemed willing to give an exhausted 
                        Japan
                     a diplomatic chance to accept surrender without further risk of American casualties.
                    Chappell concludes that the hostility toward 
                        Japan
                     that the public harbored did not necessarily make use of the bomb inevitable. This
                    monograph does not purport to be a study of all the reasons for dropping the bomb, but it succeeds
                    in bringing many long-obscured American voices back into the debate over whether the Pacific War
                    needed to end with the use of nuclear weapons.
            DAVID L. ANDERSON is professor of history and chair of the
                    Department of History and Political Science, University of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He is the editor of Facing My Lai: Moving Beyond the Massacre (1998)
                    and is currently editing an anthology on the 
                        Vietnam
                     era.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
