
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 49, Issue 3, pages 249-352. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:49+issue:3+year:1953&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            New 
                        Albany
                    's Attachment to the 
                        Ohio River
                    
            
            Victor M. Bogle*
            
            The years 1830 to 1860 mark the period when New 
                        Albany
                     was most indisputably attached to the 
                        Ohio River
                    . Before 1830 the town's econotny was basically a frontier
                    one, not unlike that of hundreds of inland villages. After 1860 the people of
                    New 
                        Albany
                     turned their attention to manufacturing, and the community retained
                    only a nominal relationship with the great waterway. But during the middle years
                    almost every phase of the town's economy had its roots in the grand
                    economy of the western river network.
            New 
                        Albany
                    's economic relationship with the river was expressed in
                    two characteristic ways: shipping and boatbuilding. The two enterprises grew up
                    together, and they combined to give that distinctive atmosphere which nineteenth
                    century contemporaries readily associated with the term "river
                    town." When these two pursuits were abandoned, New 
                        Albany
                     was stripped of its "river" character, and
                    thereafter pursued a course similar to that of other towns and cities throughout
                    the 
                        United States
                    .
            New 
                        Albany
                     is located about six hundred miles from the ocean, but it was for
                    many decades a port. It had a harbor, it had wharves, and it had its boats. As
                    in other ambitious places in the state of Indiana, its mercantile people sought
                    to improve their connections with the farm country and build up their
                    intercourse with the interior. But this was only papt of the New 
                        Albany
                     program. Just as important were efforts to improve and publicize
                    the town's river connection, It's importance as a commercial
                    center could be developed 
                  
                     * Victor M. Bogle is a resident of
                            Silver Spring, 
                                Maryland
                            . This article is a revised chapter of his Ph.D.
                            dissertation at 
                                Boston
                             University, 1961, written under the direction of Warren S.
                            Tryon.
               
                     and maintained only by capitalizing on the
                    advantages it offered as a port on the 
                        Ohio River
                    .
            New 
                        Albany
                    's port facilities developed as the need for them grew.
                    There is little formal record of how the early wharves looked. They were
                    probably not much more than cleared sections of the river bank bordering along
                    deep water where boats could conveniently "put in." As one
                    section of the river front demonstrated its advantages over others, it was
                    dignified as a "wharf." By 1850 two major wharves had evolved,
                    one in the upper and one in the lower end of the town, each stretching several
                    hundred feet along the river bank.1
            
            As the town was a transition point between the interior and the river, the
                    wharves were the direct points of transfer between town and river boats. Cargo
                    going to and coming from town merchants was deposited at the water front to
                    await further conveyance. An 1836 ordinance charged every steamboat which tied
                    up at the public wharf one dollar for each hour it remained; flat boats, keel
                    boats, and barges could remain two hours for fifty cents. Fees for improvement
                    and maintenance of the wharf were exacted from both depositors and receivers of
                    goods. Thirty-seven cents for every tan of dry goods and a corresponding fee for
                    other articles which passed over were charged. The
                    "wharfmaster" received twenty to twenty-five per cent of the
                    money he collected.2
            
            Business at the New 
                        Albany
                     port centered around the "wharf boat." This was
                    usually a large, worn-out steamboat which served as a kind of floating dock.
                    Incoming packets tied up at its side to facilitate their loading and unloading.
                    Maintaining the wharf boat was a profitable enterprise, particularly when it was
                    extended to include a warehousing business.3
            
            
               
                  1 New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Ledger, December 18, 1850.
               
                  2 New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Gazette, March 25, 1836. For the year 1841 the revenue
                        from the town wharf amounted to only $150.00, while in 1858 it
                        reached almost $2,500.00. The wharf statistics do not supply a
                        completely safe criterion for measuring the shipping carried on at the New 
                            Albany
                         port, but they do suggest the increase which occurred during
                        this period. The 1841 figure is from the Minutes of the Town Council, I,
                        377. These unpublished town and city records, beginning with 1830, are in
                        the New 
                            Albany City
                         Hall. The 1858 figure is from the New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Tribune, February 16, 1858.
               
                  3 Hy Reamer, who for years had the dual role of
                        wharfmaster end owner of the wharf boat, was a key man in the New 
                            Albany
                         shipping picture. His name frequently appears in the New 
                            Albany
                         papers of this period.
            
            
            The congestion at the wharves was a problem which, from the prevalence of
                    complaints, was never satisfactorily solved. The congestion was particularly
                    acute following a rise in the water which enabled stranded boats to resume
                    operations. Boats pulled up at New 
                        Albany
                     only to find the space taken by others which had arrived there
                    first. Coal barges, worn-out hulls, and boats undergoing repair took up still
                    more of the coveted space. If the incoming packets unloaded their cargoes,
                    freight frequently accumulated on the wharf beyond the means to carry it away,
                    and the scramble of the dock hands and drayers only added to the general
                    confusion. Many steamboat captains learned to avoid the inconvenience by going
                    on to 
                        Louisville
                     to unload cargo destined for New 
                        Albany
                    .4
            
            That the New 
                        Albany
                     water front did not offer all the facilities which the increased
                    volume of shipping warranted was a popular concern throughout this period. In
                    1836 the water front from State to Lower First Street was paved and graded, but
                    this procedure had to be repeated again and again in order to retain a semblance
                    of a landing.5 Almost every rise of the river left behind
                    enough mud to cover the wharves completely, and each time maintenance crews were
                    obliged to dig down to the hard surface and scrape away the mud.6
            
            The volume of business at New 
                        Albany
                     wharves depended on the momentary physical condition of the river
                    channel. Only a few months in the year was the level of the water ideal for
                    shipping. The remainder of the time it was too low, too high, or choked with
                    ice. The general price irregularities resulting from the fluctuation in river
                    shipping 
                  
                     4 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger, January 30, 1857.
                  
                     5 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Gazette, June 17, 1836.
                  
                     6 A notice similar to this one from the New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger, December 18, 1850, appeared about every year
                            in the New 
                                Albany
                             journals: "Any person who has had occasion to
                            visit the city wharves within the last few days could not certainly
                            avoid noticing the wretched condition they are in since the late rise in
                            the river. The water has receded and left a deposit of mud, of from six
                            inches to a foot in depth, covering the lower wharf entirely say fifty
                            or sixty feet from the water's edge, so that boats receiving or
                            discharging have to roll their freight over plank all that
                            distance.… It will perhaps be contended that at every rise of
                            the river sediment will be left on the wharves. This is very true; but
                            it is no good reason why it should not be cleaned off, simply because it
                            will fill up again."
               
                     directly affected merchants and townspeople
                        alike.7 While the obstructions prevailed, business in
                    the town which had any dependence on river shipping was temporarily paralyzed.
                    In the 1850's a serious autumn lull in shipping would put about three
                    hundred residents of the town out of work.
            Low water caused the most trouble because it frequently lasted for days and even
                    weeks at a time. Doctor Asahel Clapp recorded in his diary in December, 1838,
                    that in that particular year river shipping had been obstructed throughout the
                    entire autumn season.8 During the 1850's the
                    situation was especially bad. For several successive seasons prolonged droughts
                    tied up normal commercial activities on the New 
                        Albany
                     water front. On October 9, 1852, the Ledger
                    reported that the river was "quite low, with scant 3% feet water
                    between this side and 
                        Portland
                    , a very slim chance on the bars.… The skill of the
                    pilots is put to the extreme, and it is luck with boats of ordinarily heavy
                    draughts to get out." Three days later the newspaper declared:
                    "Boats are extremely scarce and the water as low as the
                    boatmen's spirits.… The river continues to fall and the bars
                    and snags are showing their ugliness all along the shore." The October
                    29 report was: "There are but few items taking place about the landing
                    that are worthy of notice. Freights keep up and the river keeps
                    down.… Business hum at the wharf has dwindled down into a sombre
                        gloom."9
            
            On November 5 a break finally came. " ‘What's the
                    news from 
                        Pittsburgh
                    ?’ is the question asked by river men this
                    morning. ‘The river is rising’ is the answer, and the
                    consequence is smiling faces. The leviathans of the 
                        New Orleans
                     line will soon be on the track, for they are all impatient to enter
                    the scenes of busy life."
            By November 8 it was reported that normal operations were being resumed.
                    "The river continues to rise at this point, and steamboatmen are busily
                    engaged in getting their respective crafts ready for the fall campaign. There is
                    now water enough for almost any size boat. The General 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    
                  
                     7 Asahel Clapp, Diary, 82. Doctor Clapp recorded
                            in his diary that in 1838 sugar was selling for twenty cents a pound,
                            and 
                        
                           
                              "… coffee is also very high, owing to
                                            the low stage of the river."
                           
                        
                      Flour usually selling at eight or nine dollars a barrel rose to
                            thirteen dollars in 1837. New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Gazette, January 27, 1837.
                  
                     8 Asahel Clapp, Diary, 82.
                  
                     9 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger, October 9, 12, 29, 1852.
               
                     will leave on Thursday. The Empire will
                    also leave in a few days, and we presume the other boats which have been laid up
                    during the season will leave in quick succession."10
            
            Despite the curtailment in shipping during these autumn intervals, it was during
                    this season that New 
                        Albany
                     looked most like a river port. As many as fifty steamboats of the
                    lower river lines, many of them of the largest and finest class, laid up at the
                    New 
                        Albany
                     front and took advantage of their temporary retirement to have
                    decks and hulls repainted or engines overhauled. Some went on across to 
                        Portland
                    , but a treacherous sandbar prevented many from reaching that far
                    once the water sank to its lowest level.11
            
            Floods did their share in disrupting the normal tenor of life along New 
                        Albany
                    's water front. Though none of the nineteenth century
                    floods equalled the deluge of 1937, several caused damage to property and
                    suffering to the population. Relatively minor floods, as the one of 1860, caused
                    much inconvenience to the people living in the river
                    "bottoms," while the effects of a greater one, as that of
                    December, 1852, brought a major disruption in the affairs of the town.
                    "The river rose at a rapid rate all last night, and this morning
                    continued to rise at the rate of three inches an hour, which, considering its
                    high state, is very fast. It is already over the first bank at several places
                    from Bank street down, and many families in the bottom are moving out, and
                    others getting ready.… A considerable amount of lumber about the ship
                    yards have already been swept away, and much more must be carried off if the
                    water continues to rise. We understand a portion of the timbers of a snag boat
                    being built by Messrs. Townsend & Wible have floated off. The water is
                    several inches deep in Cassell & Co.'s foundry. It is also
                    rapidly encroaching on Messrs. Lent, Smith & Shipman, some of the
                    mechanics in those shops worked all night getting out necessary work before the
                    flood put a total stop to operations.
            "Many poor families will bitterly feel the calamity, and it becomes all,
                    who can do so to lend a helping hand to the unfortunate."12
            
            When the water of a flood eventually reached its crest and began to fall, those
                    who had not been directly touched 
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., November 5, 8, 1852.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., July 15, October 31, 1854.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., December 29, 1852.
               
                     breathed a sigh of relief. The less
                    fortunate busied themselves in reclaiming their possessions from the yellow
                    silt. Gradually people in the "bottoms" re-entered their damp
                    huts, wharf crews got out their shovels again, and shortly, except for a figure
                    in the record book, the flood was largely forgotten. In spite of the
                    inconveniences they caused, the nineteenth century floods failed to alter
                    permanently the pattern of life on New 
                        Albany
                    's river front.13
            
            The freezing of the river had to be contended with, too. New 
                        Albany
                     had a relative immunity from this condition, for the water in its
                    harbor and channel was deep enough to escape freezing except when temperatures
                    were abnormally low.14 There were times, however, when the
                    complete cessation of shipping caused New 
                        Albany
                     to suffer as much as any place along the river. The town
                    experienced a severe winter in 1857, described in the January 9, 1857, Ledger. "Something about the river—In fact
                    we hardly know what to say.… It is closed with ice above and below,
                    and all the steamboat men are wearing long faces, anxiously waiting for a
                    thaw.… These are times that try men's purses—and
                    hard times they are too. All classes are seriously affected by it, and
                    especially those in limited circumstances. Marketing of every description is
                    enormously high, which makes a poor man's heart ache who has to supply
                    the wants of a large family.… There have been no arrivals from below
                    for a week past. Navigation is entirely suspended."
            Twelve days later the situation was further recounted. "The boats at the
                    wharves have as desolate an appearance as could possibly be produced under any
                    circumstances. Now and then their officers pay them a visit, but it is seldom
                    that anyone is seen on board except the mate and the watchmen, and they keep
                    themselves in doors as much as possible. The officers of the boats are hard to
                    find; they have got tired of lounging around boat stores at the landing, and
                    since the snow fell have been generally enjoying themselves in sleigh riding and
                    similar amusements."
            A week later the sleigh riding and similar amusements were over: "The
                    river here presents rather a rugged appearance this morning, the ice being piled
                    up in places ten feet high 
                  
                     13 This conclusion is based on newspaper accounts
                            of the many floods which affected New 
                                Albany
                             throughout this period.
                  
                     14 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger, January 21, 1857.
               
                     and the water washing and boiling up at a
                    fearful rate. Our steamboat friends who have boats lying along the shore are in
                    great fear of their destruction.… The wharfboat of Messrs. Reamer
                    & Perdue and the fleet of local boats along the shore are more or less
                    damaged, and some of them completely wrecked. The little schooner building here
                    is also damaged in the hull. Further down the Belle Sheridan… was
                    jammed by the ice with such force as to part her largest chain and cables. Iii
                    this condition she was forced on the shore about a hundred yards to where the
                    new steamer Baltic is lying. The Baltic being well fastened resisted the
                    pressure and cut into the Sheridan.… It is feared that as soon as the
                    ice starts again she will be completely wrecked."15
            
            To these uncontrollable obstructions to river transportation merchants and
                    shippers could do little more than acquiesce. But experiences with the
                    temperamental river encouraged them to try other means of conveying their goods
                    when these means became available. The editor of the Ledger
                    reported during the drought of 1854: "The chief of the travel, that is
                    that which formerly went by the river steamers, now go by the New 
                        Albany
                     and Lake 
                        Michigan
                     Railroad, saving to the passengers time and expense."
                    Although this editor was an ardent admirer of the river and river craft, he felt
                    that "… under these circumstances we think it is our duty to
                    recommend persons going east to avoid the river and take the railroad, which
                    they will find most comfortable, expeditious, and by far the cheapest mode of
                    traveling."
            This opinion was to be expressed more and more in the succeeding years as the
                    railroad steadily outstripped the river as a shipping medium. New 
                        Albany
                    , whose founding, development, and economic dignity came from its
                    favored river position, was destined to lose much in the eventual victory of
                    rail over river.
            There is no way to determine exactly how many boats put in at New 
                        Albany
                     or what volume of business passed over its wharves at the zenith of
                    its shipping days. For the year 1850 
                        Louisville
                     reported 6,667 arrivals and departures of steamboats at its
                    wharves, and probably about half this number stopped by New 
                        Albany
                     either on the up-river or the down-river trip.16 The number of arrivals and departures 
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., January 9, 21, 30, 1857.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., February 6, 1851, August 27, 1854, January 30,
                            1857.
               
                     at New 
                        Albany
                     varied from year to year, and from season to season. The New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Tribune reported on November 21, 1857, that
                    "… Business about the river was brisk yesterday, some eight
                    or ten boats arriving or departing, all of which discharged more or less
                        freight."17 On particularly busy days in the
                    1860's a typical daily river column in the Ledger
                    included the following:
            
                    "Arrivals and Departures.
                    Tishomingo, from 
                            Louisville
                         to 
                            Henderson
                        .
                    Time, from 
                            Louisville
                         to 
                            Tennessee river
                        .
                    Lacross, from above for below.
                    Lightfoot, from 
                            St. Louis
                         to 
                            Cincinnati
                        .
                    Woodford, from 
                            Louisville
                         to 
                            New Orleans
                        .
                    Tigress, from 
                            Pittsburgh
                         to 
                            St. Louis
                        .
                    Vixen, from 
                            St. Louis
                         to 
                            Cincinnati
                        .
                    McLellan, from 
                            Memphis
                         to 
                            Louisville
                        .
                    Belle Creole, from below for 
                            Pittsburgh
                        .
                    John Raine, from 
                            New Orleans
                         to 
                            Louisville
                        .
                    Chancellor, from 
                            New Orleans
                         to 
                            Louisville
                        .
                    
                  
                            Rochester
                        , from 
                            St. Louis
                         to 
                            Pittsburgh
                        .
                    
                  
                            Bowling Green
                        , from 
                            Louisville
                         to 
                            Leavenworth
                        ."18
               
                
            On March 31, 1860, the editor of the Ledger boasted:
                    "Within the last three months New 
                        Albany
                     has been one of the mat important shipping points on the 
                        Ohio
                    , and the regular packets in the trade from here to
                            
                  Henderson, St. Louis, Memphis
               , and 
                        New Orleans
                     have taken vast quantities of freight from our wharf. Boatmen are
                    awakening to a sense of their own interests, and no longer give our city the
                    cold shoulder."19
            
            Unlike many other towns up and down the river, New 
                        Albany
                     never presented a very orderly water front. Travelers coming into
                    the town by way of the river sometimes expressed astonishment to see such a
                    prosperous community concealed behind the shambles they had seen from the river.
                    Water Street presented "… a continous line of rickety old
                    frames, good enough, perhaps, in their day and generation… but
                    entirely out of character now that she boasts of thirteen or fourteen thousand
                        people."20 In spite of efforts of the Ledger
                    
                  
                     17 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Tribune, November 21, 1857.
                  
                     18 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger, May 2, 1869.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., March 31, 1860.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., April 4, 1855. The editor went on to lament:
                            "How miserable a fire we cut in this respect by the side of 
                                Madison
                             and 
                                Evansville
                            , and even towns of much less note!"
               
                     editor to shame the townspeople into
                    action, little was ever done to beautify New 
                        Albany
                    's river front.
            A mid-century river man, asked if he had heard of a place called New 
                        Albany
                    , Indiana, would have replied, "Of course—that
                    is where they build great steamboats." No more respectful homage could
                    be paid to an ambitious young town in the days when the 
                        Ohio River
                     was the dominant highway to the West, for the river's
                    greatness was symbolized by its colorful steamboats. New 
                        Albany
                     was by no means the only point in the West where river captains
                    contracted to have their boats built; 
                  Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Louisville
               , and neighboring 
                        Jeffersonville
                     were all important steamboat-building centers. But from the late
                    1840's until the Civil War, New 
                        Albany
                     vied with the largest river cities for supremacy in this important
                    enterprise.
            Only a few speculative reasons can be offered as to how New 
                        Albany
                     gained and maintained this position. Primary, perhaps, was its
                    geographic situation. Its location at a key point in the western river network
                    was advantageous. All three of the major towns in the Falls area were noteworthy
                    boatbuilding centers, while other towns as prosperous in other lines of endeavor
                    did not take up boatbuilding on a comparative scale.
            The limitations of the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Canal also contributed to New 
                        Albany
                    's boatbuilding importance. Since no steamboat more than
                    182 feet long could get through the locks of this canal, it became the custom to
                    build the larger boats for the lower river trade at points below the Falls.21 New 
                        Albany
                     was the most important boatbuilding center below the Falls, and
                    owed its status in part to the "ditch" that its 
                        Louisville
                     neighbors called.22
            
            That New 
                        Albany
                     began building boats at an early date—and that it built
                    them well—is a fundamental reason for the prosperity of its
                    boatbuilding trade. It was a proud industry from the first, and the endeavor to
                    justify this pride was the mainspring behind the consistent success 
                  
                     21
                            
                        
                                    Wheeling
                                 Bridge Case (Saratoga Springs, 
                                New York
                            , 1861), 281-282.
                  
                     22 The New 
                                Albany
                             editors commonly used this expression in referring to the
                            canal. Statistics on boatbuilding centers of this period can be found in
                            James Hall, Statistics of the West (
                                Cincinnati
                             1837), 262-263 and Rhodes Railroad and
                                Steamboat Directory (
                                Philadelphia
                            , May, 1867).
               
                     of New 
                        Albany
                     builders. By the 1850's no one who contemplated building a
                    first-class steamboat could ignore the qualifications offered by New 
                        Albany
                     contractors. The records of New 
                        Albany
                     boats for speed, beauty, and endurance were their chief selling
                    point.
            By the late 1840's the industry had become highly specialized. Each
                    project had been broken down into at least three separate phases: making the
                    hull, manufacturing the machinery, and constructing the cabin and
                    superstructure. Further specialization was manifested in the auxiliary metal
                    work, the painting, and the interior furnishing. New 
                        Albany
                     builders were adept at all of these aspects of steamboat
                    construction. "Completely built and outfitted in New 
                        Albany
                    " was a common boast of the New 
                        Albany
                     editors as they introduced one new boat after another to their
                    readers.
            During the era when boatbuilding was at its peak in New 
                        Albany
                    , hulls were constructed in four or five separate yards. These were
                    scattered along the river front from Fifth Street in the eastern section down to
                    "Lower 
                        Albany
                    " on the western outskirts.23 There is
                    no evidence of competition among the hull builders, though some did succeed in
                    obtaining more contracts than others; that so many yards were in operation
                    indicates there was patronage enough for all. From ten to twenty boats were
                    turned out in peak years. In leaner years contracts went to the more prominent
                    builders and the others devoted themselves to some subsidiary occupations, such
                    as constructing yawls and barges or sawing and planing lumber. The two firms
                    which received the majority of contracts in the 1850's were Humphrey
                    and Dowerman, and William Jones Company.24
            
            The builders did not complete the work on an expensive hull and then go in search
                    of someone to buy it. Rather, they 
                  
                     23 Gabriel Collins, 
                        
                                    Louisville
                                 and New 
                                    Albany
                                 Directory and Annual Advertiser (
                                Louisville
                            , 1848), 273 ff.
                  
                     24 Among the other firms there were the usual
                            fluctuations and failures. New building partnerships appeared one year
                            only to disapear the next. This listing gives some idea of the fluidity
                            in the hull building trade: 1848—Evans and King; Townsend and
                            Company; Tellon and Company; Stoy, Hart, and Company; Jones and 
                                Hungary
                            ; 1852—George Armstrong; Charles Wibble Company;
                            Stoy, Hart, and Company; D. M. Moore; Humphrey and Dowerman; William
                            Jones and Company; 1860—Townsend and Wibble; Humphrey and
                            Dowerman; William Jones and Company; Hill and Paine; Lee and Moore;
                            Tellon and Company. Data is from issues of the New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger of the period.
               
                     waited for prospective buyers to come to
                    them, and then agreed on specifications and cost. The best way to have a
                    customer come back was to build him a dependable boat, and the frequency with
                    which customers returned to New 
                        Albany
                     is evidence enough that they were satisfied.25
            
            When a builder was swamped with orders he sometimes completed a hull in as little
                    as six weeks.26 On a large contract he hired as many as
                    seventy-five carpenters, shipwrights, and laborers. Occasionally part of the
                    superstructure was added before the hull was launched, but usually this part of
                    the work was done after the hull was floated. The best time to launch a hull was
                    during the high water season so that the impact of the three to four
                    hundred-foot slide into the water would be appreciably diminished. But during a
                    busy season there was no time to wait for a rise. Boats were pushed down just as
                    soon as practicable in order that the ways might be cleared for the next
                    project. Three or four boats, in varying stages of construction, could sometimes
                    be seen in a single yard.27
            
            Building the hull was not the most expensive phase of the construction operation.
                    According to the figures compiled by one authority on nineteenth century
                    steamboat-building, the over-all cost of a boat averaged thirty dollars per
                    measured ton.28 On smaller boats this might amount to about
                    half the over-all cost, but on larger and more luxurious ones it was probably
                    not over one-third. The "home" or
                    "birthplace" of the boat, however, was wherever its hull was
                    laid down. New 
                        Albany
                     made no claim to the many boats which were towed down to its yards
                    from 
                        Jeffersonville
                     or other places for the installation of machinery and completion of
                    the superstructure.
            From the time the first foundry was established in New 
                        Albany
                     in the late 1820's, the manufacture and installation of
                    steamboat machinery was an important feature of boat- 
                  
                     25 Captain John R. Cannon is perhaps the best
                            example of an owner who repeatedly returned to New 
                                Albany
                             to have boats built. Captain Cannon had had seven boats
                            built at New 
                                Albany
                             before he contracted for his great "Robert E.
                            Lee" in 1866. New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger, October 6, 1866.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., June 11, 1869.
                  
                     27 Frederick Way, Way's
                                Steamboat Directory (Sewickley, 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , 1944), 71.
                  
                     28 Louis C. Hunter, Steamboats on the
                                Western Rivers (
                                Cambridge
                            , 
                                Massachusetts
                            , 1949), 111.
               
                     building in the town. The fact that the
                    machinery could be procured on the spot had its part in attracting to New 
                        Albany
                     prospective steamboat owners who desired a speedy job, for towing
                    an incompleted hull took time and was avoided whenever possible. As a rule,
                    foundries were located only in larger cities, such as 
                  Pittsburgh, Cincinnati, Louisville
               , and 
                        St. Louis
                    ;29 but New 
                        Albany
                     had at least one in the early years and several in the
                    1850's and 1860's.
            New 
                        Albany
                    's leading foundry was that of Lent, South, and Shipman,
                    later known as the "Phoenix." It was a development of the
                    original establishment of Cox and his partner back in 1825. Up to the year 1843,
                    when Lent, South, and Shipman took over this foundry, its success had been only
                    partial, and at the time of its purchase it was not considered a good
                        investment.30 The new partners, "…
                    all young men of energy and mechanics…," soon instilled new
                    life into the enterprise. When in 1846 a disastrous fire destroyed their plant
                    and much work in process of construction, the townspeople responded with a
                    thirty-six hundred dollar donation to help them re-establish their firm.
            The "Phoenix" foundry turned out two steamboat engines every
                    month during its prosperous years, in addition to land engines, presses,
                    castings, and various other types of iron equipment. In 1855 it employed one
                    hundred and fifty men, more than the largest boatyard, and had a weekly payroll
                    of over one thousand dollars. Its gross business was annually more than two
                    hundred thousand dollars. In addition to the foundry proper there were several
                    other departments: the pattern shop, the "fitting" shop, the
                    "finishing" shop, the boiler shop, and the blacksmith shop.
                    Among the noted boats which received their engines from this establishment were
                    the "Reindeer," "Old Empire,"
                    "H.R.W. Hill," "
                        California
                    ," "Belle Key,"
                    "Rainbow," "Magnolia," "New Uncle
                    Sam," and the "A.L. Shotwell."31
            
            Though the "Phoenix" foundry was given most of the engine work
                    for the New 
                        Albany
                     boats a number of other concerns also manufactured engines. Among
                    these were Phillips, Hise, and Company ("Swan,"
                    "Brilliant," "Eclipse," 
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 109.
                  
                     30 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger, September 21, 1855. This issue gives a
                            detailed account of the development of this foundry concern.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., various issues, 1849-1860.
               
                     "Edward Howard"); Cox,
                    Angel, and Pitt ("Pelican," "Chancellor,"
                    "St. Nicholas," "E.H. Fairchild"); Johnston
                    and Company ("Jennie Kirk"); and the "American
                    Foundry" of Peter Tellon ("Rapides,"
                    "Piota," "Acadia,"
                        "Iberville").32 Tellon was an
                    exception to the general rule of specialization, for he built both hulls and
                    engines. He was a representative of the older group of New 
                        Albany
                     boatbuilders, and his business still prospered as late as 1860.33
            
            The men who performed the work on the cabin and superstructure of the New 
                        Albany
                     steamboats were less publicized in the daily press than were those
                    who made the hull and engine; but their share in the project was
                    important—and by the time all the conveniences and luxuries had been
                    added, usually the most costly.34 There were at least ten
                    concerns which built cabins for the New 
                        Albany
                     boats in the 1850's, but as a rule one dominated the
                    business at a time. During the first half of the decade most of the work went to
                    Thompson and Beeler, and during the latter half to Hipple, Smith and Company.
                    Other cabin contractors were Payne and Company, Hart and Stoy (also hull
                    builders), and Howard and Cash.35
            
            The New 
                        Albany
                     boats received varying amounts of docration. Some, as the Red River
                    packet "Rapides," were "plainly finished, but
                    possessing every comfort.…" while the real floating palaces,
                    as the "Magnolia I" and the "Brilliant," had
                    decoration heaped upon them. The furnishing and decorating incorporated the
                    local merchants in the proceedings. Most of ‘the more luxurious
                    items—up holstered articles, carpets, draperies,
                    tapestries—came from the firm of Hurlbut and Mann,
                    "…who probably now furnish a larger number of boats than any
                    other house in this city or 
                        Louisville
                    ."36 Spurrier, Parker, and Company were
                    interior decorators and also suppliers of various items of
                    "refinement." A looking glass frame which they furnished for
                    an 1853 steamer was described: "As a specimen of artistic skill it is
                    superior to anything of the kind we have seen. The style is the 
                        Norman
                    -Gothic, the size about 9 feet 
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., 1849-1860.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., April 26, 1860.
                  
                     34 Hunter, Steamboats on the Western
                                Rivas, 111. See this work for the relative costs of the
                            steamboat hulls, cabins, and engines.
                  
                     35 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger, 1849-1860. Alterations in partnership were
                            manifested also in this trade. One of the chief cabin builders, Daniel
                            Hipple, had three different partners from 1850 to 1857.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid, December 16, 21, 24, 1850 and January 12,
                        1855.
               
                     by 4. The composition work in imitation of
                    carving is very elaborate. The gilding is really splendid, and shows off with
                    fine effect.… The cost of the frame, without the glass, which is to
                    be shipped from 
                        New York
                    , is about $150."37
            
            If an owner wanted his boat to be luxurious, the New Albanyians could make it
                    that way. The interior of the "Brilliant" was indeed splendid.
                    "Every portion of this magnificent cabin is beautifully gilded in gold,
                    which presents a rich and gorgeous appearance.… The
                    ladies’ cabin is to be furnished with an elegant tapestry Brussels.
                    The cushions are to be covered with the finest brocatelle. There are two
                    brides’ chambers, to be furnished with mahogany bedsteads and most
                    beautifully decorated with lace, etc. All the state rooms in both the cabins are
                    large and convenient, and to be furnished with spring mattresses. A large mirror
                    is to be placed in the back part of the ladies’ cabin, and one on
                    each side of the door in the gentlemen's leading to the
                    ladies’ cabin, so that when the doors are thrown open, it will look
                    like one immense mirror at the after end of the boat. Aft of the
                    ladies’ cabin is a hall for the female servants, and on the second
                    deck their sleeping apartment. There are also special sleeping apartments for
                    the stewards and cabin boys, apart from the cabin. In the ‘
                        Texas
                    ’ there are rooms for the officers, and also a cardroom
                    where those wishing to play can go and thus be separated from the cabin, many
                    passengers not liking to be present when card playing is going on. Separate
                    tables will be spread for the officers and also for the servants, so that the
                    passengers will have the cabin entirely to themselves at all times."38
            
            Several different kinds of river craft were produced by New 
                        Albany
                     during its steamboat-building days—yawls, barges,
                    towboats, snagboats, ferries—boats ranging from less than one hundred
                    tons capacity to those measuring over one thousand, But it was the construction
                    of the large, combined passenger and freight packets for which New 
                        Albany
                     builders were particularly noted and on which the fame of the town
                    as a boating center rests.
            The packets varied considerably in cost, size, and elaborateness of furnishings,
                    but the "Alice Vivian," built in 1856, may serve as an
                    example. She was two hundred feet long, thirty-three and a half feet wide
                    (beam), and had a hold 
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., December 17, 1853.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., December 21, 1850.
               
                     seven feet deep. She was a side-wheeler,
                    the wheels measuring thirty-three feet across. She had two high-pressure
                    engines, with cylinders twenty-seven inches in diameter and with an eight-foot
                    stroke. There were six boilers, twenty-six feet long and thirty-six inchs in
                    diameter. Her cabin was conveniently and even luxuriously outfitted, with
                    accommodations for over two hundred passengers. Her capacity was 377 tons, and
                    in the Mobile trade, for which she was built, she carried as many as 1,777 bales
                    of cotton. She cost her owners fifty thousand dollars.39
            
            Less typical but more famous were such boats as the "Eclipse,"
                    the "R.W. Ward," the "H.R.W. Hill," the
                    "A.L. Shotwell," and the "New Uncle Sam."
                    All big boats, they ranged upward from seven hundred tons capacity and seventy
                    thousand dollars in cost. They were built not only to carry large freight
                    cargoes and many passengers, but to break speed records.40
            
            As each new boat was launched from the New 
                        Albany
                     yards, it was expected to have its effect on racing records
                    somewhere along the 
                        Ohio
                    -
                        Mississippi
                     "race track." The editor of the Ledger maintained a professional caution, but he was a New Albanyian.
                    "We do not approve of steamboat racing, and we would not say one word
                    having a tendency to encourage it; but when boats will race,
                    we as a matter of course, like all the rest. of the world and the rest of
                    mankind, wish to see our side win."41
            
            Many times "our side" did win. Here is the record of New 
                        Albany
                     boats on one of the favorite racing courses, 
                        New Orleans
                     to Natchez:
            
                    "Sultana" (1844)—19 hours, 33 minutes (record
                        till 1855)
                    "Magnolia" (1851)—19 hours, 50 minutes
                    "A.L. Shotwell" (1853)—19 hours, 49 minutes
                    "Eclipse" (1853)—19 hours, 47 minutes
                    "New Princess" (1855)—18 hours, 53 minutes
                    "New Princess" (1856)—17 hours, 30 minutes
                
            The "New Princess" held the record on this course until years
                    later another New 
                        Albany
                     boat, the "Robert E. Lee," lowered the time to
                    seventeen hours and eleven minutes.42
            
            
               
                  39
                        Ibid., December 8, 1856.
               
                  40
                        Ibid., 1849-1860.
               
                  41
                        Ibid., June 8, 1850.
               
                  42 New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Ledger-Standard, October 2, 1882. This issue carries a
                        record of some of the more important "racers."
            
            
            The participating boats in the most publicized—and the most
                    controversial—racing contest of the pre-Civil War era were two New 
                        Albany
                    -built vessels, the "Eclipse" and the "A.
                    L. Shotwell." Both were packets in the 
                        New Orleans
                    -
                        Louisville
                     run, and the strenuous fourteen hundred-mile upstream course
                    between the terminal cities was the logical place for them to settle their
                    growing rivalry. In order to simplify the measuring of each boat's
                    time, the "Eclipse" was to leave 
                        New Orleans
                     at a prescribed hour on May 14, 1853, and the
                    "Shotwell" was to leave at this exact hour four days later.43 Each boat was to be clocked as it passed the finish line
                    at 
                        Portland
                     (
                        Louisville
                    ). In spite of some serious engine trouble, the
                    "Eclipse" pulled in at 
                        Portland
                     at 7:50 P.M., May 18, setting a new record for the course of four
                    days, nine hours, and thirty minutes. Four days later the
                    "Shotwell," after having gone aground near 
                        Evansville
                     for more than two hours, crossed the finish line at 7:49 P.M., thus
                    beating the time of the "Eclipse" by a single minute.44
            
            The editor of the New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Ledger accepted the "Shot-well" as the
                    undisputed winner and proclaimed it to be the fastest boat on the western
                    waters. But the "Eclipse" had many supporters, sentimental and
                    otherwise, and their case became particularly strong when Captain E. T. Sturgeon
                    of the "Eclipse" gathered affidavits from a number of
                    spectators in 
                        New Orleans
                     who testified that the "Shotwell" left that city
                    at least fifteen minutes before it was supposed to. Captain W. L. Fuller of the
                    "Shotwell" persistently denied this accusation, and
                    steamboatmen of 
                        St. Louis
                     supported his stand by giving the "Shotwell" the
                    "horns" of victory once worn by the "J. M.
                    White," previous record-holder on 
                  
                     43 Probably there was no pre-arranged plan for
                            this contest. When it became known that the captain of the
                            "Eclipse" was going to "race against
                            time" on a routine trip to 
                                Louisville
                            , the captain of the "Shot-well" decided
                            to accept the challenge and do likewise on his next return trip.
                  
                     44 Information on this contest is taken from the
                            New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger, the 
                                Louisville
                            
                            Journal, the 
                        
                                    Missouri
                                 Republican (
                                St. Louis
                            ), and the 
                                New Orleans
                            
                            Commercial Bulletin for the period May 14 to June 15,
                            1853. The race is mentioned in many of the standard books on river
                            history, but it is difficult to draw from any of them a clear picture of
                            exactly what happened. See: James T. Lloyd, Lloyd's Steamboat Directory (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1856), 279; Henry Hall, "Report on the
                            Shipbuilding Industry of the 
                                United States
                            ," Tenth 
                                    United States
                                 Census, 1880, VIII, 178; Hunter, Steamboats on the Western Rivers, 23; and Richard Collins, History of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                Louisville
                            , 1874), I, 205.
               
                     the 
                        New Orleans
                     to 
                        Louisville
                     course.45 It is not likely that a completely
                    satisfying verdict as to the victor in the May 1853 runnings will ever be given.
                    But the record set by these two New 
                        Albany
                     boats was not bettered even by the racing giants of post-Civil War
                        days.46
            
            There were dozens of minor races in which New 
                        Albany
                     boats participated, but the most exciting were those in which they
                    challenged the 
                        Louisville
                    -built boats. This 1858 contest between the
                    "Diana" and the "Baltic," sister boats in
                    the 
                        New Orleans
                     run, was reported by the Ledger. "As we
                    predicted, the river bank was lined last evening by our
                    citizens—including a large number of ladies—anxiously
                    awaiting the arrival of the Baltic. The dispatches published that she would
                    arrive about 9 o'clock, but in consequence of her flues choking up she
                    lost time between here and 
                        Evansville
                    , and did not arrive till half past ten. She rounded the point on
                    the 
                        Kentucky
                     shore, but came across and ran close to the Indiana side in front
                    of our city. She was greated by the cheers of the multitude and the firing of
                    cannon.
            "The Diana arrived at a little after one, the Baltic beating her two
                    hours and seven, minutes from Orleans—a close run on a stretch of
                    fifteen hundred miles, it is true, but a sufficient difference to prove
                    incontestably the superiority of the Baltic.
            "The Diana was built at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and 
                        Louisville
                    , and was intended and expected to be the fastest boat on the river.
                    The Baltic was built in this city.… She was intended by Capt. Meekin
                    as a serviceable business boat, without particular reference to swiftness. Her
                    triumph over the Diana, therefore, proves conclusively what we have often
                    contended, that New 
                            Albany
                         builds the best and fastest boats on the Western
                        waters."47
            
            Although New 
                        Albany
                     is located in what was considered "northern"
                    territory, her steamboats were built for service in the deep South. Of the
                    eleven packets running in the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        New Orleans
                     "Lightning Line" in 1858, nine were New 
                        Albany
                    -built.48 The durability of the New 
                        Albany
                     boats was tested daily in the shallow, snag-infested inlets and
                    bayous of the South, and they customarily gave a good 
                  
                     45 For an account of the presentation of the
                            "horns" see New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger, June 7, 1853.
                  
                     46 Collins, History of 
                                    Kentucky
                                
                     , I, 205.
                  
                     47 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger, March 26, 1858.
                  
                     48
                            Ibid., September 14, 1858.
               
                     account of themselves. How well southern
                    shippers liked New 
                        Albany
                     boats can be seen by this listing of the geographical areas for
                    which the boats produced in 1862 were designed:
            
               
                  Boat
                  Locality for which designed
               
               
                  "Edward Howard"
                  
                            
                                Nashville
                            
                        
               
               
                  "R.W. Hill"
                  
                            
                                Nashville
                            
                        
               
               
                  "Tishomingo"
                  
                            
                                Tennessee River
                            
                        
               
               
                  "Eastport"
                  
                     
                                Tennessee River
                            -
                                New Orleans
                            
                  
               
               
                  "Azile"
                  Mobile
               
               
                  "Cremona"
                  Mobile
               
               
                  "Sally Carson"
                  Mobile
               
               
                  "Sam Dale"
                  Mobile
               
               
                  "Eliza Battle"
                  Mobile
               
               
                  "Joshua"
                  Tellahatchie River
               
               
                  "Piota"
                  Red River
               
               
                  "Opelousas"
                  Opelousas River
               
               
                  "Belle Gould"
                  
                            
                                Mississippi River
                            
                        
               
               
                  "Octavia"
                  Lower trade
               
               
                  "Mary Hunt"
                  
                     
                                Louisville
                            -
                                New Orleans
                            
                  
               
               
                  "R.W. Ward"
                  
                     
                                Louisville
                            -
                                New Orleans
                            
                  
               
               
                  "Geddis"
                  Lake boat
               
               
                  "J.M. Martin"
                  
                     
                                Portland
                            -New 
                                Albany
                             (ferry)49
                  
               
            
            The practice of building boats largely for service in the deep South tied New 
                        Albany
                    's boat industry irrevocably with the southern economy.
                    This condition was an evil portent for the industry's future when the
                    sectional rivalry broke out into a civil war.
            In 1860 there was little to indicate that boatbuilding in New 
                        Albany
                     was not a permanent feature of the town. The depression of 1858
                    caused some concern among New 
                        Albany
                     builders, but they managed to hold their own. In 1860 they were
                    again up to the normal production figure of thirteen boats.50 The next decade, however, was to be different. In the years which
                    followed, many residents of New 
                        Albany
                     looked back on the 1850's as the golden age of their town.
                    They felt that if only they could return to making steamboats the old days would
                    be restored.51 Whether they were right or wrong in
                    diagnosing the cause of later economic ills, New Albanyians never got back to
                    building steamboats on the grand scale of the 1850's.
            
               
                  49
                        Ibid., December 2, 1852.
               
                  50 Henry A. and Kate Ford, History of the 
                                Ohio
                             Falls Cities and Their Counties (2 vols, 
                            Cleveland
                        , 1882), II, 170 ff.
               
                  51 New 
                            Albany
                        
                        Ledger, January 24, 1870.
            
         
         
         
            
               
                        Lincoln
                     and Private Lennan
            William Frank Zornow*
            
            During the early days of the Civil War the Federal government was disposed to
                    adopt a lenient attitude toward deserters; for the first two years of the war
                    the death penalty was rarely inflicted for their crime. The tendency was to regard known deserters as merely A.W.O.L., and on several
                    occasions when courts-martial had provided the maximum sentence a clement
                    administration intervened to reprieve the condemned. As the war increased in
                    intensity during 1863 this practice lessened. Almost immediately there was a
                    noticeable improvement in morale and a healthy sentiment prevailed throughout
                    the army.
            One class of deserters was not affected by this new policy. These were volunteers
                    for bounties or substitutes for drafted men who deserted before getting into the
                    field. The policy of the government toward these men was lax. They were never
                    pursued and punished properly and the tendency to label them "bounty
                    jumpers" rather than "deserters" resulted in the
                    practice being looked upon by many as a shrewd trick rather than a crime.
            In Indiana there were many professional bounty jumpers at work. The procedure
                    became so extensive that it was necessary for state authorities to co-operate
                    with the Federal army to suppress it. In Januaiy, 1864, the Seventeenth
                    Regiment, Veteran Reserve Corps, composed of men who had been wounded and could
                    no longer fight, was organized and stationed at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , under the command of Colonel Adoniram J. Warner. Warner's
                    principal task was to keep close check on the activities of the Sons of Liberty
                    and to ferret out deserters and bounty jumpers. A special prison was constructed
                    at the Old Soldiers’ Home to receive these men. When a sufficient
                    number had been collected, they were manacled together, paraded through the
                    streets of 
                        Indianapolis
                     with placards on their backs proclaiming their crime, and then
                    returned to the front under armed guard. Many of them, however, often deserted
                    again almost as soon as they were 
                  
                     * William Frank Zornow is Assistant
                            Professor of History, Kansas State College, Manhattan, 
                                Kansas
                            .
               
                     released to reappear in another part of the
                    state, re-enlisting under another alias.
            When it became apparent that this activity must be checked, it was decided to try
                    some of the worst offenders on the charge of desertion and to make an example of
                    them. The authorities were determined to try all the obdurate cases by
                    court-martial in ‘the future to prevent the repetition of the fraud.
            In 
                        Indianapolis
                     on November 22, 1864, four bounty jumpers were placed on trial
                    before a court-martial commanded by Colonel Warner. They were Charles
                    Billingsley, Thomas Ryan, James Murray, and John Doyle Lennan. Billingsley had
                    enlisted in the 7th Indiana Battery and deserted. When arrested he gave his name
                    as George Roberts, and a search of his possessions revealed papers which
                    indicated he had enlisted on an earlier occasion under the name of Cooper.
                    Subsequent investigation revealed that he had once been a deserter from the 1st 
                        Georgia
                     Regiment, and had been in three Indiana regiments. He also
                    confessed he had murdered a woman and child, and had been practicing bounty
                    jumping since 1861. During the trial he insisted he had three hundred dollars
                    hidden in his cell, which he claimed Warner had discovered and confiscated for
                    his own use. Warner denied such charges.
            Thomas Ryan alias John Reagan had been a member of the 51st Indiana Regiment from
                    which he had deserted. When taken into custody he boasted to his captors that he
                    had been engaged in bounty jumping for many years and had enlisted at least
                    thirty times. James Murray, sometimes called Thomas Murray, was born in 
                        Ireland
                    . He had been a sailor on the Great Lakes and resided in 
                        London
                    , 
                        Ontario
                    . He came to Indiana, enlisted in the 11th Cavalry at 
                        Lafayette
                    , was sent to Camp Carrington, and ‘then deserted. He was
                    speedily apprehended, however, aboard the train between 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Lafayette
                    . No definite evidence was introduced to prove the charge, but he
                    was suspected of being a professional deserter.
            The fourth prisoner was another young man who had been born in 
                        Ireland
                    , worked on the Lakes, and had enlisted in the 11th Cavalry. He
                    appears variously in the records as John Doyle, Thomas Doyle, and John Lennan,
                    but his correct  name seems to have been
                    John Doyle Lennan. He and Murray were about the same age (twenty-six) and were
                    friends. Wearing civilian clothes, they were taken into custody aboard the same
                    train.
            The four men were found guilty and sentenced to be executed by firing squad on
                    December 23, at Camp Burnside which was contingent to Camp Morton. At 2:OO P.M.
                    on the appointed day, Billingsley, Murray, and Ryan were marched out of the
                    prison, paraded before nearly two thousand soldiers, military prisoners from
                    Camp Nelson and bounty jumpers from the Soldiers’ Home Prison, who
                    were mustered to watch the execution. A detachment of sixty-four men was
                    assembled to carry out the execution; some of the soldiers’ muskets
                    were loaded with blanks so that no man would know whose gun fired the fatal
                    shot. Apparently there was some uneasiness among the troops detailed for this
                    duty since the execution of bounty jumpers was entirely unprecedented. A major
                    stepped forward to remind the troops briefly that although the task was
                    unpleasant it was necessary that a lesson be taught ‘to all bounty
                    jumpers. After receiving the consolation of the church from Father John F.
                    Bessonies of St. John's Catholic Church, the three men were
                    blindfolded, seated on their coffins, and made ready. A moment later a volley of
                    musketry ended their lives.
            Private Lennan did not meet with his fellow-deserters. At the last moment his
                    execution had been delayed by order of President Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    .
            
               
                        Lincoln
                     had approved the execution of the four men, for the government was
                    determined to make an example of them in order to discourage the continued
                    practice of bounty jumping. The North was engaged in its last all-out drive
                    against the Confederacy, and every man was needed; no longer could 
                        Washington
                     afford to handle lightly the cases of men who were making a
                    profession of robbing the states and shirking their duties.
            In view of 
                        Lincoln
                    's warm-heartedness it is easy to surmise that he must have
                    had grave misgivings about ordering the deaths of four boys the oldest of whom
                    was not over twenty-seven.1 The President had intervened
                    before on several 
                  
                     1 Adoniram Judson Warner Papers, Western Reserve
                            Historical Society, 
                                Cleveland
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            . (The Warner Papers contain many documents and newspaper
                            clippings concerning this case).
               
                     occasions to reprieve men under sentence of
                    death for desertion, but this was a unique case. It was the first time that a
                    court-martial had been assembled to try men guilty of bounty jumping, and the
                    first time the death penalty had been invoked for such a crime.
            There is no evidence to indicate that 
                        Lincoln
                     was under pressure from any source close to him in 
                        Washington
                     to order a stay of execution for these four deserters. The first
                    inkling of organized opposition to carrying out the sentence was a telegram 
                        Lincoln
                     received from 
                        Indianapolis
                     informing him that the Society of Friends in that city was
                    preparing a petition imploring him to commute the sentences of these men.2 If such a petition was prepared, it apparently did not
                    reach the hands of the chief executive.
            The factor which eventually induced 
                        Lincoln
                     to relent in Lennan's case was a telegram which arrived
                    from 
                        Indianapolis
                     just one day before the sentence was to have been carried out. It
                    came from Lennan's brother, Felix Lennan, and it read: 
                  
                     
                        "My brother John Doyle Lennan alias Thomas Doyle is
                                    under sentence of death for desertion and ordered to be shot
                                    tomorrow at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , Ind. I humbly petition you for the postponement of
                                    the execution for ten days. Please give me an
                                answer."
                     
                  
               
               3
            
            Apparently acting on this single appeal, 
                        Lincoln
                     ordered a ten-day respite for Lennan, while on the following day
                    the other three convicts went to their deaths.
            It was strange that 
                        Lincoln
                     should have been swayed by such a singular appeal. There does not
                    seem to be any evidence to indicate that Felix Lennan made any effort to get in
                    touch with 
                        Lincoln
                     prior to his last-minute telegram. It is almost unbelievable that
                    Leiman would have delayed his request so long, and that he would appeal to the
                    president in such an impersonal way as to send a telegram without a word of
                    explanation or an impassioned plea for his brother's life. Yet,
                    apparently, this single appeal was sufficient to induce 
                        Lincoln
                     to delay the execution. Colonel Warner later wrote that 
                        Lincoln
                     reprieved Lennan on the strength of his brother's
            
               
                  2 Jonathan Wilson to Abraham 
                            Lincoln
                        , December 19, 1864, Robert T. Lincoln Papers, Library of
                        Congress, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.
               
                  3 Felix Lennan to Abraham 
                            Lincoln
                        , December 22, 1864, Robert T. Lincoln Papers.
            
            
            request.4 The 
                        Lincoln
                     papers contain no further letters or telegrams from Felix Lennan to 
                        Lincoln
                    , nor is there any indication that Lennan ever thanked the president
                    for saving his brother.
            Actually, 
                        Lincoln
                     only reprieved Lennan for ten days so that he could re-examine the
                    facts of the case. A series of telegrams was exchanged between 
                        Lincoln
                     and the presiding officer of the court-martial concerning the
                    matter. On December 30, as the ten-day respite was drawing to a close, 
                        Lincoln
                     telegraphed Warner:
                  
                     
                        "It is understood that you were on the Court Martial
                                    that tried John Lennan, and that you are disposed to advise his
                                    being pardoned and sent to his regiment. If this be true,
                                    telegraph to that effect at once."
                     
                  
               
               5 Warner replied immediately: 
                  
                     
                        "I cannot advise that John Lennan be pardoned and sent
                                    to his regiment. He enlisted under a false name, and, I believe
                                    with the intention of deserting after drawing his bounty. In
                                    consideration, however, of his age, and his conduct since his
                                    trial, I could recommend that his sentence be commuted to
                                    imprisonment for life."
                     
                  
               
               6 On the following day 
                        Lincoln
                     replied: 
                  
                     
                        "Suspend the execution of John Lennan until further
                                    orders from me and in the meantime send me the record of his
                                    trial."
                     
                  
               
               7
            
            The records apparently were sent to 
                        Lincoln
                    , but he took no further action. The more pressing problems of war
                    and peace drove the thought of Private Lennan from 
                        Lincoln
                    's mind, and the young man continued to languish in prison
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , waiting for the chief executive to recommend further action in his
                    case. At the time of his trip to Ford's Theatre 
                        Lincoln
                     had still not acted, and then it was too late. Lennan lived to
                    learn of his benefactor's death.
            When the war ended, there was no further reason for enforcing capital punishment.
                    Lennan was released after being 
                  
                     4
                            Report of the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana
                            (8 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1866-1869), I (appendix), 286-287.
                  
                     5 Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                             to Adoniram Judson Warner, December 30, 1864, Warner
                            Papers.
                  
                     6 Adoniram Judson Warner to Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            , December 30, 1864, Robert T. Lincoln Papers.
                  
                     7 Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                             to Adoniram Judson Warner, December 31, 1864, Warner
                            Papers. Special order 210 issued by General Alvin P. Hovey contains a
                            reference to the suspension of Lennan's execution until further
                            orders.
               
                     in jail for several months under sentence
                    of death, and he slipped from the pages of history.
            Thus closed a unique case in the annals of American military justice. It served
                    to show another example of Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    's tender regard for his Boys in Blue and his willingness
                    to overlook the shortcomings of his fellow men.
         
         
         
            Martin L. Peirce—Hoosier Banker and Benefactor1
            
            Marguerite Hall Albjerg*
            
            Indiana has reared many native sons who have reflected honor upon her and the
                    nation. She has also adopted worthy offspring of other states and nurtured them
                    to fulfillment of their youthful promise while they in turn have generously
                    bestowed benefits upon the people of Indiana. Martin L. Peirce, who spent. over
                    fifty of his eighty-three years on the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    , was one of those able adopted sons.
            Peirce was born in 
                        Portsmouth
                    , 
                        New Hampshire
                    , in 1806 and was, the; son of Dr. Nathaniel S. Peirce, owner and
                    publisher of the 
                  
                            New Hampshire
                         Gazette. At the age of fifteen he began seven years of
                    training in the fundamentals of finance in the counting room of C. and C. W.
                    Peirce, commission merchants of 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Upon the completion of his apprenticeship he came to the West and
                    for a time settled in eastern 
                        Illinois
                    . During this period he made two trips by flatboat to 
                        New Orleans
                    , once almost succumbing to an attack of yellow fever at 
                        Memphis
                    .
            In 1836 Peirce arrived in 
                        Lafayette
                    . He quickly became interested in several commercial enterprises but
                    because of his youthful impecuniousness his chief contribution was not capital
                    but fiscal competence. He became the directing member of Hanna, Barbee and
                    Company, the principal grain and commission dealers in the area, and served for
                    a time as director of the 
                        Lafayette
                     branch of the State Bank of Indiana.
            Peirce served two terms on the city council of 
                        Lafayette
                     and two terms as sheriff of 
                        Tippecanoe County
                    , declining, however, the Whig nomination for the county offices of
                    treasurer and clerk.2
            
            Prior to his term as sheriff, he worked for a short period as an assistant at the
                    local jail. Ha invented at that time "a sounder which informed him when
                    something went wrong with the prisoners. It was an apparatus comprised of a wire
                    stretched from his bed-room [in a nearby house] into the jail. 
                  
                     * Marguerite Hall Albjerg is a former
                            member Of the Department of History, Government and Philosophy of Purdue
                            University.
                  
                     1 Some of the data in this article will appear in
                            the brochure, A Bank Grows in 
                                Lafayette
                            , to be published in 1953, by the author.
                  
                     2
                            Biographical Record and Portrait Album of 
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1888), 513.
               
                     To either end was attached a cow bell of
                    the old style make, with clapper removed, which caught the sound and acted as a
                    transmitter of all the ‘racket’ the prisoners
                        made."3 He insisted that this contraption
                    repeatedly warned him of the prisoners’ undue commotion and thus
                    prevented many from escaping. At any rate his Yankee ingenuity greatly impressed
                    local citizens.
            Originally a Whig, Peirec became an ardent abolitionist and later a stauch
                    Republican. In 1848 he served as a delegate to the Free Soil National Convention
                    in 
                  Buffalo, New York
               , which nominated Martin Van
                    Buren for president and considered nominating Henry L. Ellsworth of 
                        Lafayette
                     for vice-president.4
            
            Two years later Peirce was married to Emma L. Comstock of 
                        Hartford
                    , 
                        Connecticut
                    . They had four children but only two grew to maturity: Charles H.,
                    a successful banker, and Liezie P., who married Fred Ward, a local businessman.
                    They also adopted two children: Richard G. Peirce who was employed in his
                    father's bank, and Oliver W. Peirce who became one of the most
                    successful wholesale grocers in the state and whose popular
                    coffee—"Peirce's Golden
                    Rio"—was widely known throughout the 
                        United States
                    .5
            
            The year 1853 saw Peirce seriously launched on his career as a banker. It also
                    marked 
                        Lafayette
                    's incorporation as a city with a tax levy of forty cents
                    per hundred dollars. It was often called the "Star City"
                    because of its advantageous connection with 
                        Toledo
                     by means of the 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Erie
                     Canal, its accessibility by two railroads, later known as the Monon
                    and the 
                        Wabash
                    , and its situation in the midst of an excellent farming area. For
                    many years 
                        Lafayette
                     was the foremost pork-packing center in the Middle West and did the
                    largest wheat and flour business in Indiana.6 Before the
                    "iron horse" doniinated the stab's transportation
                    system, "
                        Lafayette
                     sold many more goods and had a larger market than did 
                        Indianapolis
                    ."7
            
            A century ago this bustling community was served by two daily newspapers and one
                    of these, the Daily Courier, had the 
                  
                     3
                            The 
                                    Lafayette
                                 Daily Courier, December 31, 1889.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., December 31, 1889.
                  
                     5 Richard P. De Hart, Past and
                                Present of 
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1909), II, 656-657.
                  
                     6 Logan Esarey, History of Indiana
                                From Its Exploration to 1912; Ah a Hist of 
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                 and 
                                    Wabash Valley
                                
                      (3 vols., 
                                Dayton
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , 1928), III, 55, 77.
                  
                     7 De Hart, Past and Present of 
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                
                     , I, 376.
               
                     largest circulation of any daily in
                        Indiana.8 More than a dozen churches contributed their
                    elevating influence.9 Literary societies conscientiously
                    attempted to improve the mind while promoting conviviality. Nevertheless a
                    contemporary regretted that at these gatherings, "pork, grain and beef,
                    and commerce generally, got the upper hand of literature, and the
                        lyceum.…"10 Less pretentious
                    recreation, however, was provided by the river's showboats which
                    brought "
                        Broadway
                    " or vaudeville to the avid populace." These
                    performances were designed to please all, from rural rustic to
                    "city" sophisticate, from sedate grandmother to adventurous
                    youth. So the 
                        Lafayette
                     of 1853 appeared, vibrant with its thriving industries, elated over
                    its river trade and confident of its future railroad traffic, slightly arrogant
                    in its self-reliance, and always cocksure that its present prosperity would be
                    eclipsed by its future greatness. It was, indeed, a pioneer city that had
                    successfully weathered its adolescence.
            Peirce, alert to the increasing demands of this thriving community, in 1853
                    persuaded three local men to join him in the establishment of the Commercial
                    Bank of 
                        Lafayette
                    . This was a private institution and, since in Indiana at that time
                    "anyone could start a bank who chose," provided he and his
                    associates could invest fifty thousand dollars, the character of the bankers was
                    more important than the amount of the institution's capital. During
                    that "free bank era" virtually the only restraints imposed on
                    a private bank were determined by the conscience and intelligence of the men who
                    ran it. In Peirce, the president of the new enterprise and one of the most
                    capable and respected gentlemen in the community for fifty years, the citizens
                    unhesitatingly placed their confidence. That trust was never violated during his
                    long career when he became not only "one of the men of note in the
                    banking history of 
                        Lafayette
                    " but also a citizen of distinction in the state of his
                        adoption.12
            
            The Commercial Bank even in those difficult times thrived under the direction of
                    Peirce and his associates. William Penn once said, "Governments like
                    clocks run 
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., I, 315.
                  
                     9 G. W. Harves (comp.), 
                        
                                    Lafayette City
                                 Directory—1868-1869 (
                                Lafayette
                            , 1858), 118-120.
                  
                     10 Sandford C. Cox, Recollections of
                                the Early Settlement of the 
                                    Wabash Valley
                                
                      (
                                Lafayette
                            , 1860), 82-83.
                  
                     11
                            The 
                                    Lafayette
                                 Daily Courier, April 26, 1853.
                  
                     12 De Hart, Past and Present of 
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                
                     , I, 470.
               
                     from the motion men give them." It
                    might also be noted that banks, too, go from the impetus men give them. The
                    Commercial Bank of 
                        Lafayette
                     received a stimulus from its founders which enabled it to be the
                    progenitor of the First Merchants National Bank and Trust Company which today
                    does a thriving business on the same spot where the Commercial Bank so ably
                    operated.
            Martin L. Peirce had rare prescience. Immediately after the passage of the
                    National Banking Act in 1863, he started negotiations with the Secretary of the
                    Treasury, Salmon P. Chase, which resulted in his securing one of the first
                    national bank charters in the 
                        United States
                    .13 The First National Bank of 
                        Lafayette
                     opened its doors on July 1, 1863, with Peirce as president and with
                    paid-up capital stock of $250,000. This new institution absorbed most
                    of the equipment as well as the depositors of the Commercial Bank which
                    henceforth ceased "the business of discounting commercial paper and
                    selling exchange."
            The First National, whose roots went back to 1853, did a flourishing business and
                    in 1918 after its amalgamation with the Merchants National Bank and the American
                    National Bank continued as the First Merchants National Bank and Trust Company.
                    Today this concern, with capital stock of over a million dollars, is one of the
                    leading financial institutions in northwestern Indiana.
            There is considerable evidence to substantiate the claim of the First National
                    Bank of 
                        Lafayette
                     that it was the first institution to complete its organization and
                    file its application under the new banking act. General Richard P. De Hart
                    voiced the opinion of many when he asserted that it "was robbed of the
                    coveted honor of being chartered No. 1, by some sort of discreditable
                    manipulation in 
                        Washington
                    ."14 The bank received the number
                    twenty-three which it retained until its reorganization in 1882.
            In later years national banks which desired to recover their original number were
                    permitted to do so by filing certain papers within a specified period. At that
                    time a local bank official whose superstition took precedence over his
                    historical sense feared that the number twenty-three was too closely associated
                    with the word "skidoo" for discreet use by a reputable 
                  
                     13 Martin L. Peirce Papers, in the possession of
                            the First Merchants National Bank and Trust Company, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     14 De Hart, Past and Present of 
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                
                     , I, 469.
               
                     bank. As a result the prospect of regaining
                    number twenty-three was surrendered for a number of more digits but of less
                    "hoodoo" association to the subsequent regret of the
                    bank's directors and of many local citizens.15
            
            Peirce served for twenty-six years as the exceptionally able president of the
                    First National. During the darkest days of the Civil War when money and credit
                    were not easily available, that institution under his wise guidance lent 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     fifteen thousand dollars to help it meet its war obligations.16 Peirce skillfully piloted the bank through the serious
                    panic of 1873. His extensive correspondence reveals how humanely and competently
                    he dealt with the bank's patrons. To every letter Peirce replied in
                    impeccable longhand, usually retaining a copy of his communication. His
                    promptness, discernment, sympathy and courtly politeness undoubtedly made
                    friends for his bank.17 He knew that its success depended
                    not only on handling the money of depositors and stockholders wisely but also on
                    treating patrons with friendly consideration.
            A. J. Roush, an admiring contemporary, characterized Peirce as "a true
                    representative of the Eastern man—full of resources, indomitable,
                    economical, successful.… As a business man… [he] is a
                    model to be followed."18 General De Hart, a loyal
                    friend, said of him, "AS a financier and banker-captain of industry,
                    his sound judgment, unusual executive ability and fidelity to duty placed the
                    institutions with which he was connected in the front rank of their
                        kind."19 Another acquaintance, Septemius Vater,
                    also spoke in highest terms of 
                  
                     15 Peirce Papers.
                  
                     16 De Hart, Past and Present of 
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                
                     , I, 222.
                  
                     17 Peirce Papers. For example, there was an
                            exchange of letters with the American Bible Society of 
                                New York
                             which sought information on the value of thirty-five shares
                            of First National Bank stock which had been willed to the Society. It
                            commended the bank's president on his careful and correct
                            handling of the entire transaction. From southern Indiana came word from
                            a gentleman who inquired for himself and daughter as to the exact amount
                            of the remaining sulus to which they were entitled when the bank
                            reorganized in 1882. A friendly and satisfactory answer was promptly
                            theirs. A 
                                Chicago
                             physician asked if the assets of the old ban% would be
                            divided by a certain date as he desired funds to finance the purchase of
                            a home for his son who had just been graduated from medical school. He
                            got an immediate and courteous reply.
                  
                     18 Kingman Brothers, Combination
                                Atlas Map of 
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                , Indiana (n.p., 1878), 39.
                  
                     19 De Hart, Past and Present of 
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                
                     , II, 543.
               
                     Peirce's sagacity and his
                    integrity but added that if he had a fault, it was being too indulgent with his
                    close friends.20
            
            In 1869 Peirce organized the 
                        Lafayette
                     Savings Bank, another institution which is still functioning
                    successfully. He characteristically took the position of vice-president and gave
                    the first post to John Purdue, his best friend.21
            
            Peirce was given credit for having inspired John Purdue with the idea of founding
                    a university. As these two gentlemen drove past a cemetery in which stood a very
                    costly monument, they commented on the unproductive use of so large an amount of
                    money. Peirce suggested to Purdue that he erect a more useful memorial to his
                    memory by leaving a substantial sum for the founding of a college which would
                    bear his name.22 The idea took hold and while "Mr.
                    Purdue gave the money, Mr. Peirce distinctly was the engineer.… On
                    any fair evaluation he must rank close to Mr. Purdue as benefactor" of
                    the university.23
            
            Peirce served on the board of trustees of Purdue University from 1870 to 1875 and
                    was treasurer of the board from 1870 until his death in 1889. The latter post
                    virtually made him the first functioning controller of the university. He and
                    his close friend Professor John S. Hougham, who later was acting president of
                    Purdue University (January to May, 1876), toured eastern universities in the
                    summer of 1872 and studied the plants at 
                        Massachusetts
                     Institute of Technology, Amherst, and 
                        Brown
                     University as a preparation for aiding the projected building
                    program at Purdue.24 As a member of the
                    university's building committee, Peirce laid out its grounds, gave ten
                    thousand tree seedlings and other plantings, donated one thousand dollars for a
                    university greenhouse which bears his name and is still in use, and planned the
                    water supply. He spent regularly his salary of six hundred dollars per year as
                    treasurer on the further development of the campus. He not only guarded
                    zealously the institution's credit but it was in serious financial
                    straits, he provided from his own personal resources the necessary cash or
                        collateral.25
            
            Peirce's counsel was sought in other than financial matters. 
                  
                     20 Ibid., I, 470.
                  
                  
                     21 George W. Munro, The New
                            Purdue—Sketches of Hitching Rack Days, in the possession of
                            the Editor of Purdue University.
                  
                     22 De Hart, Past and Present of 
                                    Tippecanoe County
                                
                     , II, 542.
                  
                     23 Munro, The New Purdue.
                  
                     24 Thomas R. Johnston and Helen Hand, The Trustees and Officers of Purdue
                            University—1865-1940 (
                                Lafayette
                            , 1940), 410.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., 21.
               
                     Repeatedly he was consulted in the
                    selection of Purdue's faculty and also in the choice of the first
                    acting president, Abram C. Shortridge. In 1882 Peirce was so impressed with the
                    baccalaureate address of President Emerson E. White that he had it printed at
                    his own expense. This was a significant as well as an able summary of
                    White's ideals and aims for the university and is probably the first
                    comprehensive statement of educational policy made by a responsible officer of
                    the institution.26
            
            Peirce found his post as treasurer and its ramifications almost a full-time job
                    and one which frequently had unpleasant aspects. Notwithstanding, he
                    "gave time… understanding, special knowledge and
                    tact… and smoothed Mr. Purdue's ruffled
                    disposition.… He made a success of Mr. Purdue's venture and
                    carefully remained in the background."27 It was
                    Peirce who, on August 9,1871, broke the ground, throwing the first shovelful of
                    dirt, for the start of Purdue University.
            Peirce served for many years on the board of trustees of 
                        Franklin
                     College and later in a similar capacity for the University of 
                        Chicago
                    . Moreover, he was held in such high esteem by the Association of
                    American Bankers that at their national convention in 1887 he was honored both
                    for his talents and his years as he was the oldest of the four hundred bankers
                    present.
            He had a lifelong predilection for humanitarian causes. As a vigorous opponent of
                    slavery he not only joined the Free Soil Party but willingly abetted the
                    Underground Railroad. When he was sheriff, a 
                        Kentucky
                     master sought two runaway slaves in 
                        Lafayette
                     who were expected to arrive there by river packet. Peirce told the
                    slaveholder that Lewis Falley, the deputy sheriff, also a "red
                    hot" Free Soiler, would meet the packet. This Falley did, immediately
                    and surreptitiously sending on the fugitives by fast express into 
                        Canada
                    . The slaves’ master, violently angered when he realized
                    he had been outwitted, threatened terrible reprisals for the sheriff.28 The latter was not intimidated however, and continued to
                    befriend Negroes as long as he lived.
            On a later occasion he took into his home two fugitives, a colored woman and her
                    child, whom he found at the nearby town of Montmorenci. A large reward was
                    offered for their 
                  
                     26 Munro, The New Purdue.
                  
                            27
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     28
                            The 
                                    Lafayette
                                 Daily Courier, December 31,1889.
               
                     capture and southern officers came to 
                        Lafayette
                     to search the community. They discovered where the Negroes were but
                    Peirce defied anyone to lay hands on the refugees in his house and the thwarted
                    officers in sullen anger returned to Dixie. Peirce protected the unfortunate
                    victims until all danger passed and then saw that provision was made for their
                    needs.
            In 1861 Frederick Douglass visited 
                        Lafayette
                    . Peirce, who did not yet enjoy the wealth and prestige of his later
                    years, quietly defied the strong opposition of many local citizens, entertaining
                    the famous colored abolitionist and driving him through the city in his
                    carriage.
            On a trip to 
                        England
                     in 1867, Peirce gained admission to the House of Commons where he
                    was thrilled by one of the great parliamentary speeches of the
                    century—John Bright's famous plea for the extension of
                    suffrage. A great admirer of the well-known temperance lecturer, John B. Cough,
                    Peirce entertained him in his home on several occasions.
            Peirce found great satisfaction in his church connection and gave generously of
                    his time and means to the support and activities of the First Baptist Church. He
                    donated one-third of the ninety thousand dollars required to build the church;
                    he presented the structure and lot for the parish house and chapel; he furnished
                    five thousand dollars to build a library and an additional five thousand dollars
                    for books. He offered forty thousand dollars to the church with which to erect
                    an orphange, but this gift was declined. These donations were made quietly, with
                    no notice in the local papers; the knowledge of them did not come until years
                    after his death and was obtained from church and other public records.29 Also, he gave repeatedly and annonymously to local causes
                    and needy persons.
            Even in the sanguine and versatile Victorian era, it was unusual that Peirce
                    combined successfully the roles of shrewd and able banker, uncompromising
                    reformer, tolerant and enlightened educator, and benevolent humanitarian. He
                    "amassed one of the handsomest fortunes possessed in the
                        County"30 without acquiring the arrogance of
                    the self-made man. At the time of his death, one of the local papers remarked
                    that his two distinguishing traits were strength and gentleness.31 His long and honorable career well substantiated such an appraisal.
            
               
                  39 Munro, The New Purdue.
               
                  30
                        
                     
                                Lafayette
                             Morning Journal, December 30, 1889.
               
                  31
                        The 
                                Lafayette
                             Weekly Courier, December 31, 1889.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            An Indiana College Boy in 1836: The Diary of Richard Henry Holman
            
                    Edited, with an Introduction, by Holman 
                            Hamilton
                        
               
                    *
                
            Richard Henry Holman was born February 24, 1817, at
                    "Veraestau," near 
                  Aurora, Dearborn
                    County
               , Indiana.1 His parents, Jesse
                    Lynch and Elizabeth Masterson Holman, had come to Indiana Territory in
                    1811—the year after their marriage and also the year immediately
                    following publication of Jesse Holman's novel, The
                        Prisoners of Niagara.
            
            Richard's father was a lawyer, politician, minister, and judge; he was
                    one of the fourteen children of Henry Holeman [sic], who lost
                    his life at the hands of hostile Indians in 
                        Kentucky
                     when Jesse was a child. Richard's mother was the daughter
                    of Richard Masterson, an early settler of 
                        Mason County
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    . In 
                        Kentucky
                    , the Mastersons were probably more prosperous and prominent than
                    the Holmans, who seem to have been left almost destitute by the death of their
                        breadwinner.2 Not unnaturally, Jesse and Elizabeth
                    Holman named their eldest son in honor of his two grandfathers.
            Since Richard Henry Holman was to die in 1841 at the age of twenty-four, he had
                    no opportunity to realize the ambition of his college days, reflected in this
                    diary. It may be of interest to note, however, that both his father and his
                    brother were leading Hoosiers. Richard's younger brother, William s.
                    Holman (1822-1897), was elected to Congress sixteen
                    times—distinguishing himself in the House of Representatives, and
                    setting a national record (since broken) for duration of service. Jesse L.
                    Holman, less popular in politics, was defeated for the 
                        United States
                     Senate but won a reputation for judicial ability in the courts of
                    the territory, state, and nation.3
            
            
               
                  * Holman 
                            Hamilton
                         is the author of Zachary Taylor: Soldier in the
                            White House (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1951). He is a doctoral candidate in history at the University
                        of 
                            Kentucky
                        , 
                            Lexington
                        .
               
                  1 Holman monument, 
                            Aurora
                         Cemetery, 
                            Aurora
                        , Indiana. Inscription secured through the courtesy of Cornelius
                        O'Brien and John T. Gibson.
               
                  2 I. George Blake, The Holmans of
                            Veraestau (Oxford, Ohio, 1943), 1-7.
               
                  3 William A. Robinson, "William Steele
                        Holman," Dictionary of American Biography (20
                        vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1943), IX, 168-159; Blake, Holmans of Veraestau,
                            passim.
               
            
            
            It may be illuminating, too, to recall the literary strain in the Holman line.
                    Many members of the family have been great readers. Several of
                    Richard's collateral descendants (notably Edith 
                        Hamilton
                    , Alice 
                        Hamilton
                    , and Holman Harvey) have distinguished themselves as authors. In
                    his youth, Jesse Lynch Holman had literary aspirations. His novel, The Prisoners of Niagara, or Errors of Education, was a rather
                    primitive effort if judged by modern standards. But the fact that it was
                    published in Frankfort, Kentucky, in 1810, made him Kentucky's first
                    native novelist. And, when he crossed the 
                        Ohio River
                     to build his house on Indiana soil, he became Indiana's
                    first resident novelist. Although The Prisoners of Niagara is
                    by no means a great book or even a good one, a quirk of fate makes it widely
                    sought today. Dear to Jesse Holman's heart was his association with the
                    Baptist Church. Taking an active part in Baptist activities, and becoming a
                    Baptist minister as well, Judge Holman decided that the writing of his young
                    manhood did not square with his later conception of Christian precepts.
                    Thereupon, he bought and burned all the copies he could find,4 with the result that only two are known to exist. In 1953, The Prisoners of Niagara is a collector's item, which many
                    collectors wish they could acquire.
            Deeply interested in education, Jesse Holman was a founder of 
                        Franklin
                     College in 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana. He was also a founder and the original second
                    vice-president of the Indiana Historical Society.5 He sent
                    his son Richard to Indiana College for his formal education. Richard, a member
                    of the Class of 1837, received his A.B. and A.M. degrees at 
                        Bloomington
                     when Andrew Wylie was the college's president, and when
                    the institution was barely beginning to grow into the great university it has
                        become.6
            
            Richard Holman wrote the diary, which follows, in 1836 and 1837. He was then
                    nineteen, a college junior whose preparation had been obtained at the 
                        Aurora
                     Seminary and the Rising Sun Seminary.7 In
                    several respects he appears 
                  
                     4 R. E. Banta (comp.) Indiana Authors
                                and Their Books, 1816-1916… (
                                Crawfordsville
                            , 1949), 151-153.
                  
                     5 Blake, Holmans of Veraestau,
                            35, 39-41.
                  
                     6 Theophilus A. Wylie, Indiana
                                University, Its History from 1820, When Founded, to 1890 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1890), 177-178. Indiana College became Indiana University
                            in 1838.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 177-178.
                  
               
                     to have been a naif country
                    youth—-at times humorous, and observant beyond his years, but often
                    mirroring his own inexperience as well as the fads and foibles of his day.
            Twentieth-century males are likely to find young Richard's interest in
                    Miss Louisa Howe an understandable one, though he must have been hard up for
                    feminine company to pay much attention to another girl, only thirteen years old.
                    Occasionally, his comments on his teachers and fellow students (as well as 
                        Bloomington
                    's belles) have a modern ring. The diarist's
                    preoccupation with Indiana College's literary societies, the Athenian
                    and the Philomathean, will surprise social historians less than some college
                    juniors of twelve decades later—who channelize their own energies and
                    enthusiasms through basketball, football, sororities, and fraternities.
            The diary has presented certain problems. Richard Holman devoted most of the
                    small, leather-spined volume8 to a running account of local
                    news and personal observation. Other sections seem less worthy of preservation
                    in print (notably, Holman's quotations from the fiction and poetry he
                    fancied), and these are omitted here. It does appear germane, however, to
                    mention that "Beauties of Waverley Novels" were emphasized by
                    the Hoosier collegian on the first page of the unpublished portion. Sir Walter
                    Scott's influence is clear elsewhere, his books being given third place
                    (after the Bible and Shakespeare) on a roster of twenty-three books "to
                    be purchased as soon as my circumstances will admit."
            Similarly, researchers may find significant the following 
                  
                     
                        "List of Scientific works recommended by Dr.
                                        Wylie":9 "Home Tookes
                                    diversions of Purley; Dr. Priestlys Lectures on History; 
                                        Butler
                                    's Analogy of Religion; Brewsters Natural
                                    Magic; Read on the nervous affections; Watts on the Mind;
                                    Lelands view of Deistical writers; 
                                        Campbell
                                    's dissertation on Miracles; Goods Book of
                                    Nature; Comparative Anatomy; Smith on Complexion;
                                    Smith's Theory of Moral Sentiments; Natural History of
                                    Insects (Harper's family Library); Scott's
                                    demonology and Witchcraft; Jefferson on the tendency of 
                              
                                 8 The little book is 4 inches by 6
                                            inches. The boards are covered with marbled paper.
                              
                                 9 Spelling and capitalization
                                            errors in the original have been reproduced here.
                                            Neither italics nor title quotation marks have been
                                            added. Semicolons have been inserted, and the list
                                            otherwise altered only so as to appear in sentence
                                        form.
                           
                                     domestic slavery;
                                    Fedralist; Memoirs of La Raujacqueline;10
                                    Smith's Wealth of Nations; Ricardo; Malthus on
                                    Population; Say's Political economy."11
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            Between the last item above and quotations from Hamlet, Holman
                    sandwiched the membership rolls of the Philomatheans and Athenians as of July 2,
                    1836. Holman's own Philomatheans come first:
            
               
                  1
                  Armstrong, Edwin L.
                  
                     
                                Hamilton
                             Co. 
                                Ohio
                            .
                  Sophomore
               
               
                  2
                  Ballard, C. G.
                  
                     
                                Bloomington
                            , Ia.
                  M.D.
               
               
                  3
                  Barwick, Joshua
                  
                     
                                Brookville
                             Ia.
                  Preparatory D.
               
               
                  4
                  Clark, John M.
                  Vincenes Ia.
                  Do
               
               
                  5
                  Davis, Henry C.
                  
                     
                                Lexington
                            , Ky
                  Do
               
               
                  6
                  Dodds, Jas F.
                  
                     
                                Bloomington
                             Ia.
                  A.M.
               
               
                  7
                  Dunbar, John W.
                  Natches, Miss.
                  Freshman
               
               
                  8
                  Geiger, Samul L.
                  
                     
                                Louisville
                             Ky.
                  Junior
               
               
                  9
                  
                     
                                Henderson
                            , Benj L.
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Ia.
                  Freshman
               
               
                  10
                  Hillis, William C.
                  
                     
                                Madison
                             Ia.
                  Sophomore
               
               
                  11
                  Holman, Richard Henry
                  
                     
                                Aurora
                            , Ind.
                  Junior
               
               
                  12
                  Laselle, James M.
                  
                     
                                Logansport
                             Ia.
                  Jn'r Irreg
               
               
                  13
                  
                     
                                Leavenworth
                            , S. M.
                  
                     
                                Leavenworth
                             Ia.
                  Freshman
               
               
                  14
                  Mayes Robt Burns
                  
                     
                                Lexington
                             Ky.
                  P.D.
               
               
                  15
                  Prester Joshua
                  Missippi
                  Sophomore
               
               
                  16
                  Stapp, Howard
                  
                     
                                Madison
                            , Ind'a
                  Soph.
               
               
                  17
                  Thomas, Charles B.
                  
                     
                                Lexington
                            , Ky.
                  Pre. Dep.
               
               
                  18
                  West George
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Ia.
                  Soph
               
               
                  19
                  Willis William
                  
                     
                                Boone
                             Co. Ky.
                  Junior
               
               
                  20
                  Wright, George G. K.
                  
                     
                                Bloomington
                             Ia.
                  Freshman
               
               
                  21
                  Duncan, Charles B.
                  Bowlingreene Ky.
                  P.D.
               
            
            Next, Holman listed the Athenians about whom he felt so strongly:
            
               
                  1
                  Barber, Orson
                  Terra Haute
                  Soph
               
               
                  2
                  Barwick Joseph
                  
                            
                                Brookville
                            
                        
                  "
               
               
                  3
                  Beaty, Davis S.
                  Do
                  F.
               
               
                  4
                  
                     
                                Campbell
                             M.M.
                  
                     
                                Louisville
                             Ky.
                  Senior
               
               
                  5
                  Clement Mr.
                  
                            
                                Princeton
                            
                        
                  F
               
               
                  6
                  Daily Rev. W.M.
                  Everywhere
                  Se
               
               
                  7
                  Fanning, Rev. Mr.
                  south
                  P.D.
               
               
                  8
                  Geiger Jon. S.
                  
                     
                                Louisville
                             Ky.
                  F.
               
               
                  9
                  Hoge Mr.
                  
                            
                                Princeton
                            
                        
                  F.
               
               
                  10
                  Jones Wm. H.
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
                  Se
               
               
                  11
                  Lanier Alex. C.
                  
                            
                                Madison
                            
                        
                  F.
               
               
                  12
                  Lowe, Jesse W.
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
                  Se 
                        
                           10 Probably Marie Louise Victoire,
                                    Marquise de La Rochejacquelein, whose Mémoires were published in 1815 and
                                    translated into English by Sir Walter Scott (Edinburgh, 1827).
                        
                           11 Holman enumerated other titles he
                                    desired, but did not identify them with President
                                    Wylie's recommendations.
                     
                  
               
               
               
                  13
                  McClurkin Jno. J.
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
                  Se
               
               
                  14
                  McAfee, Geo.
                  
                            
                                Kentucky
                            
                        
                  Junior
               
               
                  15
                  Modesitt, W.M.
                  Terra Haute
                  J
               
               
                  16
                  Maxwell, Frank
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
                  So
               
               
                  17
                  Morrison, Mr.
                  —
                  So
               
               
                  18
                  McCall, Wm.
                  Terra Haute
                  F.
               
               
                  19
                  Posey, Lloyd T.
                  Corrydon
                  Se
               
               
                  20
                  Parker, J.W.H.
                  Accomac Va
                  J.
               
               
                  21
                  Parks, Saml
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
                  so
               
               
                  22
                  Roache, A.L.
                  
                            
                                Rockford
                            
                        
                  Se
               
               
                  23
                  Serring J.G.
                  
                            
                                Madison
                            
                        
                  so
               
               
                  24
                  Sheets, Geo. S.
                  Do
                  Jun
               
               
                  25
                  Thixten, Andrew J.
                  Corrydon
                  Sen
               
               
                  26
                  Townsend, Jas. M.
                  
                     
                                Putnam
                             Co.
                  so
               
               
                  27
                  Wylie Craig
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
                  so
               
               
                  28
                  Wright Lester
                  Terra Haute
                  P.D.
               
               
                  29
                  Nichols Joseph
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
                  J
               
            
            Although the bulk of the diary was penned when Holman was a junior, the last two
                    narrative entries were written in his senior year. Toward the end, he gave the
                    names of the "Members of the Senior Class of Ind. College," as
                    of December 29, 1836. This class roll postdates most of the diary proper, but
                    due to the form in which it is presented, warrants inclusion at this point. At
                    the bottom of the same page, incidentally, Holman made this further comment at
                    an unknown time: "Poor Tom (McElrath) He is now no more— He
                    died far from Home deprived of the soothing attention of a mother to her dying
                    son." The asterisks after the names of Gorman, Millen, and Morrison
                    indicate that they were irregular members:
            
               
                  John Dail
                  
                     
                                Logansport
                             Ia
               
               
                  Samuel L. Geiger
                  
                     
                                Louisville
                             Ky
               
               
                  Willis A. Gorman*
                  
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Richd H Holman
                  
                     
                                Aurora
                             Ia
               
               
                  George McAfee
                  Rural Plains Ky
               
               
                  E.D.C. McElrath
                  
                     
                                Helena
                            , Arkan
               
               
                  Thos. J. McElrath
                  Do Do
               
               
                  S.C. Millen*
                  
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
               
               
                  W.M. Modesitt
                  Terra Haute Ia
               
               
                  Jno Morrison*
                  
                  
                            
                                Illinois
                            
                        
               
               
                  Joseph F. Nichols
                  
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                        
               
               
                  Jno W.H. Parker
                  Accomac Co. Va.
               
               
                  Hugh T. Read
                  Liberty Ia
               
               
                  George S. Sheets
                  
                     
                                Madison
                             Ia
               
               
                  William Willis
                  
                     
                                Boone
                             Co. Ky
               
            
            
            After completing his association with Indiana College, Richard Holman studied law
                    at and near 
                        Aurora
                     under his father who served as Federal District Judge by
                    appointment of President Andrew Jackson from 1836 to 1842. "Within two
                    years," wrote Theophilus A. Wylie, the young man "reached the
                    front rank in his profession at the bar of the county seat of 
                        Dearborn County
                    , then one of the ablest in the State. By his incessant labor he
                    brought on the disease of which he died, in the 24th year of his
                        age."12
            
            Actually, Richard Henry Holman was nearly twenty-five when he passed away on
                    December 27, 1841, following an "extended illness"13 which may have been tuberculosis. He never married.
                    Instead of being handed down to "Posterity" through his
                    non-existent "oldest son" as Richard Holman planned, his diary
                    eventually came into possession of his sister's granddaughter, Miss
                    Jessie 
                        Hamilton
                    , who graciously presented it to me. It covers (with interruptions
                    of varying lengths) the period from May 23 to September 23, 1536, and also
                    August 9 and 11, 1837:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    My own Meditations.
                                
                        It's raining:—dull uncomfortable weather. I
                                    have nothing to read except the sublime pages of Mitchels
                                    chemistry. I can't walk out. I have no one to talk to.
                                    Beaty is as grum as an five years old bull, and is hamering away
                                    at his eis, mia, en.14 I'm hungry.
                                    "What in the name of all the Gods at once"
                                    makes supper so late. Our cook must have something to make her
                                    more lively— a little beech oil would have a
                                    beneficial effect. I'm misanthropic. A man is alway so
                                    when hungry. I then have good reason to be so, as I am not only
                                    hungry but I'm mad. I'm cold and wet and dry
                                    and thirsty. What, oh! what's keeps supper back. The
                                    bells have been ringing for an hour past. I'm mad,
                                    I'm hungry. Thank God supper is ready at last.
                                    I'll write no more till I'm in a better
                                    humor—May 23rd 1836[.]
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  12 Louis B. Ewbank, "Judges of the Federal
                        District Court of Indiana," Indiana Magazine of
                            History (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1905), XXXV (1939), 373-375; Wylie, Indiana
                            University, 177-178.
               
                  13 Holman monument; Blake, Holmans of
                            Veraestau, 42, 242.
               
                  14 David S. Beaty of 
                            Brookville
                         was Holman's roommate. The "eis, mia,
                        en" reference is to the study of Greek grammar.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Monday May 30th 1836.
                        Read 36 pages of the sublime Mitchel. Part of it over twice. Just
                                    returned from electioneering for members for the
                                    "Philomathean Society" [.] Got several in a
                                    fine way. Received Presler No. 1 and Barwick on last evening.15 Society looking up. Want my supper. Had
                                    no letter from Home for five weeks. Wonder if they are all
                                    dead? satis est pro ten[.]
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           Diary for June—1836[.]
                        I visited Miss Louisa Howe.16 Spent an hour
                                    very pleasantly in her society. Engaged her to walk with me down
                                    to see Mrs. Thos. Wilson, an old sweat heart of mine, on
                                    Saturday next, day after tomorrow. Read fifteen pages in
                                    Mitchells Chemistry. Commenced reading Bulwers Eugene Aram. The
                                    sentiments of one of the characters in that work, a fatalist and
                                    Eugene Aram himself, I have copied down the 20th page of this
                                    book. There is notwithstanding its dark and gloomy sentiments,
                                    and such as are scarcely ever found to be the sentiments of any
                                    in this day, nothing original in it. But then its beauty
                                    deserves a place in this work.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        7th.
                        I commenced this diary with the intention of keeping it
                                    regularly. But now nearly a week has passed without writing.
                                    Last Friday we received into the Society,17
                                    Dunbar, Clark, Thomas and Duncan, making, in all nine, we have
                                    received since the commencement of the session. The members of
                                    the Athenian Society are getting scared. They curse me on every
                                    hand. Sheets passes coldly by me. Lowe and I understand each
                                    other. Dr Modisette is a hypocrite,8 he
                                    pretends to my face to be friendly, but showers his curses on
                                    me, when I am not present. 
                                        Brown
                                     has just told me he 
                              
                                 15 Joshua Presler and Joshua
                                            Barwick. Holman misspelled Presler's family
                                            name in the Philomathean list.
                              
                                 16 Miss Louisa Jane Howe
                                            (1819-1907) was the daughter of Joshua Owen and Lucinda
                                            Allison Howe. She married James Darwin Maxwell on July
                                            6, 1843. For many years her father was an Indiana
                                            University trustee. Her husband practiced medicine in 
                                                Bloomington
                                             nearly half a century. Lawrence Wheeler,
                                            "The Minutes of the Edgeworthalean Society,
                                            1840-1844," Indiana Magazine of
                                                History, XLVI (1950), 180; Burton D. Myers, Trustees and Officers of Indiana
                                                University, 1820 to 1950 (
                                                Bloomington
                                            , 1951), 24, 255-257.
                              
                                 17 "The Society"
                                            is the Philomathean Society, of which Holman was an
                                            ardent member. It was founded in 1831, and its Athenian
                                            rival in 1830. James A. Woodburn, History
                                                of Indiana University, 1890-1902 (
                                                Bloomington
                                            , 1940), 77.
                              
                                 18 These were all
                                        Athenians.
                           
                                     intends joining the At.
                                    Society, but I shall not give him up, without another trial. Nil
                                    desperandum. Last evening I called upon Miss L.H.19 interesting as ever. I'm almost inclined
                                    to fall in love with her. I will not do, however—
                                    "Let the aspiring youth beware of love of the soft
                                    smooth smile beware—"
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        July 12th.
                        Since my last entry I have attended three times, "Frost,
                                    Heustis & CO'S" circus, which cost me
                                    75 cents. Last Friday we received into Society, Mr.
                                        Armstrong,20 a member of the Sophomore
                                    Class from Miami University. He is a talented young
                                    man—The Athenians made every exertion to get him, but
                                    in vain. I, yesterday, called upon Miss Sarah Tupman. Almost in
                                    love with her, I must not call on her more than once in three
                                    weeks, or I may fall in love, which heaven prevent.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        End of Diary for the time being, June 23rd ‘36
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        26.
                        Went to church to hear the Rev. Wm. M. Daily21 preach, but was dissapointed A stranger occupied his
                                    place. A tolerable good sermon. Made a collection and I had not
                                    a cent to throw in. Getting pretty well through chemistry.
                                    Attended Jas. G. MacPheters22 and Clara
                                    Dunn's wedding, on last Thursday evening. Considered
                                    myself highly honored by an invitation. Spent the greater part
                                    of the evening in company of Miss Louisa J. Howe. Almost in love
                                    with her. A fine girl.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        27.
                        I took a walk to the grave of William Wylie, who died in April
                                        1835.23 While standing by his grave,
                                    with a pencil and paper, I could not forbear committing the
                                    following reflection to paper :-
                        Here lie the mouldering remains of a brother Philomathean and one
                                    of my best friends. He died in April 1836. I 
                              
                                 19 Miss Louisa Howe.
                              
                                 20 Edwin L. Armstrong.
                              
                                 21 Dr. William M. Daily was both a
                                            Methodist minister and an Indiana College student in
                                            1835-1836, graduating in the latter year. Later, he was
                                            president of Indiana University. Myers, Trustees and Officers of Indiana University,
                                            455-460; Woodburn, History o Indiana
                                                University, passin., picture, opposite 135;
                                            Wylie, Indiana University, 96-97.
                              
                                 22 This was Dr. Joseph Glass
                                            McPheeters, Class of 1834, who became a leading 
                                                Bloomington
                                             physician and "was very active in
                                            the Alumni Association, and a constant worker and a
                                            devoted friend of the University." Woodburn,
                                                History of Indiana University,
                                            329, 400.
                              
                                 23 William Wylie, third child of
                                            President +drew Wylie, died. in
                                            1835—not 1836, as Holman later states. Wylie,
                                                Indiana University, 462.
                              
                           
                                     was sick, during his fatal
                                    illness, and consequently had not an opportunity of visiting
                                    him. The last night he spent. in health was spent at my bed
                                    side. I was then dangerously ill, many had given up all hopes of
                                    my recovery. but Oh! how anxious was I to hear from my dear
                                    friend William, who was lying but a few hundred yards from me. I
                                    was anxious to hear the steps of Dr. Maxwell our attending
                                        phisician24 more on account of hearing
                                    from William than for my own benefit. At last I heard of his
                                    death. My feelings cannot be described: My best friend among the
                                    students, had ceased to exist. The world was no more his
                                    dwelling place. His lamp of life had gone out. I was then
                                    through the mercies of a kind providence, recovering, and was
                                    able to walk to the window and see the funeral procession as it
                                    slowly proceded across the College Campus—-to the grave
                        
                        William and myself belonged to the same society, oh! how every
                                    circumstance connected with him and that society now crowds upon
                                    my mind He always was my friend He always did
                                    me justice—more than justice. At one time the society
                                    was divided into two parties which threatened its dissolution.
                                    William and myself belonged to the same party, in opposition to
                                    Watts, McPheters & Co.
                        Wylie moved Watts’ expulsion I seconded the motion. We
                                    succeeded by a small majority.
                        William was unpopular among the students;—he was too
                                    aristocratic in his principles. He had but two intimates among
                                    the students, Parker 
                                        Campbell
                                     and myself. Oh! he was a noble fellow! too noble to
                                    be spared to his friends. He is gone, my friend lies beneath my
                                    feet—His body lies mouldering beneath the clay. but
                                    his sould is indestructible, and in an endless
                                    eternity—in a world where death will no more enter.
                                    His memory is still fresh in my mind. My heart will forever
                                    cherish it! Never, William will the memory of your
                                    friendship—your virtues and your noble character, be
                                    forgotten by your surviving friend.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        28.
                        I took a surveying expedition with the other members of 
                              
                                 24 Dr. David H. Maxwell, at this
                                            time resident of the Indiana College Board of Trustees,
                                            was the father of fames D. Maxwell.
                           
                                     the Junior Class and old
                                    Dady 
                                        Campbell
                                    .25 Elliott,26 chief Engineer. I was elevated to the responsible
                                    office of chain bearer. Got heartily tired of it before the
                                    "survey" was closed. Went home (Bennetts) and
                                    found that supper was not ready, which hurt my feelings very
                                    much. Got a glimpse of Miss Louisa to day. Received a day or two
                                    since a letter from G.A.W. Pope Esqr. of 
                                        Bardstown
                                    , formerly a student of Ia. College and member of
                                    the Philomathean Society. He desires to continue a
                                    correspondence I have since written to him and will continue to
                                    correspond with him, if not prevented by some unforseen
                                    circumstance. He is a fine fellow, but had to leave this
                                    institution.… Mirabile dictu.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        29.
                        -Went to church on the 29 and brought home Miss Louisa Howe.
                                    Daddy 
                                        Campbell
                                     took her there. It was prayre meeting, and after
                                    night.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        30.
                        I have just made a note of last evenings
                                    "scrape." I congratulate myself, on having
                                    finished "Mitchells Chemistry" to day. My pen
                                    is so bad, I'll write no more, but only to fill our the
                                    present page, to be able to; commence my Diary for July on a new
                                    page!!!!
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        July 2nd. 
                        I have been melancholly, throughout the day. There is an evident
                                    coldness on the part of several of my Athenian friends, toward
                                    me. If I rightly conjecture the reason, it is because I am
                                    particularly friendly with Davis. Sheets’ coldness is
                                    most apparent. Davis is a young man of talent,27 and I will associate with him and treat him as my
                                    friend, if all my old pretended friends secede. Let them go.
                                    With some—
                        
                                    Friendship is but a name
                                    A charm that lulls to rest:
                                    A shade that follows wealth and fame
                                    But leaves the wretch to weep
                                
                        
                           
                              25 Matthew M. Campbell, long the
                                        principal of the Preparatory Department. Woodburn, History of Indiana University, 84,
                                        picture, opposite 71.
                           
                              26 Ebenezer N. Elliott, professor of
                                        mathematics and physics at Indiana College from 1832 to
                                        1836, subsequently, a well-known educator in the South and
                                        compiler and part author of Cotton is King, and
                                            Pro-Slavery Arguments… (
                                            Atlanta
                                         and Augusta, 
                                            Georgia
                                        , 1860). Wylie, Indiana
                                        University, 105; Woodburn, History of
                                            Indiana University, 83, 98-101.
                           
                              27 Since the first names and middle
                                        initials of Henry C. Davis, George S. Sheets and other
                                        students appear in Philomathean, Athenian or Class of 1837
                                        rosters, they will not be additionally identified in the
                                        footnotes.
                        
                        
                        Tis thus with them. Wrote to Harris, and commenced a letter to
                                    Pope.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                         July 5th.
                        I yesterday attended the celebration of American Independence.
                                    Dr. Foster, orater of the day,28 made a very
                                    good performance. I attended Miss L.H. during the day.
                                    &c &c I this day promise myself to abstain from
                                    the pleasure or dissipation of smoking, which I have for a
                                    considerable length of tim yielded to, untill the close of the
                                    present session of College. Shall I suceed? I am
                                    determined to. if I yield (which God preserve me from) the day
                                    and fact shall be inserted in this diary, which I intend
                                    preserving and give to my oldest son, and to be transmitted in
                                    like order to posterity, for ever, for all I care. I write for
                                    immortality
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        9th,
                        Old habits are hard to be rooted out. It is a thing almost
                                    impossible. I yesterday yielded to the dissipation mentioned in
                                    my diary of July 5th, but will do so no more till the close of
                                    the session. The Philomathean Society last evening elected the
                                    following speakers for the ensuing exhibition—Geiger
                                    Stapp, Davis, Armstrong Willis & myself. We'll
                                    try to beat the Athenians
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        July 20th.
                        I have lately found out one inportant fact—I have
                                    learned it by sad experience, that if a man wishes to keep a
                                    fact from being generally known, he must confine the knowledge
                                    of it to himself. Trust not intimate friends,
                                        especially if those friends are females[.] I have lately by confiding to some friends,
                                    been injured. I have confided the knowledge of some society
                                    affairs to some of my fellow members, and they
                                        became public. I have therefore come to this
                                    determination, never to trust a secret, the disclosure of which
                                    would injure me, to any one, unless nay own
                                        interest requires it, or I believe that circumstances
                                    render it necessary. This shall be my course
                                        through life. Bosen friends are not always to be
                                    trusted. Just returned from "calling" on Cousin Sarah Tupman,—a charming
                                    girl.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        26th.
                        I am in love. By my soul I am—With whom?
                                    Must I disclose "the actual fact" with Miss
                                    Sarah A. Tupman—Yes. with Sarah A. Tupman. I cannot
                                    help it. She is worthy the love love and envy
                                    of everyone.
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  28 Probably Dr. William C. Faster of 
                            Bloomington
                        , President Wylie's b≖te
                        noire. Woodburn, History of Indiana University,
                        119-120.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        27th. 
                        I have just eaten my dinner, and a most exelent one it was.
                                    Otherwise I should not mention it, in this journal which I am
                                    writing for the benefit of posterity. We had—what do
                                    you think? Why nothing but bread and
                                        milk (every day's fare) two finely broiled
                                    chickens, new potatoes and a dozen other luxuries. Oh! it was a glorious dinner—Mrs.
                                    Bennett is a good coock
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        29th.
                        I last evening visited Miss S.A.T. I love her: truly ardently
                                    love her—but as yet that love is not returned
                        
                                    It is the worst of pain
                                    To love and not be loved again
                                
                        I believe she is decidedly partial to Mr. Jno. S. Geiger a very
                                    clever fellow. Well, let her love him. On the whole it is best
                                    for me. I must not get involved in "love
                                    scrapes" for some years to come. Untill I have studied
                                    a proffession, and in a fair way for making a comfortable living
                                    for a family. I am not, either an individual,
                                    who will long "love and not be loved again"
                                    When I entirely give away my affections, I must have, in return,
                                    the warm, unadulterated love of the object of
                                    mine. "Amor" non "vincit
                                    omnia"
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        July 31st. Sunday.
                        I received on last evening a letter from E. Dumont, Esqr a young
                                    lawyer of 
                              Wilmington, Dearborn
                            Co. Indiana. He professes
                                    great friendship for me. I wrote to him this morning and
                                    returned his sentiments toward me. It is best to make friends
                                    through life whenever, and wherever we can. There are several
                                    young men in this state who in a few years will be distinguished
                                    lawyers, with whom I am on remarkably friendly terms, whose
                                    friendship I shall cherish, and keep alive by every means in my
                                    power. There are Dumont, O'Neal & Harris. With
                                    the rest I am ‘too little acquainted to form a
                                    favorable opinion, and am by no means disposed to form an
                                    unfavorable one. O'Neal is an ambitious, selfish
                                    fellow, but he possesses talents. And I believe that it would be
                                    poor policy for me to treat him in any other, than a friendly
                                    manner. He and Dumont are not friends. Harris is a talented
                                    young man. His principles and moral character are
                                    unexceptionable. I esteem him highly, as one of my best friends.
                                    An aspiring young man, especially if he intends engaging in politicks, must make friends of all,
                                    especially of those whose friendship might benefit or whose
                                    enmity might injure him. This shall be my policy
                                        through life.
                                     I shall treat all (with
                                    obvious exceptions) in a friendly manner, and endeavor to gain
                                    the esteem and friendship of all with who I may come in
                                contact.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        August 3rd.
                        We have in the Philomathean Society, several members of very
                                    respectable talents. The principal of whom are Armstrong from 
                                        Hamilton
                                     County 
                                        Ohio
                                    [,] Davis, from 
                                        Lexington
                                        Ky
                                     and 
                                        Henderson
                                     from 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . I have no intimate friend among all my fellow
                                    members, and were it not for my eternal hatred for the Athenian
                                    Society, I would not continue my connexion with them.
                        I esteem Armstrong highly, but my acquaintance with his is short.
                                    I shall cultivate his friendship, as well as that of Davis and
                                    Henderson's for the reasons given in my last entry, in
                                    this erudite journal, which is to enlighten posterity.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        5th.
                        "A man may smile, and smile, and be a villian."
                                    Shakespeare. The celebrated dramatist was undoubtedly correct
                                    when he composed the sentence which heads my "diary" for this day. I do not by
                                    any means wish to call the Junior of Indiana
                                        College, the delineation of whose character a page will
                                    be devoted, a villian, but he approximates to one, and very closely too. Dr. Welton
                                    M Modesitt is a classmate of mine and a zealous and efficient
                                        Athenian. He is the main hand at
                                    electioneering. He possesses some
                                    talents—and is a fine declaimer. Is remarkable
                                    affable and friendly with everyone, (i.e. all with whom he
                                    associates) and with none more so than with those, who he wishes
                                    to injure, or has injured. He pretends to be a
                                    mans friend, whilst he is actually injuring, or planning his
                                    injury. Thus has he served me. I have received an injury from
                                    him, which shall be remembered, and be
                                    unforgiven, untill ample atonement be made. He is unaware of my
                                    knowing the feelings which he has for me. But he is mistaken,
                                    and shall one day, if we both continue to
                                    reside in Indiana, know it. He in conjunction
                                    with some others, (their names shall be enrolled in this work)
                                    injured me deeply, when I was not present to defend myself. He shall have reason to repent it. Untill,
                                    however, he affords me an opportunity to retaliate, he shall
                                    remain ignorant of my feelings towards him. I shall continue to
                                    treat him in a friendly manner. It is a long time since I have
                                    heard from home. Mother, I believe is at Fort Wayne. I received
                                    the news, a short time since of the death of Allen 
                                        Hamilton
                                    's29
                                    
                              
                                 29 Allen 
                                                Hamilton
                                             of Fort Wayne was the husband of Emerine
                                            Jane Holman, Richard Holman's sister.
                           
                                     daughter Eliza, an
                                    interesting girl of about 7 years old. Death is the common lot
                                    of mortals. It is Friday and as assistant critic of the
                                    Philomatheon Society, I have two erudite compositions, belonging
                                    to Jno. Clark and Seth M. Leavenworth, to criticise, before
                                    evening. Seth is a fine fellow a member of the Freshman class
                                    and will some day be distinguished.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        August 7th. Sunday.
                        I yesterday called upon several of the young ladies of this
                                    stirring place and among others upon Misses Tupman and Louisa
                                    Howe. I prefer the former. I love the former. There is something irresistably
                                    attracting in her. She is young—remarkably young to
                                    be entitled to a seat among the ladies—not yet fourteen. She does not I believe
                                    return my deep feeling of love for her. Well, thus let it be.
                                    I'll hang myself for no girl. No young lady shall take
                                    such a hold of my affections, that, their being un-returned, my
                                    after years will, from that cause, be unhappy and miserable.
                                    Neither will I ever take the "lovers leap".
                                    There are more pretty and interesting girls in the world,
                                    "which is all before me" than the one who has
                                    for the last month or two held my affections
                        The present Junior class of Indiana College is composed of the
                                    following members. G.S. Sheets, W.M. Modisett. E.D.C. &
                                    T.J. McElrath. Wm. Willis. Geo. McAfee, Jos Nichols. J W H.
                                    Parker and myself. They are all Athenians but Willis and myself
                                    [,I Philomatheons[,] and the two McElraths, who do not belong to
                                    either society. I devoted to Modesitt a page or two, and now my
                                    friend Sheets shall receive the like compliment, differing
                                    however, in the character I shall give him. He is a young man of
                                    respectable talent. Unlike Modesitt, when he is an enemy to any
                                    one, he knows it. He does not pretend to
                                    conceal his enmity. He is independant. He is my friend,
                                    altho’ an Athenian, and altho’ we have on
                                    more than one occasion, passed unfriendly words. But the effect
                                    produced by them soon passed away.
                        When Modesitt in conjunction with his colleagues so deeply
                                    injured me Sheets took a stand in favor of his friend, and
                                    performed for me a service which will require many and strong
                                    injuries to cause to be forgotten, by the author of this
                                    Journal.
                        In looking over this "entré", I
                                    perceive several sentences which are not correctly constructed.
                                    I hope the individual, whoever he may be, who reads this Diary,
                                    will pardon them, when he hears that this is the first copy. I
                                    think I shall not  go to
                                    church to day. It's raining. Daily is absent, and I do
                                    not wish to hear Holley preach or Old Andy,
                                        lecture.
                        
                        I am waiting for my dinner, and although I am not in a very good
                                    humor (for I am hungry, and a hungry man is seldom in a pleasant
                                    humor) yet I will try and describe my friends Parker and Willis.
                                    The former is a tolerable smart fellow and an Athenian. The
                                    latter not very talented, but a Philomathean which makes up in a great degree for
                                    that defect. They are both well off, and will probably never
                                    study professions. Parker is from Allomoc Co. 
                                        Virginia
                                     Willis from 
                                        Boone
                                     Co. 
                                        Kentucky
                                    . They are both my friends—not however,
                                        intimate friends, for of them I have few,
                                    but every day, passing, friends. I never
                                    expect to come in contact with them in after life. E.D.C.
                                    McElrath is undiscerving a notice in this journal. Of his
                                    brother Thomas I only say he is a clever
                                    fellow, but was never considered sufficiently smart to gain admission into either of the societies.
                                    He and his brother are residents of 
                                        Arkansas
                                    . I have but two more of my classmates to
                                    dissect—McAfee of 
                                        Kentucky
                                     and his cousin Nichols of this place. They are
                                    Athenians— and also, a rare
                                    circumstance, fine fellows. McAfee has a high opinion of
                                    his own powers and abilities. Nichols no confidence in himself.
                                    Neither of them possess talents. Nichols is much the best
                                    scholar. I do not think either of them will ever make much noise
                                    in the world, or that I shall ever come in contact with them. We
                                    are friendly—not intimate— I have written
                                    enoef for today, and unless some remarkable accident hap pens
                                    before night I shall add no more.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        August 9th.
                        The Junior class of Indiana College are frequently gratified by
                                    an exhibition of Prof. Elliott's wit. He sometimes
                                    quotes poetry and pronounces it with cadence and emphasis. The
                                    class always laughs at him, seldom at his wit, as he supposes.
                                    Today in the recitation room he was speaking of the relative
                                    strength of the horse and man. He said one horse was equal to
                                    seven men, and that one ass was equal to two men. "But,
                                    said he with a smile of self approbation at his witticism
                                    "I have seen men who were equal to as many
                                    asses." The whole class laughed heartily, some at the
                                        wit and the rest at the perpetrator of it.
                                    I think this is worthy of being recorded, and that it entitles
                                    the name of Proffessor Elliott to a place in the heart of his
                                    countrymen, and a nitche in the "Temple of
                                    Fame". I ought to have written a preface to this work.
                                    Books nowadays are nothing without one, whatever may be their
                                    intrinsic exelence. But  it
                                    is now too late. A preface never looks well in
                                    the middle of a book.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        August 11th.
                        We have just finished the new Philomathean Hall, and will hold
                                    our next meeting in it, tomorrow evening. I intend devoting a
                                    few pages to the members’ benefit. A list of members
                                    may be found on page 22 of this work. On page 50 I made some
                                    remarks with regard to Armstrong, Davis and Henderson, and on
                                    the 55th page30 some with regard to Willis.
                                    I shall, consequently exclude them, from the remarks which
                                    follow. Ballard is a Phisician of this place, and is the only
                                    married man we have in society. He is a fine fellow, and takes a
                                    warm interest in the success of [the] society. I esteem him
                                    highly. Barwick, Joshua of 
                                        Brookville
                                    . Oh for the spirit of poetry that I might do
                                    justice to the merits of this eminent member. He is a
                                    preparatory devil, but writes true poetry. Armstrong the Critic
                                    throws a damper over his genius with his severe criticisms on
                                    his compositions. I do not know whether he will ever make anything. Jno. M. Clark of Vincenes is a young
                                    lad of very considerable talent. He is yet however very young;
                                    and wild, and what is worse still is a member of the preparatory
                                    department. Is fond of the girls—of Miss Mann (who
                                    shall hereafter be described) in particular. He subscribed
                                    $10.00 for furnishing the Society's Hall,
                                    but has not yet paid it. Dr. Jas. F. Dodds, A. B. Graduate of
                                    Indiana College comes next. His character, or rather the
                                    delineation of it, should be drawn by an abler hand. He is a
                                    Presbyterian. Was once I believe a licensed preacher of that
                                    denomination. He has been connected with the society since its
                                    organization. Is as stingy as the Old Nick. Is remarkably fond
                                    of female society. Unfortunately, however, the females are not fond of his. He has been trying to get
                                    a—wife!! for a space of several years, but has not
                                    succeded. He courted Miss Elizabeth Howe,31
                                    but was dislocated. He is about 26 years old and is studying
                                    Medicine with Dr. Ballard.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        August 12th. 
                        "That love is most to be valued, which cannot be easily won." Miss Sarah A.
                                    Tup—[Here part of the page 
                              
                                 30 The references are to pp. 22,
                                            50 and 55 of Holman's manuscript diary.
                              
                                 31 A note on an otherwise blank
                                            page of the diary says that "John S. Watts
                                            Esqr. and Miss E.A. Howe [were] married June
                                            1837." According to Wylie, Indiana
                                                University, 174-175, the wedding was in May.
                                            The bridegroom became a prominent Indiana lawyer, as
                                            well as Chief Justice of New 
                                                Mexico
                                             Territory. The bride was Miss Louisa
                                            Howe's elder sister.
                           
                                     is cut.] She is not
                                    fourteen and is remarkably wild. Her particular female friend is
                                    Miss Gorman
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        13th. 
                        I proceed to sketch the characters of the members of the
                                    Philomathean Society. Duncan from 
                                        Kentucky
                                     is an aspiring member of the preparatory department
                                    Is remarkably fond of reciting poetry, and make himself
                                    ridiculous by the manner in which he does it Of Dunbar of
                                    Missippi I will make no remark. He is beneath my notice. Samuel
                                    L. Geiger of Louisville Kentucky comes next on the carpet. He
                                    was once my room mate. He has been a member of the Society for a
                                    long time and by flattering the vanity of the [Here part of the
                                    page is cut.] of the society, and wishes to follow the old
                                    beaten track, which others have pointed out.
                                        This is one of the characteristicks of an
                                        inferior genius. He possesses no talents
                                    but a considerable degree of common sence. He is not the
                                    individual who I would select as an intimate friend. He is our
                                    present President.
                        Hillis, Wm. C. Son of David Hillis. Possesses no
                                    talent,— no common sence— Is led passively
                                    by the nose by Geiger. Has no standing among the girls, the
                                    students or his fellow members.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        August 14th—
                        To proceed with the Philomathean character. Laselle[,]
                                    Jan[m?]es M. of 
                                        Logansport
                                    , an irregular member of the Junior class is a young
                                    man of fine moral character and feelings, and I believe of some
                                    talent. He is a Catholic in principle. Is my friend. Will
                                    probably graduate. Robert Mayes of 
                                        Lexington
                                     will some day be a distinguished man if he lives.
                                    He is very young and is in the preparatory department, but he
                                    possesses application and some talent. Presler, Joshua from one
                                    of the Southern states is a singular genius. He is a sophomore
                                    and is late from Miami University— He visited this
                                    institution last winter, and brought a letter of introduction
                                    from Harris to me. He had not then finally determined to leave
                                    M.U. but though [t] it highly probable that he would. I
                                    predjudiced him in favor of the Society, for I was pretty
                                    certain that he would join this Institution (the College) My
                                    dear Friend Jesse Lowe made a great effort to secure him to the
                                    Athenian Society, but we were enabled to succed in getting him
                                    into ours. His constitution is much injured from hard study He
                                    visits the South, next vacation, and will probably not return
                                    here. I do not think he is satisfied with the Institution.
                        Howard Stapp, a sophomore from 
                                        Madison
                                    , will make a fine orator, but I am afraid he will
                                    never compose well.  He is
                                    no shalar. He is a fine fellow and a friend of mine, but I am
                                    afraid does not possess much talent. Charles Thomas of 
                                        Lexington
                                     is the youngest member in Society. I forbear to
                                    make any remarks at this time, as his extreme youth forbids it.
                                    George West of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , will never make any thing more than a respectable
                                    scholar.
                        George Wright of this place read a stolen composition in
                                    society—which does not speak much to his praise. I
                                    believe however he possesses some talent. We are nothing more
                                    than simply acquainted with each other. Thus have my fellow
                                    members successively been described. They are a pretty set. Some
                                    clever talented fellows among them, but some directly the
                                    contrary. But such we will find it to be in almost every company
                                    we examine. The good and bad are strongly mixed— But
                                    I am in no mood for philosophising to day, so will conclude my
                                    remarks at another time. Heard the Rev. W.M. Daily preach. He is
                                    a clever fellow, and one of the best Methodist preachers I ever
                                    heared.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        August 15.
                        (Pleggid bad pen) I have just finished for the second time James
                                    best production Darnley. I am much pleased with it, especially
                                    with the account of the interview between the monarchs Henry 8th
                                    of 
                                        England
                                     and Francis 1st of 
                                        France
                                    . I am a warm admirer of the character of Francis.
                                    It was so frank SQ unsuspicious (when the character of the
                                    people was so entirely different) that it should command
                                    universal admiration. Henry's character very much
                                    altered during the period which he governed 
                                        England
                                    . During the first 10 or 12 years of his reign
                                    before discease and pain had enfebled his constitution, and
                                    rendered him peevish and fretful, he was a splendid monarch, and
                                    one that had the best interests of his subjects at heart. How
                                    different was it afterwards. Wolsey, the Cardinal always
                                    exercised an undue influence over him.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        August 17.
                        With what eagerness posterity will read this work! With what
                                    rapture will they hang over its pages! What delight will be
                                    pictured on their countenances when they read the elegant
                                    precepts, laid down for their edification, and what a high and
                                    exalted place will the worthy and erudite author hold in their
                                    affections! His name will be immortal. His work will ever stand
                                    as a text book, for the inexperienced youth, who must guide his
                                    own footsteps. These are the reflections which cheer me, in my
                                    laborious occupation of writing for posterity for the good of
                                    those who are  to come after
                                    me (especially my oldest son) I lay down precepts, which they
                                    are to treasure up. I place before them characters which they
                                    are to imitate (Sheets and a few others) and
                                    these Dr. Modsitt &c whose principles they are to hold
                                    in abhorrence. I have no doubt but that posterity will consider
                                    me as a public benefacter, and will erect a monument to
                                    perpetuate my memory. We authors have a hard
                                    time, but our reward is immortality
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        August 18. 
                        The Senior class of Indiana College is composed of Wm. M. Daily,
                                    Jesse W. Lowe, Lloyd T. Posey, A. Locke Roach, A.J. Thexton,
                                    J.J. McClurkin, M.M. 
                                        Campbell
                                    , and Wm. Harrison Jones.
                        Daily is a young Methodist preacher of considerable immagination
                                    and some native talent, of which he is well aware. He is a great
                                    enthusiast, and does his best to bring sinners into the fold of
                                    Christ, i.e. The Methodist church. I go and hear him preach once
                                    every Sunday, when it does not rain. He is an Athenian, and here
                                    I may as well remark that the whole class belong to that
                                    society.
                        
                           Jesse Lowe. Against this individual I have
                                    sworn eternal vengeance.32 He leagued with
                                    Dr. Modesitt to injure me, and suceeded. He shall be repaid. I
                                    will be revenged.
                        For Lloyd T. Posey, I have the most unbounded
                                    esteem and regard. He is considered the most talented student at
                                    this institution, and is undoubtedly the best Orator. He is a
                                    noble, generous, manly fellow. He is
                                        Lowe's enemy, and when Lowe, Modesitt
                                    &c attempted and suceeded in injuring me deeply, he
                                    defended me, as far as was within his power. If Posey lives, and
                                    is not unfortunate, he will one day be eminent.
                        A.L. Roach also befriended me, and 
                                        Campbell
                                     done me the same favor. They shall also be
                                    remembered. I never will forget their kindness. I will always
                                    remember them with affection and it will require many injuries
                                    to be committed by them, before their favors will be cancelled.
                                    They are both of very respectable talents. 
                                        Campbell
                                     is an old student as well as an old man. He is
                                    familiarly called "Old Daddy 
                                        Campbell
                                    " by all his acquaintance. He does not like
                                    the name, and nothing is more apt to enlist his ill will, than
                                    calling him by it. He is a Presbyterian. I understand that he
                                    has 
                              
                                 32 It is revealing to compare
                                            Holman's often caustic criticism of 
                                                Bloomington
                                             girls and Indiana College youths with the
                                            more moderate remarks of John Henry Louden. Lawrence
                                            Wheeler, "A College Freshman in 1868,"
                                                Indiana Magazine of History, XLVII
                                            (1951), 267-298.
                           
                                     accepted the appointment of
                                    book pedlar with a salary of $700.00 per annum. This
                                    is I expect the heighth of his ambition, and he will probably
                                    never rise higher.
                        Eodem die. I believe I will despatch the Senior class. None are
                                    left but McClurkin Thixton and Jones. The two latter are of
                                    congenial dispositions and are intimate, very
                                    intimate friends. Jones will probably (altho he does not now
                                    profess religion) come out a Methodist preacher. Thixton intends
                                    studdying Law, but I do not believe he will ever succed at the
                                    practice. His talents and acquirements are respectable, but not
                                    of such a nature as to insure his success at the Bar. I believe
                                    he will make a good judge of Law, but never a succesful
                                    practicioner. McClurkin is a Covenanter—a real
                                    bigotted covenanter and bitter enemy to the Catholic faith. He
                                    and myself had a very interesting and eddyfiing contest in the Hall, last session,
                                    concerning the treatment the Catholicks should receive from the
                                    denominations. The limits of this work will not permit me to
                                    give even an outline of the course we took in the debates on
                                    this all important subject. As I am well aware that the public
                                    will some day be anxious to read an account of it, I have
                                    preserved (and this shall accompany this work) all of the essays
                                    I read on the occasion, and a copy of the most important one of
                                    Mr. McClurkin's.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        August 19th—
                        "What a piece of work is man" sais Shakspeare
                                    Hamlet—"What a piece of work is
                                    woman!!!" exclaims the worthy Author of this Journal.
                                    Oh! for the inspiration of a Scott, the immagination of a
                                    Cooper— or the pen of a Bulver, to describe what can
                                    rightly be described only by a man who is capable of describing
                                    the fairest and best of nature's works—Shall
                                    I attempt a description of a creature—worthy of being
                                    the Heroine of one of the inimitable productions of the Author
                                    of Waverley—I must. My duty calls upon me: Posterity
                                    requires it of me. Their hopes and expectations shall not be
                                    blasted. "Some angel guide my pencil, while I draw the
                                    picture of" Miss Catharine Gorman.33 Oh for the spirit of poesy that I might paint in
                                    characters of fire, the beauties of the fairest of
                                    Creation's works.
                        Miss G. is from 
                                        Kentucky
                                    , and is now residing with her Brother W.A.
                                        Gorman,34 Esq Att and Con at Law, a very
                                        
                              
                                 33 Daughter of David L. and
                                            Elizabeth Gorman of 
                                                Kentucky
                                            .
                              
                                 34 A native of 
                                                Kentucky
                                            , and a Hoosier lawyer, Willis A. Gorman was
                                            appointed Governor of 
                                                Minnesota
                                             Territory by President 
                                                Franklin
                                             Pierce. "Seriously
                                            injured" at 
                                                Buena Vista
                                             in the Mexican War he won promotion to a
                                            Union generalship for gallantry at Bull Run in the Civil
                                            War. In January, 1836, Gorman married Martha Stone of 
                                                Bloomington
                                            , his first wife. Lester B. Shippee,
                                            "Willis Arnold Gorman," Dictionary of American Biography, VII,
                                            435-436.
                           
                                     distinguished citizen of
                                    this state. She is now about 21 years of age. A very romantic
                                    age As to the balance that ought to be said of her, I find
                                    myself inadequate to do it justice. "It can be better
                                    imagined than described." And I leave the reader to immagine all about her which I have not said. "Alas poor
                                Kate"
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        19. 
                        I find that I have been incorrect in dating the entries made for the last few days. They should all
                                    have been dated one day earlier. I visited Miss S.A. Tupman last
                                    evening, and promised to attend her to an astrononical lecture
                                    this evening.
                        Jno. W.H. Parker of the Old Dominion is an odd compound of odd
                                    materials. His countenance is indicative of a man of genius, (By
                                    the Bye, the countenance is not always a true index to the
                                    possessors character) and his whole bearing and deportment is
                                    that of one of talent. The limits of this journal forbid my
                                    entering into particulars, or I could en-numerate many
                                    conclusive proofs of his extraordinary powers and abilities. At
                                    the Exhibition of the Junior class, at the closer of last
                                    session, he made a spheech on the difficult subject of
                                    "The present condition of our country." His
                                    reasoning was so close, his argumentative powers so
                                    overpowering---his logic so good, and the whole supported by a
                                    continued burst of eloquence, convinced the whole assembly,
                                    (many of whom came there doubting) that the present condition of
                                    our country actually was. He is a great wit. Many of the
                                    students and young ladies consider him nearly as perfect as even
                                    the Author of this journal. He has had the honor of being twice
                                    introduced to His exelency N. Noble, Governor of 
                                        India
                                    ---35 The Governor, as well as
                                    my friend is an "old Virginian" and actually
                                    puffed up Parker with the belief that if he would visit him he
                                    would treat him with Old 
                                        Virginia
                                     hospitality. Parker intends calling.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        August 21; Sunday.
                        No meeting in town except Covenanter and the Rev. Mr. Jones,
                                    neither of which I feel disposed to honor with my presence. and
                                    must consequently stay at 
                              
                                 35 Noah Noble, Whig Governor of
                                            Indiana from 1831 to 1837, was born in Clark County,
                                            Virginia. He was succeeded by David Wallace, father of
                                            the author of Ben Hur, General Lew
                                            Wallace.
                           
                                     home "sweet
                                    home." In the Sophomore class I have one or two
                                    friends, Joseph Barwick, a Methodist licensed preacher, an
                                    Athenian and a poet. He possesses considerable talent. Writes
                                    very well, and sometimes very passable poetry. Is a particular
                                    friend of mine, and is dissatisfied with the Athenian Society.
                                    He only remains in it, because he is so remarkably bashful and
                                    afraid of hurting the feelings of some friends he has there,
                                    that her fears to ask an honorable dismissal. Were he out of it,
                                    he would connect himself with the Philomathean Society. He is a
                                    disagreeable speaker. This arises in a considerable degree from
                                    his uncommon bashfulness. He can scarcely look an audience in
                                    the face and even in common conversation, his eyes seldom meet
                                    those of the person with whom he is conversing. He
                                        is my friend, and a most estimable young man.
                        The Misses Howe (Elizabeth and Louisa) have for a long period
                                    stood at the head of the Belles of this village. E. is getting
                                    old, and unless Watts soon marries her (which I think is not
                                        unlikely)36 she will pass the
                                    Rubicon---she will be, awful fact!!! an old maid. She is a piece
                                    of affectation and nonsense---plays delightfully on the piano, and sings most melodiously.
                        Louisa, thank God, is made up of different materials. She is
                                    considerable younger than her sister, and has a hundred per cent
                                    more sence, good breading, humor and all of the qualities which
                                    render young women "so delightful." She was
                                    engaged (I believe) to George Cobb, a Senior of Ia. Col. who
                                    died last winter in Greensburgh. I have frequently been in love
                                    with her myself, and my friend Sheets is somewhat captivated at
                                    the present time. If I were going to marry, and Cousin Sarah was out of the way, I believe I would as
                                    soon have her as any young lady I ever met with. However as it
                                    is impossible for me to make her happy, I can only wish that she
                                    may get some equally clever fellow.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        22nd;
                        "Young Gentlemen" exclaimed Proffessor Elliott,
                                    this morning, directly after the Junior class had finished
                                    recitation "how many of you, do you think, had your
                                    lessons this morning?" The Junior class paid
                                    no attention to this insinuation. Prof. Elliott continued
                                    "Not one of you have your lesson as you should. Some of
                                    you know something about it, but there are others, who before
                                    you came into the room, knew not one thing
                                    about it." The Prof. was not far from 
                              
                                 36 See Note 31.
                           
                                     being correct. It is seldom
                                    that any class in college, are able to recite with credit a
                                    lesson on Monday morning. This is owing to various causes:
                                    principally to their having so much time to get it in. On Friday
                                    too, after the recitation, the members of the societies, are
                                    employed a considerable length of time in preparing for the
                                    exercises of the societies. On Saturday, they black their boots,
                                    visit the girls, and perform various other duties incumbent upon them. On Sunday, the Faculty
                                    recomend them to go to church, so that generally Monday rolls
                                    around without any preparation for the recitation room.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        23rd.
                        My friend Parker has just read, "his memoirs"
                                    on pages 79 and 80, and is not altogether satisfied with some of
                                    the historical facts therein related. He wishes to write a
                                    defence, and that it may descend to posterity, hand in hand with
                                    the "charges." I have
                                    offered him the next four pages of this work. Which he will fill
                                    with good sence. I bespeak from posterity, especially from my
                                    eldest son, a careful perusal of it---Parker altho’
                                    he has some faults is worthy of immortality.
                        For continuation of my own journal, see page 91, where the same
                                    plan will still be kept in view, and the main object--- the good
                                    of posterity--- not lost sight of.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        August 24;
                        The class was to have commenced opticks today but Prof. Elliott
                                    was not at the recitation mom. This learned Professor,
                                    yesterday, gave us a very learned and
                                    interesting lecture on the "Steam engine" in
                                    Sleepers shop where one was "being
                                    constructed." He explained the principles very clearly.
                                    Is a good lecturer, and undoubtedly a man of considerable
                                    scientific acquirements and talents. "Farther this
                                    deponent saith not" Met "cousin
                                    Sarah" A. Tupman, as I went to College this morning.
                                    "Beautiful as ever."
                                    "Charming" and conscious of her
                                    charms—
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        29th.
                        I have been sadly negligent of the interests of posterity for the
                                    last week. I must now, "as far as in me lies"
                                    retrieve my error. David S. Beaty is a member of the Freshman
                                    class---of the Athenian Society. And he is my room mate.37 He has a high opinion of his own powers.
                                    Indeed he is a young man of very considerable abilities, but is
                                    scarcely so talented as he supposes himself to be. He will 
                              
                                 31 A harrowing tale, involving
                                            Beaty and the Asiatic cholera in 1833, is attributed to
                                            A.L. Roache and set forth in Woodburn, History of Indiana University, 105.
                           
                                     some day become
                                    distinguished. He has some very aristocratic opinions. Sais he
                                    will never be a candidate for a seat in the lower House of the
                                    State Legislature. That in his path to the Temple of Fame, he
                                    will pass over that stepp. He proffesses to be very politically honest. Sais he always will be. We will
                                    see in a few years, if he lives up to his principles. He is a 
                                        Van
                                     Buren man—formerly a 
                                        Clay
                                     man.38
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        30th.
                        The habit or dissipation, mentioned in the Journal of July 9th,
                                    this evening again was yielded to. "Old
                                    habits" require the strongest resolutions to overcome
                                    them. Gradually, however, I hope to recover from this obnoxious
                                    habit entirel—
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        September 2nd. 
                        Spent an evening delightfully in the company of Miss Sarah A.
                                    Tupman. She at my request permitted me to copy the following
                                    acrostic on her name, the production of Parker and Jno. S.
                                    Geiger.—
                        
                                    Sweet maid! You now but little dream
                                    A Poets song you are the theme
                                    Rich dreams in all their luster bright
                                    Around thee flitter through the night---
                                    Heavenly peace thy couch attend
                                    An angels hand thy life defend---
                                    Time swift with his unwearied wing
                                    Unto thy life new pleasures bring.
                                    Power to charm and grace to please
                                    Make thy life a path of ease
                                    A sad farewell we poets weep
                                    Nor will profane thy tranquil sleep.
                                
                        Verily most Exelent!! Well done "Parker &
                                    Co" "We poets"!!!
                                    Poets indeed, if the silly effusions of love! sick boys may be
                                    called poetry. The object should have inspired
                                    more poetical feelings than are breathed in the above verces.
                                    Poetry, ay Poetry indeed, and posterity shall acknowledge it,
                                    and half admire the poets!!!! Promised Miss T. that Miss L.J.
                                    Howe and myself would call on her tomorow
                                    three O'clock P.M.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        3rd)
                        I fulfilled my promise, and spent a remarkably pleasant evening
                                    with Misses Howe and Tupman, not as pleasant however as it would
                                    have been had one of them been in the
                                    vacative. Gave Mrs. Elliott a fine watermellon which 
                              
                                 38 Martin Van Buren was elected
                                            President of the 
                                                United States
                                             in 1836.
                           
                                     cost me 50 cents. (Eodem
                                    die) Just had a conversation with George S. Sheets in relation
                                    to various matters We discussed them freely. George pretty much
                                    agrees with me in my opinions of Dr. Modisitt. I believe Sheets
                                    has many, very many honorable principles, deeply fixed in his
                                    noble heart--- My wish is that success in life may be
                                    commensurate with his merits---
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        6th September)
                        Some one has remarked that you might as well attempt to find your
                                    way in the Ocean without chart or compass, as to fathom the
                                    numerous windings of a womans heart. Verily it is true. [Here
                                    part of the page is cut.]
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        12th.
                        I have been reading Byron's Childe Harold. It is fine.
                                    Among many other exquisite, and I presume true thoughts I find
                                    the following:---
                        
                                    Not much, he kens, I ween, of womans breast,
                                    Who thinks that wanton thing is won by sighs;
                                    What careth she for hearts when once possessed?
                                    Do proper homage to thine idol's eye;
                                    But not too humbly, or she will despise
                                    Thee and thy suit, though told in moving tropes:
                                    Disguise ev'n tenderness, if thou art wise;
                                    Brisk confidence still best with woman copes;
                                    Pique her and soothe in turn, soon
                                    passion crowns thy hopes.
                                    [Here part of the page is cut.]
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        17th)
                        I am almost tempted to forsake the girls and cry with Tom
                                    Moore:---
                        
                                    "Away, Away, you're all the same
                                    A smiling, jilting, fluttering throng.
                                    Now by my soul I burn with shame
                                    To think I've been your slave so long"
                                
                        I'll wait awhile however. Have come to the determination
                                    to visit Duck Howe this afternoon---
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        21.
                        I have to day visited Miss Lydia Ann Grant, a niece of Mrs.
                                    Elliotts. She is a lovely, interesting girl, and one with whom
                                    it would not be difficult for me to fall in love--- She lacks,
                                    however the shiners, and is connected with a family destitute of
                                    the influence, which my wifes family must
                                    possess---
                        Onson Barber, an irregular member of the Sophomore class is a
                                    young gentleman, whom I do not wish to forget
                                         shortly. He connected
                                    himself with Dr. Modisett & co, in their attempts
                                    (succesful) to injure me. And he shall share their fate, or it
                                    will be because I am unable so to have it---
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        23.
                        The Junior class finished their course of studies to day as Juniors, and recited their last lesson to
                                    Prof. Elliott. Farewell, good old cock!!!! We have had many a
                                    squabble during the 18 months, in which I have been in your
                                    department. But they are all forgotten, or remembered only to be
                                    forgiven---
                        George S. Sheets decidedly the most talented member of the class,
                                    and also the finest, & & But
                                    it [is] needless here to recapitulate his many "good
                                    things"
                     
                  
               
                
            ******
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Wednesday August 9th 1837---
                        1 am now nearly through my college course. But six weeks more I
                                    bid farewell to Indiana College where for nearly five years I
                                    have held converse with Egeria and dallied with the Muses. It is
                                    nearly a year since I made the preceding entries! How soon do we
                                    change!! In but one short year, I find by refering to my diary,
                                    that an almost total change has come over me. My sentiments are
                                    very often changed---my opinions on many matters differed from
                                    what they then were. I have acquired new friends, and discovered
                                    that with many whom I was often friendly are unworthy of the
                                    name---Friendship is but a name--- a delusive sound, a charm to
                                    lull the unsuspecting to rest or to lure men to destruction.
                                    Davis and Armstrong, for the first of whom I have sacrificed
                                    much, are to me now, as is the great herd of mankind. I remember
                                    their friendship as a thing that was---
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Hugh T. Reid[.] There are some of my fellow students, ---the
                                    strength of whose affection I have experienced, and whose
                                    correct conduct I have witnessed---who I can never forget. The
                                    recolection of their friendship shall be as sunny spots on the
                                    cheerless waste of time. My hea[r]t will forever cherish it, and
                                    it and life must be extinguished together [.] Hugh T. Reid is a
                                    friend---not one who impelled by motives of interest has sought
                                    and obtained my friendship, but from the purest, holiest
                                    motives. Oh it is sweet, to turn from the cold and lifeless
                                    formalities of the world, or from the bitter and blasting
                                    feelings of enemies, and bask in the sunshine of the friendship
                                    of such a man as Reid. It is aa water to the thirsty panting
                                    soul---August 11th 1837
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                     Newspaper Accounts of Ralph Waldo Emerson
            Frederick E. Schortemeier*
            
            Ralph Waldo Emerson delivered at least two lectures in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana, during the course of his extensive western lecture tours.
                    The files of 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers establish that he spoke in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on Tuesday, January 27, 1863, and Tuesday, February 13, 1866. Both
                    lectures were in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Masonic Hall, then the town's most prominent and largest
                    assembly room, located at the southeast corner of West 
                        Washington
                     Street and Capitol (then 
                        Tennessee
                    ) Avenue. The building has since been razed. General admission to
                    the lecture was fifty cents; a reserved seat cost seventy-five cents.
            Emerson apparently was in 
                        Indianapolis
                     for six days in January, 1863, staying at the Bates House, now, the
                    Claypool Hotel, from Friday, January 23, to Wednesday, January 28. His extended
                    visit seems to have resulted from the accidental occupancy of Masonic Hall
                    during that time. Patriotic meetings devoted to some phase of the Civil War were
                    held in the building almost every evening of the period.
            Saturday morning, January 24, 1863, Emerson visited the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Blind School, then located on North 
                        Meridian
                     Street, on the site of the present esplanade of the American Legion
                    Headquarters. The following report of this visit is found in the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Journal, Monday, January 26, 1863: "Ralph Waldo
                    Emerson---This distinguished philosopher and author has been in our city since
                    Friday night, waiting an opportunity to deliver a lecture before the Young
                    Men's Christian Association, the first of the season in every sense.
                    The accidental occupancy of Masonic Hall every night till Tuesday night has
                    caused the delay, which we hope will not be unprofitable or unpleasant to our
                    distinguished visitor. On Saturday morning he visited the Blind Asylum, where he
                    witnessed the examination of the different classes, and expressed himself highly
                    pleased with the proficiency of the pupils and the course of instruction of the
                    Asylum. At the conclusion of his visit the pupils were all summoned to the 
                  
                     * Frederick E. Schortemeier is a
                            resident of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana
               
                     chapel, or lecture room, where they sang a
                    spirited song and Mr. Emerson addressed them for a few minutes, congratulating
                    them on the auspicious circumstances in which they were placed, and giving them
                    reasons for feeling that, notwithstanding their misfortune, they had many means
                    of happy and pleasant communication with the world. At the request of Mr.
                    Churchman, who assured him that the pupils were very fond of poetical
                    recitations, he recited a pretty little ballad of Sir Walter Scott's,
                    and thus concluded what was a very pleasant interview for all parties.
            "Mr. Emerson will lecture tomorrow night. His subject is quaintly named
                    by himself, ‘Clubs, or Conversation.’ "
            The advance notice of the lecture in the Daily State Sentinel,
                    an 
                        Indianapolis
                     paper, Tuesday morning, January 27, 1863, read: "Lecture
                    Tonight. Ralph Waldo Emerson lectures tonight at Masonic Hall. The subject is
                    ‘Clubs or Conversation.’ we do not know what that means,
                    for unlike our legislature, Mr. Emerson is not bound, as far as we know, to
                    express the subject matter in the title of his bill of fare. We are satisfied,
                    however, that the lecture will be one of interest. Mr. Emerson ranks high as a
                    writer and a lecturer, and he has the power to entertain and instruct a
                    cultivated audience. The lecture commences at 7 o'clock."
            The 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Journal, Tuesday, January 27, 1863, carried the following
                    announcement: "The Lecture. We need hardly remind our readers that
                    tonight at Masonic Hall, Ralph Waldo Emerson, one of the profoundest thinkers
                    and ablest essayists of the present age, will lecture before the Young
                    Men's Christian Association. It is not often that we get sight or
                    hearing of so truly intellectual a man, and we are confident the opportunity
                    will not be lost."
            Wednesday, January 28, 1863, the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Journal reported: "Mr. Emerson's
                    Lecture. Probably a better night might have brought out a larger crowd to hear
                    Mr. Emerson's lecture at Masonic Hall last night, before the Young
                    Men's Christian Association, but it could hardly have brought out a
                    more appreciative one. The subject was ‘Clubs, or
                    Conversation’, a title which, as the lecture progressed, was found to
                    be as expressive as before it appeared obscure. Its purpose was to show what
                    conversation is, and its value in teaching men or bringing out their characters,
                    and the importance of ‘clubs ’, or social gatherings,
                    properly applied and regulated,  to produce
                    and cultivate genuine conversation. We have not space to notice its points, but
                    we may say it was full both of sound philosophy or development of causes, and of
                    shrewd observation of facts to deduce causes from. And it overflowed with
                    anecdote and erudition. Probably no other living man could bring so completely
                    together such widely scattered elements of opinion and instruction. He had
                    anecdotes and maxims from the Greeks, legends from the Scandinavians, bon-mots
                    from the French, repartees from the English, and facts from everywhere, and all
                    worked into a solid and symmetrical fabric. His style of delivery is perfectly
                    adapted to his style of oratory. Both are unlike anybody else's, full
                    of quaint jerks and turns of thought, and as quaint halts and modulations of
                    speech, yet both strong, direct, and devoid of the slightest suggestion of a
                    desire to let either help the other by any grace of ornament or oratory. The
                    delivery simply gets out the idea, and don't try to keep it on its feet
                    afterwards, and the idea takes no pains to shape itself so as to let the
                    delivery have a graceful task of it. He has a fashion of seeming to forget the
                    last word or two, always significant, and, as in an air on a violin, the
                    keynotes, of a sentence, and stumbling upon them unexpectedly with an effort
                    that the most elaborate declamation could not produce. This is manifestly not a
                    trick of the rostrum, but the necessary halting of the speech to let the idea
                    catch up with it. An illustration may not be out of place. Speaking of the
                    bringing out of one thought by another in conversation, a corresponding or
                    related thought, as one story suggests another like it, he said:
                    ‘Thoughts always go in pairs. One fact recalls another, however
                    distant in time or different in circumstances the knowledge of it may have been
                    acquired. Related thoughts will come together. Thoughts go in pairs. And this is
                    the reason, probably, why, when a man tells a good story he
                    invariably’--- hesitating as if he had forgotten what to say---‘tells it again.’ We wish we had space
                    to notice the lecture at greater length, but we have not, and must reluctantly
                    drop the subject."
            The 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Daily Gazette, Wednesday, January 28, 1863, said, of this
                    same lecture: "The Lecture.---Mr. Emerson the 
                        Boston
                    
                    savant lectured to a good house, an intelligent, and
                    appreciative, audience last night, and, we believe, made a decided impression
                    upon the minds of his auditors of his character as an eminent literary man, his
                    peculiar style of  oratory and expression.
                    His subject, ‘Clubs, or Conversation,’ was elucidated and
                    illustrated in a striking manner, ‘turning all subjects for the time,
                    like the waters of a mill race, to bear upon the one, and keep the whole moving.
                    Anecdotes, maxims and queer illustrations, sparkled out here and there like
                    stars in a clear firmament, illuminating the discourse and rendering it more
                    interesting and entertaining. The value of clubs for the purpose of providing
                    the necessity, and developing a healthy flow of Conversation, was impressed upon
                    all, and we trust its effect will not be allowed to pass away unnoticed or
                    unimproved. We need clubs, social societies for mutual improvement---not mutual
                    admiration societies ---which would conduce to the enjoyment and enlightenment
                    of their patrons, and now we need them most.
            "If we were to make objections to Mr. Emerson's style or manner
                    of lecturing, we should say his lecture was too much like a book, his delivery
                    not bold and full enough to enable his hearers to take in every sentiment and
                    digest it before another of equal or greater importance is uttered. A reading
                    would be more satisfactory than a hearing, as one could then, at his leisure,
                    stop to dissect an idea before proceeding; he could see the
                    word or name, for instance, of a Scandinavian deity, or mundane celebrity, which
                    is not heard very often, and appreciate the application or connection. It keeps
                    one thinking rapidly, all the time, to retain all the lecturer says, or like the
                    child stringing beads, with no knot in her thread, the ideas drop off as fast as
                    they are run on. A better selection of a subject could have been made for this
                    time and latitude; one of more vital importance. But we are glad of having an
                    opportunity to see Mr. Emerson, and hear him upon any subject."
            Emerson's next address in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was delivered on Tuesday evening, February 13, 1866. His subject
                    was "Social Aims of America."
            The 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Daily Gazette, February 13, 1866, announced this lecture:
                    "The Lecture Tonight.---Masonic Hall will contain an audience to night
                    composed---be they many or few---of the intelligent and intellectual of our
                    community. It is not everybody that can appreciate Mr. Emerson---even of those
                    who are in the habit of attending popular lectures. But in a city as large as
                    this, there ought to be enough to furnish a good sized audience at least. Mr.
                    Emerson is beyond all question  the most
                    original and profound thinker in America, &s well as one of the best and
                    most interesting lecturers. Every sentence he utters is laden with thought and
                    makes the listener think also. We prefer him to any man we
                    ever heard, as a lecturer, and do hope that our citizens will turn out this
                    evening, and give him a good audience. Those who have ever heard Mr. Emerson of
                    course need no urging to do so. To those who never have heard him, we say---go
                    by all means, if you would hear the greatest lecturer and most profound man of
                    the age. Our word for it you will be pleased and rightly paid for the cost and
                    time. Subject---The Social Aims of America---this evening at Masonic
                    Hall."
            The following appeared in the 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Daily Herald, February 13, 1866:
                    "Emerson's lecture To-night.… Our citizens must not
                    forget the opportunity of hearing the lecture this evening of this distinguished
                    American poet and popular writer. He is classed as one of the most prominent
                    lecturers of the age, and to those that admire the beautiful in
                    ‘thought and the elegant in ideal, should not fail to hear his
                    choicest and richest productions of his gifted genius, styled ‘Social
                    Aims in America'."
            The 
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         Daily Gazette, Wednesday, February 14, 1866, reported:
                    "Mr. Emerson's Lecture.---The audience to hear Mr.
                    Emerson's lecture last evening was fair---the lecture barely so. We
                    were disappointed in our expectations and think the auditors generally were. Mr.
                    Emerson seemed to be ‘out of humor’ from some cause or
                    other, and we don't blame him. For a man like him to come all the way
                    from 
                        Boston
                     to lecture to an 
                        Indianapolis
                     audience on manners and good breeding, and to be furnished an old,
                    greasy kitchen table, with a candle box on top of it, for a desk is enough to
                    insult any man. We should have not blamed the lecturer if he had walked down
                    from the platform and refused to speak at all, on seeing such accommodations.
                    This is the second time that speakers have been insulted, and the city disgraced
                    in that way. Mr. Thompson, of 
                        England
                    , was compelled to use the same old table and candle box. It is a
                    positive shame and disgrace to the city, and to the proprietors of Masonic Hall,
                    and especially to the Association inviting gentlemen here to lecture to furnish
                    such accommodations in the way of a desk or pulpit! We hope never to see the
                    like again at that place, or, indeed, in the city anywhere. Can  not somebody be induced to procure a decent movable
                    desk for Masonic Hall?"
            Apparently there was no further local newspaper coverage of this lecture.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Bourbon Democracy of the Middle West, 1865-1896. By Horace
                    Samuel Merrill. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1953, pp. 300. Illustrations, bibliography,
                    and index. $4.50.)
            Here is the lively and comprehensive story of the Bourbon Democratic leaders of
                    the Middle West from 1865 to 1896, shorn of the glamour enjoyed by the Southern
                    "Redeemers" of the same period, and pictured as the paladins
                    of plutocracy, always in alliance with Eastern Bourbon Democrats and often with
                    conservative Republicans to suppress the harassed farmers and to keep the Middle
                    West in colonial subjection to the East.
            From 1865 to 1880 the story emphasizes the politics of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    , particularly 
                        Ohio
                    , and the struggle of the Bourbons to suppress Greenback sentiment
                    in the Democratic party. The villains of the piece are such hardy perennials as
                    William Allen and Allen G. Thurman. (It is too bad that more space is not
                    devoted to Indiana, for from 1874 through 1878 Greenbackers and Democrats in
                    that state were in rather close alliance and won some notable victories.)
            From 1880 to 1896 the story emphasizes the politics of 
                        Illinois
                    , 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 
                        Minnesota
                    , 
                        Iowa
                    , and 
                        Nebraska
                    , particularly that of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , where the author is most at home, and the struggle of the Bourbons
                    to suppress the anti-monopolists, the Farmers’ Alliance, the
                    Populists, and the silverites. By this time the villains are William F. Vilas,
                    J. Sterling Morton, and Melville W. Fuller, and the heroes are John P. Altgeld,
                    William J. Bryan, Ignatius Donnelly, and Horace Boies.
            One of the main themes of the book is how the Bourbon Democrats
                    "stumbled" into national power in 1884 and in 1892 on such
                    "diversionary" issues as the tariff and clean government, and
                    how they received retributive justice in 1896, when they were "damnably
                    mauled" and lost control of the Democratic party to those who
                    epitomized the "real" issues---labor and farm relief, trust
                    busting, and monetary reform.
            Who were the rank-and-file Democrats of the Middle West during this period
                    ? For the most part they were people  of Southern backgrounds tinged with varying degrees
                    of Copperheadism; non-nativists bent on retaining their language newspapers,
                    their parochial schools, and their beer; and poor farmers in the poor counties.
                    However, the author tells us all this by inference and assertion; his method is
                    that of the literary and narrative historian, not that of the quantitative
                    historian correlating, county by county, the election statistics with social and
                    economic factors. (Alas, most contemporary American historians have abandoned
                    the Frederick J. Turner methods, only to see those methods appropriated by the
                    political scientists and the sociologists and expanded by them to win new
                    scientific victories for their disciplines!)
            The period covered by this book saw the transformation of the old Middle West
                    from an agrarian to a semi-industrial society with the consequent decline of
                    agrarian radicalism in 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    , and the advance of agrarian radicalism to the newer Middle West of 
                        Minnesota
                    , 
                        Iowa
                    , and 
                        Nebraska
                    . Again, this revolutionary shift is treated largely by declaration
                    and assertion rather than by quantitative analysis of election returns and
                    social and economic statistics.
            The general impression left by the book is that of a political conflict between
                    white and black, between good and evil. The intermediate gradations, the various
                    shades of gray, so numerous in the ambiguous, inclusive, and non-ideological
                    politics of the 
                        United States
                     in all periods and in all sections, are rare in this book, but they
                    were numerous in real life. For instance, cm the vital monetary issues which
                    divided the Indiana Democracy of the 1870's, there were inflationists
                    like 
                        Franklin
                     Landers and "Blue Jeans" Williams; and there were
                    orthodox hard money men like Joseph E. McDonald, William H. English, and Michael
                    Kerr. But there were also many political leaders in intermediate positions:
                    David Turpie, rather consistently left of center; Daniel Voorhees, usually left
                    of center; Isaac P. Gray, somewhat left of center; and Thomas A. Hendricks, just
                    about at dead center. For the most part, Merrill's narrative is too
                    sketchy and too sectarian to capture the truly amorphous nature of the political
                    contest.
            It is a mistake to think that the Bourbons were without a popular following.
                    Industrial capitalism was a cause that 
                    enlisted the hopes and the imaginations of the masses, just as Jeffersonian and
                    Jacksonian agrarian democracy once did, just as Roosevelt's New Deal
                    was later to do. Henry W. Brady and James J. Hill were symbols of mass
                    aspirations just as much as were Tom Watson and William J. Bryan. It is the
                    failure to recognize this fact that gives the period from 1865 to 1896 so
                    hideous an aspect to our historians of agrarian and of socialist points of view.
            Whenever the money question was not raised, Merrill seems to think middle western
                    voter reaction was apathetic. He says that voters might have entitled the
                    election of 1876 Much Ado About Nothing. This simply is not
                    true. Partisan feeling was at fever pitch in the 1870's and
                    1880's, especially in 1876, although admittedly it is paradoxical that
                    the period in which there was the least substantive difference between the major
                    parties was the very period of American history in which party attitudes and
                    feelings approximated the ritualism and fervor of religion. It is the duty of
                    the historian---even of the economic determinist---to describe political
                    behavior as it was and not as it "ought" to have been.
            The author is not quite at home in Indiana politics. Hendricks was much more of a
                    trimmer on the money issue than Merrill makes him. Benjamin Harrison was not a
                    Senator at the time of his nomination for President in 1888. And, of course,
                    William H. English was never "governor of doubtful Indiana,"
                    in spite of the author's assertion, on page 136, that he was. Instead,
                    English was a wealthy banker and Indiana's "Great
                    Forecloser," a fact which Merrill would have exploited had he been
                    aware of it.
            The University of 
                        Florida
                    
            
            William G. Carleton
         
         
            
               James Longstreet. I. Soldier. By Donald Bridgman Sanger. II.
                        Politican, Officeholder, and Writer. By Thomas Robson Hay. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1952, pp. xi, 460. Illustrations and index.
                    $6.50.)
            One of the major Civil War controversies has centered around General James
                    Longstreet. Did he unnecessarily delay his attack on the second day at 
                        Gettysburg
                     and thus lose the battle for Lee? Since he admitted that
                    he advised another course of action it was not strange that it was charged that
                         having been overruled, he did not
                    loyally accept his superior's order and exert himself to execute it
                    promptly. It was the middle of the afternoon before he struck, and though his
                    blow had its customary fury, the Federal left successfully met the shock. It was
                    asserted by many that the attack could have been made hours earlier and before
                    Meade had strongly occupied Cemetery Ridge. The unsoundness of the accusation
                    was demonstrated by Colonel Sanger in an article, "Was Long-street a
                    Scapegoat?" that appeared in the Infantry Journal in 1936.
                    By considering the distance that Longstreet's corps had to march from
                    where it had camped on the night of July 1, the length of the column, and the
                    delay caused by one of Lee's staff officers who acted as guide, Sanger
                    showed that Longstreet could not possibly have attacked much before he did.
            Three years before the publication of the 
                        Gettysburg
                     paper, Colonel Sanger had completed a study of
                    Longstreet's military career, a work laid aside until 1939, when, at
                    the suggestion of Thomas Robson Hay, it was revived and revised. As a result,
                    one of the gaps in Civil War literature has been filled, and filled admirably.
                    But what was needed was a complete biography of Longstreet, for his post-war
                    career was also one of controversy. After Sanger's death in 1947, Hay
                    undertook the task of completing his work, and the chapters he wrote have an
                    excellence equal to those of Colonel Sanger.
            There has never been a doubt as to Longstreet's battlefield ability, and
                    Sanger says: "Without possessing the strategic brilliancy of either Lee
                    or Jackson, he was, I believe, superior to both in battle leadership and in
                    appreciation of tactical values. He knew instinctively the exact moment for the
                    counterstroke. Defensively, he was, as Grant said, Lee's best general,
                    and the crushing effect of his well-timed assaults at Second Manassas,
                    Chickamauga Creek, and the Wilderness, are eloquent testimonials of his skill on
                    the offensive. He was the best fighting general in the armies of the Confederacy
                    and the best corps commander, North or South."
            Longstreet's faults and weaknesses were revealed during the trying
                    winter of 1863-1864 that he spent in East 
                        Tennessee
                    , after his failure to take 
                        Knoxville
                     from Burnside. Sanger's analysis of that period is
                    especially good. He says: "From this excellent start at Chickamauga,
                    there was a gradual decline in Longstreet's morale until he became a
                         shambling, indecisive, and at times
                    utterly lethargic man. He was stale…. Most serious of all, Longstreet
                    for the first time lost confidence in himself."
            The deterioration was due to Longstreet's association with General
                    Braxton Bragg, in whom he had no confidence, and whom to some extent he feared.
                    Yet a good deal of the trouble, Sanger says, was of Longstreet's own
                    making, and he did not recover when Bragg was removed from command in the West
                    soon after his defeat at 
                        Chattanooga
                     in late November, 1863. While it is difficult to fit all of
                    Longstreet's acts together in a logical pattern, the months in 
                        Tennessee
                     clearly demonstrated that he was not equal to the great
                    responsibilities of an independent commander.
            Longstreet needed a leader, and he rose again to his full stature when in April,
                    1864, he returned to duty under Lee south of the Rapidan River. He fell badly
                    wounded on the second day of the Battle of the Wilderness, shortly after the
                    counterstroke by his corps had saved the day for Lee. In October he returned to
                    service and Colonel Sanger's last two chapters, "With
                    Lee's Left Wing," and "Last March," present
                    a judicious and discriminating account of the last months of the war in the East
                    and the final operation.
            Although in the matter of pages, Hay's part is only half that of Colonel
                    Sanger, his problem of sources was the greater. A quite limited number of
                    volumes of the Official Records gave most of the material for
                    Longstreet's war years, but newspapers and periodicals had to be
                    searched for that covering the period from 
                        Appomattox
                     to his death on January 2, 1904. The manuscript collections are not
                    extensive and it seems unlikely that any of consequence were missed.
            After giving his parole on April 12, 1865, Longstreet had only to ride to nearby
                    Lynchburg to join his wife. On June 1, a son, James Longstreet, Jr., was
                    born---a boy of the same name, as well as two other children, had died of
                    scarlet fever early in 1862---and near the last of the month the former soldier
                    set out southward with one of his former aides, his fifteen year old son
                    Garland, and a Negro servant, expecting to establish himself in 
                        Texas
                    . After some stops en route, the last of September found him in 
                        New Orleans
                    , and there he decided to remain, having been offered the chance to
                    go into the cotton brokerage business. In September, 1867, Longstreet disposed
                    of his brokerage interests to his  former
                    subordinate General John B. Hood and moved his family to Lynchburg.
            In the fall of 1865, while Longstreet was in 
                        Washington
                    ---where he was entertained as a person of distinction---Grant had
                    urged that he be pardoned, saying he would regard it as a "personal
                    favor." But it was a year before such action was taken and not until
                    June 24, 1868, that his political disabilities were removed, one of those
                    working in his behalf being Benjamin F. Butler. Soon after Grant's
                    inauguration as President he nominated Longstreet as surveyor of the port of 
                        New Orleans
                    . Though this led to criticism of Grant and denunciation of
                    Longstreet by former comrades, he was confirmed, 25 to 10. Says Hay,
                    "General Longstreet, now officially recognized as a Republican, at once
                    associated himself with the group of political adventurers who, for the next
                    eight years, were to make of 
                        New Orleans
                     and the state of 
                        Louisiana
                     a political cesspool, notorious in American political
                    history." The story becomes brighter when in 1877, upon the overthrow
                    of the carpetbag governments, Longstreet returned to 
                        Georgia
                    . Strictly speaking it was not his native state as he had been born
                    during a visit by his mother to her parents’ home in South Carolina,
                    but in essential ways it was his old home.
            After short service as deputy collector of internal revenue, postmaster of 
                        Gainesville
                    , 
                        Georgia
                    , and Minister to 
                        Turkey
                    , Longstreet was made 
                        United States
                     Marshal for the District of 
                        Georgia
                    . As a leader of the white wing of the Republican party he was
                    involved in factional quarrels and was a defeated candidate for both the House
                    and the Senate. Efforts to have him removed from office began almost as soon as
                    he was sworn in, and were successful in July, 1884. As regards the charges
                    against him, Hay says: "The general consensus seemed to be that most of
                    General Longstreet's trouble proceeded from too great trust in his son
                    John Garland Longstreet, who was his chief deputy and who was accused both of
                    having deceived his father about his accounts and of personal
                    misconduct."
            Rather lean years followed. Longstreet's small farm furnished him some
                    food; and there was cash from lectures and military articles. He also received
                    in due time a Federal pension as a Mexican War veteran and a 
                        Georgia
                     pension as an ex-Confederate. Even before the period of leisure had
                         come to him he had begun his defense of
                    his 
                        Gettysburg
                     actions, and shortly after his return to 
                        Georgia
                     he had published two long letters in the 
                        Philadelphia
                    
                    Times, which were widely copied. His main antagonists in the
                    controversy that arose were General Jubal A. Early and General Fitzhugh Lee.
            Perhaps the most important chapter in Hay's section of the book is that
                    entitled "The Soldier's Story." It traces with some
                    detail the evolution of Longstreet the writer, beginning with the letter he
                    wrote an uncle within a month after 
                        Gettysburg
                    , to the publication of his From Manassas to 
                            Appomattox
                        
                in 1895. All students of the Civil War know this work as
                    well as the articles Longstreet contributed to Battles and
                    Leaders, and they will be deeply indebted to Hay for his painstaking work
                    on the history of the Longstreet controversy.
            It was a lonely old man who wrote the memoirs, for his wife had died in 1889. And
                    he wrote with much difficulty because his right arm had been partially paralyzed
                    by his wound. But his few remaining years were to be more cheerful. In 1897 he
                    married Helen Dortch, then employed in the 
                        Georgia
                     state library. Some new friendships were formed and old ones
                    re-established. In the following January he was appointed 
                        United States
                     Commissioner of Railways, replacing Wade Hampton, another
                    ex-Confederate general. One of his last public appearances was at the West Point
                    centennial in June, 1902. He was eager to go to 
                        Gettysburg
                     the following September to attend the unveiling of a statue to
                    General Henry W. Slocum, who had commanded the Federal right in the great battle
                    and who sent troops to the left to repel Longstreet. But his health prevented,
                    and from then until his death a little over a year later he gradually declined.
            
               James Longstreet will impress the reader as a very able,
                    accurate, and just biography, with weighty judgments not only about the general,
                    but about those with whom he was associated and the drama in which he played an
                    important part. But it is not a work that will arouse much warm enthusiasm for
                    him. If the writers had such a feeling, they did not reveal it.
            Indiana University
            Kenneth P. Williams
         
         
         
            
               Nancy Hanks 
                            Lincoln
                        : A Frontier Portrait. By Harold E. Briggs and Ernestine B.
                    Briggs. (
                        New York
                    : Bookman Associates, 1953, pp. 135. Index. $2.60.)
            Instead of writing a biography in the usual sense, Professor and Mrs. Briggs have
                    woven the meager facts concerning the life of Nancy Hanks 
                        Lincoln
                     into an account of the background from which she came. This was
                    necessary because almost nothing is known for certain about the mother of
                    Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    . Even such matters as the date and place of her birth and the
                    identity of her father are matters of speculation. She apparently could not read
                    or write; hence her story must be reconstructed from a few references in court
                    documents, such as the record of her marriage, and from oral traditions. The
                    result, as the authors of the little book admit, contains "an element
                    of the legendary," and her story must remain "half myth, half
                    fact."
            The book is principally an impression of the three frontiers of which Nancy 
                        Lincoln
                     was a product: 
                        Virginia
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , and Indiana. There are also chapters summarizing the facts and
                    conjectures concerning her ancestry and that of the 
                        Lincoln
                     family, and a picture of Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     is drawn. In dealing with both Nancy and Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     the authors have taken great pains to show that they were products
                    of their environment and that their lives were typical of the society in which
                    they moved. Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     emerges as a respectable member of the middle class whose failures
                    were due to chronic ill luck.
            In dealing with the genealogical problems and the facts regarding Nancy and
                    Thomas 
                        Lincoln
                     the authors have gone over much the same ground as that traversed
                    by Dr. Louis Warren in his researches. They appear to have worked with the same
                    materials and to have reached the same conclusions. The best parts of the book
                    are those that deal with pioneer society. The account of the migration of the 
                        Lincoln
                     family to Indiana is well told, though it adds nothing to previous
                    factual knowledge.
            There are no footnotes and no regular bibliography. In a bibliographical note the
                    authors say they have travelled in the 
                        Lincoln
                     country and have used court records. They acknowledge the
                    usefulness of the works of Dr. Warren and the files of 
                  
                            Lincoln
                         Lore. In the preparation of the book the  authors state: "Innumerable books and
                    articles have been read; documents studied; the accuracy of statements
                    thoughtfully gauged; and it is hoped that the authors have accomplished a
                    purpose first attempted a decade ago: to present as real (and truthful) a
                    picture as possible of the mother of one of the greatest Presidents of the 
                        United States
                     of America."
            
               
                        Butler
                     University
            Emma Lou Thornbrough
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Lincoln
                         and Greeley. By Harlan Hoyt Homer. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1952, pp. ix. 432. Bibliography and index.
                    $6.00.)
            
               
                  
                            Lincoln
                         and Greeley, impressive in size and format, comprises part
                    of the present avalanche of material on the Civil War period. The writer uses a
                    simple scheme of treatment of parallel study, mostly from source materials, of
                    these two great figures of: the time. He has no theory to promote, no special
                    thesis to maintain; he merely presents the two men in relation to the
                    developments of the period of which they were a part, and occasionally offers
                    pertinent comment.
            The two characters are first introduced as "Fellow
                    Whigs"---young Whigs, disciples of 
                        Clay
                    's American system. Their first meeting, happening by
                    chance, was at the 
                        Chicago Rivers
                     and Harbors Convention and was not significant. The
                    convention's purpose could have split the Democratic Party, south and
                    west, but neither Greeley nor 
                        Lincoln
                     saw in it at this time more than good Whig politics. With this
                    first casual meeting as an introduction the writer drops back and brings the
                    political careers of the two men up to the point when the Whig Party was laid
                    away and the Republican Party took its place.
            The author, in discussing "Common Grounds," shows that 
                        Lincoln
                     and Greeley had some generalities of background in common:
                    ancestry, early environment, educational opportunity, and struggle with penury.
                    This almost takes the form of a thesis, interestingly put, and is a good review
                    of the early lives of the two men.
            A quirk of fate brought them together as congressmen in the Thirtieth Congress---
                        Lincoln
                    , a member by the regular route of political victory; Greeley, by
                    appointment  to a vacancy. 
                        Lincoln
                    's work on the expansion issue, which it was fatal to
                    attack at the time, was futile, almost entirely political. Greeley found busy
                    work to do. His exposé of mileage frauds caught 
                        Lincoln
                     as a heavy offender but no personal animus was generated.
                    Greeley's attempt to change the name of America is not overlooked in
                    this book. Neither Greeley nor 
                        Lincoln
                     was returned to Congress.
            Taking up the significant slavery issue, Horner shows that 
                        Lincoln
                     was not a sentimentalist about it, and Greeley, though using the
                    subject as a publicist, was far from being Garrisonian. 
                        Lincoln
                    's political use of the subject is clearly set out and the
                    reader realizes his astuteness in avoiding radical implication and his awareness
                    of the value of the question for political purposes.
            The book's chapter, "Fellow Republicans," shows the
                    two brought together in common endeavor, 
                        Lincoln
                     wary in every step, Greeley plunging in like the crusader he was.
                    Once committed, 
                        Lincoln
                     was still all discretion. This reviewer is a little disappointed in
                    the treatment of the period; the writer relies on James Ford Rhodes and Francis
                    Curtis for the framework and consequently does not penetrate beyond the surface
                    of events. It would be more satisfactory if the description of the Republican
                    movement itself rested on less archaic references. Wittingly or not, the author
                    brings out from sources one of 
                        Lincoln
                    's very greatest contributions to Republican emergence.
                    Greeley supported Douglas in his stand on Lecompton. 
                        Lincoln
                     stood clear of it and made a place for the Republicans to stand in 
                        Illinois
                     and ultimately in the nation.
            The nomination and election of 1860 are written of in a chapter entitled,
                    "Bigger Game." The activity of the two men is again based on
                    source material. Again the author quotes Rhodes on the election of 1860; Emerson
                    Davis Fite might have been preferable. After the election came Secession and the
                    problems it broached for the coming administration. There is no reference to
                    David Morris Potter's work in this, though the author does mention it
                    in the next chapter. He offers pertinent criticism of Greeley for not using his
                    powerful Tribune to sell 
                        Lincoln
                     to the East in this interval.
            With war a fact, Greeley became a "Forward to 
                        Richmond
                    " advocate. He was early cured of his "Let the
                    erring sisters go in peace" opinions and he came to 
                        Lincoln
                    's position  of saving
                    the Union by force. Though a little disappointed in not being included in the
                    administration, the great editor now undertook to push the conquest of the South
                    and, like some others, essayed to direct it. Like others, Greeley was brought to
                    hand and made to admit error.
            
               
                        Lincoln
                     treated emancipation as an element in the complex problems of
                    war-making, always aware of its political implications; Greeley approached it
                    with crusader zeal. This phase of their relationship reached a climax in the
                    late summer of ‘62 (the dark days) with Greeley's
                    "Prayer of Twenty Millions," which, with 
                        Lincoln
                    's epoch-making answer, are given in full in the book. In
                    September, the Emancipation Proclamation was issued and Greeley responded with
                    "God bless Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    ." The writer does not join some others in an effort to
                    establish 
                        Lincoln
                     as a sentimentalist about emancipation.
            The war rolled on, the nation became war weary, 
                        Lincoln
                     persevered in his objectives, and Greeley indulged in peace
                    overtures. 
                        Lincoln
                     allowed Greeley to try his hand in the Niagara Negotiations and
                    incidentally to make a fool of himself. Still, Horner isn't sure that
                    it was entirely political sagacity on 
                        Lincoln
                    's part and leaves open the possibility that 
                        Lincoln
                     may have entertained the idea that negotiation was possible. The
                    Jaquess Gilmore effort by-passed Greeley and involved another famous editor,
                    Henry J. Raymond. Though 
                        Lincoln
                     condoned these efforts, his position once stated rendered peace
                    negotiations impossible. The South was never conceded to be a nation.
            Politics reentered the picture before the war was done. The American people had
                    to decide whether or not they would carry the war on to the end. Greeley did not
                    join the evangels of failure who brought on the dark days of the summer of
                    ‘64, but he did do a little king-making. He believed 
                        Lincoln
                     a good man in the wrong place and went out after a successor to
                    him. In this he developed such characters as Rosecrans and Frémont.
                    The nomination of 
                        Lincoln
                    , the fall of 
                        Atlanta
                    , the split of the Democrats, made Greeley's support of 
                        Lincoln
                     inevitable.
            When peace came Greeley joined in the celebration of the great triumph. With 
                        Lincoln
                    's assassination Greeley was second to none in lamenting
                    the great good man. Greeley's reaction to 
                        Lincoln
                    's successor makes the book's epilogue.  Exceeded by none in his drift to the
                    Radicals, he could stand but one term of Grant.
            A reader familiar with the period of 
                  
                            Lincoln
                         and Greeley finds in it numerous things that are new and
                    many familiar things in a new context. This reviewer felt he had in it a
                    splendid review of the period, interestingly told, and is willing to recommend
                    it to others and to place it as a "must" in reference books
                    for student reading.
            DePauw University
            A. W. Crandall
         
         
            
               Bibliographical Studies of Seven Authors of Crawfordaville,
                        Indiana; Lew and Susan Wallace, Maurice and Will Thompson, Mary Hannah and
                        Caroline 
                            Virginia
                         Krout and Meredith Nicholson. By Dorothy Ritter Russo and
                    Thelma Lois Sullivan. 
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1952, pp. xi, 486. Illustrations and
                    index.)
            Since 1836, 
                        Crawfordsville
                     has been referred to, off and on, as "the 
                        Athens
                     of Indiana" and sometimes even as "the 
                        Athens
                     of the West." Mary Hannah Krout used the name,
                    "The Hoosier 
                        Athens
                    ," in a column she wrote for The Saturday
                        Herald of 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the 1870's. Now Mary Hannah Krout is one of seven
                    authors included in a volume of bibliographical studies that is designed to
                    perpetuate the legend. The others are: Mary Hannah Krout's sister,
                    Caroline 
                        Virginia
                     Krout, who wrote under the pseudonym of "Caroline 
                        Brown
                    "; Maurice Thompson and his brother, Will Thompson;
                    Meredith Nicholson; and Lew Wallace and his wife, Susan Arnold Elston Wallace.
            Each bibliography is prefaced by a short biography, which will identify some of
                    the authors for non-residents of Indiana, and is composed of descriptive lists
                    of first edition books, first edition ephemera, first edition contributions, and
                    first appearances in periodicals. There is a thorough index of forty pages at
                    the end providing clues even for those readers who may wish to determine such
                    matters as, for instance, the date when Mary Hannah Krout published a news item
                    in the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Inter Ocean stating that many prominent Indianans would not
                    attend the inauguration of 1889.
            Indiana University
            William E. Wilson
         
         
         
            
               John McMillan, The Apostle of Presbyterianism in the West,
                        1752-1833. By Dwight Raymond Guthrie. (
                        Pittsburgh
                    : University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 1952, pp. x, 296. Maps, illustrations, bibliography, and
                    index. $3.00.)
            A recent estimate of the number of Scotch-Irish who found their way to the New
                    World in the eighteenth century has placed the figure at 385,000. Constituting
                    the last great wave of immigration to the colonies, the Scotch-Irish were
                    compelled to push beyond the older settlements to find homes on the edge of the
                    wilderness. As Theodore Roosevelt has said, in his Winning of the
                        West, the Scotch-Irish were America's first frontiersmen. When
                    the Revolutionary War began these hardy people constituded a fringe of
                    settlement all along the frontier from 
                        New Hampshire
                     on the north to 
                        Georgia
                     on the south. They were almost one hundred per cent Presbyterian in
                    their affiliation. With their tradition of an educated ministry, both in 
                        Scotland
                     and North 
                        Ireland
                    , together with their schools, which were considered a necessity in
                    every Scotch-Irish settlement, the Presbyterian Irish constituted the advance
                    guard of Christian civilization west of the Alleghenies.
            John McMillan, the subject of this careful biographical study, was a second
                    generation Scotch-Irishman, born in 
                        Chester
                     County, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , of devout Presbyterian parents. He attended John Blair's
                    "Log College" at Fagg's Manor in his home county and
                    later received his first baccalaureate degree at the College of 
                        New Jersey
                     (
                        Princeton
                    ) where he sat at the feet of John Witherspoon, but recently come
                    from 
                        Scotland
                     to assume the presidency of the college. Later he returned to
                    Robert Smith's famous "Log College" at Pequea where
                    he spent, two additional years. Such was the preparation for the Presbyterian
                    ministry then available to young Scotch-Irishmen such as John McMillan; thus
                    there came to be an American-trained Presbyterian ministry suited to the needs
                    of an advancing American frontier. Another pattern which John McMillan typifies
                    was that of the ministers’ making preaching tours through the back
                    country previous to their settlements over congregations. In McMillan's
                    extended tours he came to know the Redstone Country---southwestern 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ---where he received a call to two congregations, Chartiers and
                    Pigeon Creek. Here he spent his entire ministry  from 1776 to November 16, 1833, the date of his
                    death. He was the first, settled Presbyterian minister west of the Alleghenies.
            The Presbyterian frontier minister combined school-teaching with his work as a
                    minister, and John McMillan, like many others, conducted a "Log
                    College." The vast educational need all about him, as well as the
                    necessity of increasing his means of livelihood, naturally lead the
                    college-trained minister to assume the schoolmaster's task in
                    connection with his ministry. John McMillan's school developed into
                    Jefferson Academy, and Jefferson Academy became Jefferson College. At
                    Washington, Pennsylvania, only fourteen miles away, another Presbyterian
                    "Log College" was formed by Thaddeus Dodd, likewise a 
                        Princeton
                     graduate, which later became 
                        Washington
                     Academy. In the course of time (1865) the two colleges merged,
                    after a long "college war," to form what is now 
                        Washington
                     and Jefferson College.
            "Politics" is the title of an interesting chapter on the Whisky
                    Rebellion in western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and John McMillan's part in it. To John McMillan the
                    "Rebellion" constituted a threat, to the orderly life of the
                    community and he courageously took the side of law and order. In fact, all the
                    frontier churches stood for obedience to law and constituted islands of order in
                    a sea of disorder.
            The author has further served the cause of frontier history by including the
                    hitherto unpublished John McMillan Journal, together with his brief
                    autobiography, in an Appendix.
            Pomona College
            William Warren Sweet
         
         
            
               America First: The Battle Against Intervention, 1940-1941.
                    By Wayne S. Cole. (
                        Madison
                    : The University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 1953, pp. xi, 305. Bibliography and index.
                    $3.50.)
            Surely it is part of the historian's province to study events and
                    movements of the recent past; and Cole's brilliant little volume, America First, proves that such study in some instances can be
                    done so thoroughly that it will never have to be done again. Inaccessibility of
                    materials used to be the plea against full-dress historical investigation of
                    events within  one's own
                    generation, but by great ingenuity Cole, beginning with files of the America
                    First Committee now available in the Hoover Library, worked outward by means of
                    newspapers and secondary works and filled in gaps with personal interviews and
                    correspondence. The result---a history of the America First Committee from its
                    founding on September 4, 1940, to its demise on December 7, 1941---s as nearly
                    definitive as 199 pages and 805 footnotes can make it.
            Begun as a counterweight to William Allen White's Committee to Defend
                    America by Aiding the Allies, the America First Committee sought to keep the 
                        United States
                     out of the Second World War. Although composed largely of
                    conservative businessmen, the Committee had a mixed membership including two
                    labor leaders, three clergymen, two aviators, three scientists, half a dozen
                    university faculty members, a movie actor, and an actress. Several members (as
                    Cole carefully notes) had written books. The Committee carried on the usual
                    activities of American propagandist organizations devoted to the public weal; it
                    bought full-page ads in newspapers throughout the nation, organized local
                    branches in small and large cities, and belabored congressmen with letters,
                    telegrams, and phone calls. In 1940-41 it opposed Lend-Lease, convoying, and
                    amendment of the neutrality act. The Committee was not pacifist, and always
                    stood for defensive military preparation. Its program lent itself to the schemes
                    of several American fascist organizations and of Japanese and 
                        German
                     agents, but the Committee did its best to avoid such hangers-on,
                    and in the main was successful.
            Perhaps because of obligation to the many former members of America First who
                    helped in the gathering of information, Cole does not condemn, praise, or
                    otherwise express strong opinions on his subject. The reader of Cole's
                    book must judge America First on its record, which is laid out very
                    dispassionately. As Cole has written it, that record was an honorable one. The
                    movers behind the movement had their country's best interests at heart.
                    Even Charles A. Lindbergh's speeches come out rather well; one of
                    Cole's most helpful contributions is to print enough of
                    Lindbergh's alleged anti-Semitic speech at Des Moines on September 11,
                    1941, to show that the speech was grossly misconstrued by people who did not
                    bother to read what Lindbergh really said.
            
            The America First movement, as Cole has so skillfully described it, appears as
                    the sincere effort of many Americans to keep their country out of war at a time
                    when Japanese and 
                        German
                     ambition was almost inexorably drawing it in. It is easy to say
                    that the America Firsters possessed a very limited view of the strategic and
                    moral factors which, as we now see, justified American belligerency. More
                    people, however, than are now willing to admit to it, were isolationists in
                    1941. Probably they were wishing for the impossible: a return to the unhurried
                    and utterly safe years of the century before 1914, when Americans peacefully
                    spread across and began to develop the vast resources of half a continent
                    without the distraction of foreign wars. America First, perhaps, was an
                    honorable if short-sighted attempt to preserve a way of life which had gone
                    forever.
            Indiana University
            Robert H. Ferrell
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Illinois
                         in the Second World War. By Mary Watters. (
                        Springfield
                    : 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Library, 1951. Vol. I: Operation Home
                        Front, pp. xiii, 444. Illustrations. Vol. II: The
                        Production Front, pp. ix, 591. Index, bibiography, and illustrations.
                    $5.00.)
            It is no small assignment to write a book about 
                        Illinois
                    , the third most populous state in the union, with the sixth largest
                    city in the world. In 1940, 
                        Illinois
                     ranked first among the states in agriculture, second in railroad
                    mileage, third in manufacturing, fourth in petroleum production, and ninth in
                    per capita income. It boasted of the World's Greatest Newspaper but
                    reluctantly admitted to one of the nation's poorest rural school
                    systems. lit provided domicile for a host of colorful figures---wily demagogues,
                    agrarian lobbyists, autocratic labor bosses, arrogant journalists, mesozoic
                    capitalists, medieval philosophers, millionaire playboys with social
                    consciousness, and evangelistic entrepreneurs. In pre-Pearl Harbor days it was
                    torn by political dissension, labor strife, racial discrimination, bickering
                    between government and business, and the bitter isolationist-interventionist
                    debate. When war came, however, Illinoisans of all persuasions closed ranks.
                    Nearly a million of them entered the armed services. More than 600,000
                    Chicagoans marched for thirteen hours  in a
                    civilian defense parade. 
                        Illinois
                     industrialists contracted for 27 billion dollars’ worth
                    of war supplies; 
                        Illinois
                     workers produced more artillery, radar equipment, margarine, and
                    tin cans than the workers of any other state; 
                        Illinois
                     farmers increased their food production by 38 per cent, enough to
                    furnish every inhabitant of the nation during each war year with 90 pounds of
                    pork, 10 pounds of beef, 18 eggs, 3 bushels of corn, and half a bushel of
                    soybeans.
            All of this and much more is packed into the two volumes and 959 pages of Dr.
                    Watter's history of 
                        Illinois
                     in the Second World War. In twelve lengthy chapters she tells the
                    story of civilian defense, selective service, civilian war services, bond sales,
                    rationing, price control, the contributions of schools and colleges, war
                    industries, problems of transport, labor's role in the war,
                    agricultural production, and political developments. Her pages are crammed with
                    statistics, illustrated with clever cartoons from the 
                        Chicago
                     newspapers, and enlivened by apt quotations from pundits, public
                    spokesmen, and plain citizens. That the latter did the best job of voicing the
                    American war spirit may be illustrated by these lines from the letter of a 
                        Peoria
                     Air Force Cadet:
            
                    We are proud, eager, willing and anxious to fight. Not for some of the
                        reasons that you hear on the radio or in the newspapers but for bigger
                        ideas. To do our duty, to acquit ourselves as men, and to be able to return
                        home and know that we did the job and to us belongs some of the fruits of
                        the labor. (Vol. I, p. 188)
                
            Miss Watters spent four years in the process of assimilating material which the 
                        Illinois
                     Division of War Records and Research began accumulating in 1942.
                    The scope of her research is staggering, ranging from reports prepared
                    especially by small manufacturing firms and county Red Cross chapters for the
                    state war history project, through newspaper files, house organs, and state and
                    federal documents, to the retained records of the 
                        Illinois
                     War Council. She seems to have used all available data except the
                    records of federal war agencies in the National Archives. The results of her
                    labors illustrate both the remarkable extent to which contemporary history can
                    be written in an objective vein and the impossibility of pretending to be
                    definitive about it. As a narrative of events during dramatically crowded years,
                    her work is almost beyond criticism, but Miss Watters would probably  be the first to admit that it does not pronounce a
                    single final judgment on the relative importance of 
                        Illinois
                    ’ contribution to the war effort, or the impact of the
                    war upon 
                        Illinois
                    . It can be taken for granted, however, that the future historian
                    who may be in a position to make these judgments (after the lapse of time, the
                    release of private papers, and the publication of the government's
                    classified documents) will have to start with Dr. Watters’ book as
                    his base of operations.
            Anyone acquainted in the slightest degree with the task of relating the problems
                    and accomplishments of eight million people during five years of whirlwind
                    activity is bound to be astonished at this effort to compress it within two
                    volumes. 
                        Virginia
                     has taken six to cover only part of the field, Indiana plans to
                    attempt it in ten, and both these states are smaller than 
                        Illinois
                    . Miss Watters, furthermore, not only covers the war years, but
                    delves generously into background history, tracing the rise of labor unions in 
                        Illinois
                    , for example, from the organization of the State Federation in
                    1884, and in other cases reaching as far back as Plato (whose program of
                    education for the guardians of The Republic is compared to the
                    Navy V-12 program). Things are also placed in their national as well as their
                    historical setting---almost as much space is devoted to the evolution of
                    policies and agencies in 
                        Washington
                     as in 
                        Illinois
                    . While all this is extremely helpful, it results in still further
                    starvation of the local story until sometimes nothing much is left but skin and
                    bones. Page after page reads like a descriptive catalogue or a gazetteer. The
                    author believes that this weakness is inherent in her material. "Much
                    of it will be tedious in the telling," she warns, then adds,
                    "no doubt it was more tedious in the doing." Fortunately, the
                    war years in 
                        Illinois
                     were dotted with colorful incidents---the chair-borne assault upon
                    Sewell Avery, the building of the prairie shipyards at Seneca, the birth of
                    Roosevelt College, the murder of George P. McNear, the battle of the millions
                    between McCormick's Tribune and Field's Sun---which are narrated with verve and style. Unfortunately,
                    these incidents sometimes seem few and far between.
            In some respects this work is a pioneering venture. Other states have already
                    published books which deal with some particular phase of their war effort, but 
                        Illinois
                     is, I believe, the first to cover the entire story, and certainly
                    the only one to  assign it to a single
                    author. As a pathfinder, Dr. Watters has undoubtedly broken trails which the
                    writers of other state histories will follow, for good or ill. Her study
                    illustrates both the importance of writing war history on the state level and
                    the pitfalls into which such treatments are almost predestined tm stumble.
                    Unquestionably the major problem to be faced is the degree of genuine
                    significance to be attributed to what transpires within artificial state
                    boundaries. Problems of selective service, price control, bond sales, war
                    production, manpower distribution, and hundreds of others were essentially
                    national problems, with pretty much the same impact in 
                        Illinois
                     as in 
                        New York
                     or 
                        California
                    . The treatment of such generalized issues in a particular community
                    is likely to take three equally unsatisfactory directions. One tendency is
                    ‘to handle the matter frankly as a national problem, assuming that
                    the national experience applies to the state, but failing to consider local
                    variations which, if not significant, may at least be interesting. At the other
                    extreme lies the temptation to emphasize only the matters in which
                    one's own state was unique or superior—first in this, the
                    most of that, earliest with this, originator of that—and so on, to
                    the point of monotony. Miss Watters exhibits a full measure of such local pride,
                    but also has the courage to admit 
                        Illinois
                    ’ more dubious distinctions—for example, the
                    highest percentage of federal child-labor law violations (I, 374) and the
                    slowest rate of conversion to industrial war production (II, 15). The third, and
                    perhaps least justifiable method of treating a national problem on the local
                    level is to proceed as if it were purely a question of relations between 
                        Washington
                     and a single state capital, with no reference to the similar, or
                    peculiarly different situations in the sister states. Dr. Watters employs each
                    of these techniques at different times without quite succeeding in finding one
                    which is entirely satisfactory. It may well be non-existent. She does, however,
                    demonstrate one significant fact about state-nation relationships which was true
                    not only of 
                        Illinois
                     but certainly of Indiana and probably of every state. This was the
                    essentially grass-roots character of the war effort, evident not only in the
                    autonomy of local draft, boards and ration panels, but also in the prevailing
                    impatience of American citizens at all levels with directives handed down from
                    above. State offices quarreled with 
                        Washington
                    , district offices with 
                        Springfield
                    , local offices  with 
                        Peoria
                    , and the ordinary citizen with everybody. In civilian defense as
                    well as in many another war activity, 
                        Chicago
                     was a law unto itself, but bitter indeed was the 
                        Illinois
                     War Council at being by-passed by Fiorello La Guardia and the OCD.
                    In spite of the regimentation imposed by the hard necessities of war, Americans
                    retained a singularly high degree of the spirit, at least, of individualism.
            Dr. Watters treats such matters as these courageously and objectively. The
                    intransigence of the 
                  
                            Chicago
                         Tribune, the reactionary attitude of the 
                        Illinois
                     Manufacturer's Association, and the corruption of
                    Governor Green's political machine are handled with the same
                    dispassionate clarity as the blunders of New Deal bureaucrats, the callous
                    infidelity of certain labor leaders, and the hypocrisy of the Kelly-Nash
                    colossus. Without taking any pronounced personal stand between the alternatives
                    of collectivism and individualism, Miss Watters seems to test all questions with
                    the pragmatic standards employed by the people of 
                        Illinois
                     themselves, who elected at one time or another Mayors Kelly and
                    Kennelly, Governors Green and Stevenson, and Senabrs Brooks and Douglas.
            Dr. Watters has done such a magnificent job with so difficult an undertaking that
                    one is tempted to protest against the indifference with which her work has been
                    and probably will continue to be received. Distribution of 
                  
                            Illinois
                         in the SecGnd World War consists of a few hundred copies
                    which have been donated to 
                        Illinois
                     libraries and local historical societies, where they will gather
                    dust for many years to come. Sic transit gloria rnundi.
            
            
                    Indiana University
                
            Lynn W. Turner
         
         
            
               The Correspondence Between Henry Stephens Randall and Hugh Blair
                        Grigsby, 1856-1861. Edited with an introduction and notes by Frank J.
                    Klingberg and Frank W. Klingberg. Volume 43, University of 
                        California
                    
                    Publications in History. (BerkeIey and Lois Angeles:
                    University of 
                        California
                     Press, 1952, pp. ix, 196. Appendix and index. $3.00.)
            The eighty-one letters of the Randall-Grigsby correspondence have intrinsic worth
                    as well as charm and enlightenment.  Their
                    usefulness has been perfected by the resourceful and diligent editorial labors
                    of the Professors Klingberg, who have furnished an exceptionally able preface,
                    introduction, and copious notes.
            The correspondents were both college men, lawyers, editors, authors, Democrats,
                    admirers of Jefferson, farmers, and nationalists. Both had a profound interest
                    in education. Randall, a New Yorker, promoted enthusiastically the public
                    schools and served as a member of the Board for the Normal School; Grigsby, a
                    Virginian, a Yale man, was a devoted and dependable trustee of William and Mary.
            Henry Stephens Randall, a Union College graduate, developed an interest in
                    "legal constitutional, and political theory," that led him
                    intellectually into Jeffersonianism. In 1853, in his library in 
                        Cortland
                     Village, he began writing his great three-volume The
                        Life of Jefferson. As this was an authorized work, the descendants of
                    Thomas Jefferson placed the entire 
                        Monticello
                     collection at his service. In January of 1856, a letter came from
                    Hugh Blair Grigsby in which was enclosed a letter from Thomas Jefferson 
                        Randolph
                    , a grandson of Jefferson. Grigsby, learned in the institutional
                    development of 
                        Virginia
                    , was investigating the authenticity of the Mecklenburg Declaration
                    of the twentieth of May, 1775.
            Randall soon discovered that his new correspondent— then sojourning in 
                        Philadelphia
                    —could and would give all possible aid to place Jefferson
                    in a proper historical perspective. On Grigsby's advice he journeyed
                    to 
                        Philadelphia
                     to be introduced to Dr. Robley Dunglison, Governor Edward Coles,
                    and others. Grigsby and Randall exchanged views on locating papers, the value of
                    evidence, and the reliability of witnesses. Randall said, "My business
                    ought to be to tell the truth," and confessed to having "blood
                    hound staunchness in hunting down game." Until the
                    completion of The Life these letters approached a virtual
                    collaboration and left evidence of the soundness of the authors’
                    methods in historical research and criticism, wheather it be
                    Randall's The Life of Jefferson or
                    Grigsby's The 
                            Virginia
                         Convention of 1776 and The History of the 
                            Virginia
                         Federal Convention of 1788. Randall and Grigsby rightfully
                    belong in that able "Middle Group of American Historians."
            By 1857 Grigsby regretted that Randall's work would have to compete
                    with Hildreth's pro-Federalist history, but,  believing that the majority of readers were
                    conservative, he wrote to Randall that his book "on this score alone
                    will far outlive the work of your rival." Accordingly he wrote reviews
                    and did all possible to promote the widest distribution of The Life
                        of Jefferson. However, the country was less conservative than these
                    correspondents had hoped. In his letter of August 20, 1860, Randall revealed
                    that he was active in the campaign of Breckinridge and Lane in 
                        New York
                    . In the last letter of the series Grigsby volunteered, "I
                    was sad unto death" when South Carolina seceded.
            This volume is worthy of highest commendation.
            
                    Indiana State Teachers College
                
            Raymond J. Reece
         
         
            
               The Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        . Compiled and edited by Clarence Edwin Carter. Volume
                    XVIII, The Territory of Albama, 1817-1819. (
                        Washington
                    : 
                        United States
                     Government Printing Office, 1952, pp. xiii, 875. Index.
                    $5.50.)
            This volume contains the official records of the Territory of 
                        Alabama
                     as found in the Archives of the 
                        United States
                    . The subject matter is essentially a continuation of volumes V and
                    VI (The Territory of 
                            Mississippi
                        , 1798-1817). In fact, there is a chronological overlapping
                    between volume VI and the introductory portion of the present work. Hardly more
                    than a score of the more than 950 papers in this volume can be found elsewhere
                    in printed form. Information previously difficult to secure is now easily
                    accessible in regard to complicated land claims (which by the
                    editor's own admission "occupied more of the attention of
                    the officers and people of the territory than any other set of
                    events"), intricate local politics, difficulties with the postal
                    service, defense of the territory, demands for more democracy in government, and
                    many other matters important to local historians.
            The general principles laid down for previous volumes have been followed. As
                    hitherto, documents on diplomatic, Indian, and military affairs are included
                    only when they have a special significance for the territory. The 
                        Alabama
                     Territory was in existence only two years and had only one
                    governor, William Wyatt Bibb. Yet the relevant documents are so vast, even
                    within well-defined limits, that the editor 
                    was compelled to omit many of them. Although it is regrettable that funds were
                    not available to print a larger number of these papers, the reviewer feels that
                    under Carter's guidance the selections were made with fine historical
                    judgment and intelligence.
            The administration of the territory, as in previous volumes, is made the
                    principal basis on which the volume is predicated. The selections made are taken
                    chiefly from the archives of the Departments of State, Treasury, War, Post
                    Office, and Interior, from the manuscript division of the Library of Congress,
                    and from the House and Senate files. Many cross references are made to masses of
                    related materials elsewhere, including secondary authorities.
            The documents relating to the Federal Road and the difficulties of transportation
                    in the territory are of especial interest. Papers relating to the Panic of 1819
                    indicate excessive speculation in public lands in the territory. When the credit
                    system of land sales was abolished in 1820, 
                        Alabama
                     had amassed a land debt of eleven million dollars, more than half
                    the land debt of the entire country. The deposit of land revenues in the
                    territorial banks, especially those at Hunts-ville and St. Stephens, promoted
                    slack banking principles, which brought outspoken criticism from the Treasury
                    Department in 
                        Washington
                    .
            The index to this volume is detailed and accurate. The work forms a worthy
                    addition to the previous seventeen volumes on territorial history.
            
                    
                  
                            Alabama
                         Polytechnic Institute
                
            Malcolm C. McMillan
         
         
            
               The Army Air Forces in World War II. Edited by Wesley Frank
                    Craven and James Lea Cate. Volume III, Europe: Argument to V-E Day
                        January 1944 to May 1945. (
                        Chicago
                    : The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1951, pp. xxxix, 948. Illustrations, map, charts, glossary,
                    and index. $8.50.)
            This volume, the third in a projected seven-volume history of the Air Forces in
                    World War II, tends ta complete one of three themes into which the editors have
                    divided the study. Volumes one through three have as their primary consideration
                    the air operation against the European Axis.
            
            While the title seems to indicate that the narrative is begun with air operations
                    in January, 1944, this is somewhat misleading. The work begins with a fairly
                    thorough rhumb of air activity in 1943, as indeed it should for clarity for the
                    "reader whose endurance is less rugged or interest less
                    catholic" than to undertake an examination of the completed work.
                    Through the discussion of air operations of 1943 it is clearly shown that before
                    any serious consideration could be given to an invasion of northwestern Europe
                    the 
                        German
                     Air Force would have to be destroyed. While the British were not so
                    sure that the nature of this objective was essential to the projected OVERLORD
                    and ANVIL—the code names respectively for the main invasion of 
                        France
                     and of southern 
                        France
                    —AAF thinking rested upon the assumption that this
                    achievement was an indispensable preliminary to invasion. Thus while
                    CBO—combined bombing operations—had been inaugurated early
                    in 1943, with the objective of "the progressive destruction and
                    dislocation of the 
                        German
                     military, industrial and economic system and undermining the morale
                    of the 
                        German
                     people," by November a re-evaluation had limited the
                    project considerably. For by this time, after the 
                        Washington
                     conference and the Quebec and Cairo meetings, it was recognized
                    that the growing power of the 
                        German
                     Air Force demanded an all-out attack, not only by the Eighth in 
                        England
                     but also the Fifteenth Air Force, based in 
                        Italy
                    . The new operation was given the code name ARGUMENT and its
                    objective was graphically stated in a New Year's message of General
                    Henry H. Arnold addressed to the commanding generals of the Eighth and Fifteenth
                    Air Forces: "Therefore my personal message to you—this is a
                    MUST—is to Destroy the Enemy Air Force wherever you find them, in the
                    air, on the ground and in the factories."
            The increased tempo of air activity against 
                        German
                     production brought to the fore, as never before, the problem of
                    providing long-range fighter escort for the bombers. For some time it was highly
                    questionable whether the supply of long-range escort could be provided at all,
                    but as the range of the fighters was slowly extended the issue became less
                    pressing. As early as August, 1943, the radius of action of the P-47 had been
                    extended to 340 miles, but this was not nearly sufficient to cover the deep
                    penetrations of the bombers into 
                        Germany
                    . The hopes of the Air Force were then pinned on the P-38, the
                    fighter already favored among the personnel 
                    in the Mediterranean and the Pacific. With the addition of two seventy-five
                    gallon wing tanks the P-38's could perform escort to a maximum of 520
                    miles, and on November 3, 1943, they saw their first combat and enjoyed their
                    first victory in the ETO. By this time it was becoming increasingly evident that
                    the P-51 could be developed into a more maneuverable fighter and one of longer
                    range than the P-38. Thus, early in 1944, the principles on which allocations
                    had previously been made between the Eighth and Ninth (a tactical unit) were
                    completely reversed. The Eighth, a strategic unit, was to be almost exclusively
                    equipped with P-51's, while P-38's and P-47's
                    were to be transferred to the Ninth Air Force. To the amazement of
                    "many seasoned observers," including Hermann Goering, American
                    fighters were flying with bombers to Berlin and even beyond by March, 1944.
            The work also devotes attention to the sometimes forgotten campaign in 
                        Italy
                    , where the Fifteenth Air Force and Twelfth Air Force were in
                    operation. To the Fifteenth must go much of the praise for the success of
                    strategic air operations, even though the Eighth got most of the publicity. And
                    while the strategic and the tactical phases of the war are the primary
                    consideration, there is one section of the book devoted to "Supporting
                    Operations." Such topics as "air support for the
                    underground" and "logistical mobility" are treated
                    fully. As far as the air war over Europe is concerned, there was no dramatic
                    finish marked by a surrender or an armistice. There was merely a statement on
                    April 16, 1945, declaring that "with few profitable targets
                    left," the bomber offensive was officially finished, though several
                    missions were dispatched thereafter.
            The last chapter, entitled "Mission Accomplished," is an
                    attempt to evaluate the contribution of the Army Air Forces toward final victory
                    in Europe. Both the editors and the author of this chapter, John E. Flagg, seem
                    to realize that such an appraisal is no easy task. It is encouraging to find
                    judgments offered that seem both "fair and sober" with
                    "overenthusiastic" claims corrected—albeit
                    reluctantly at times. There can be little argument with the conclusion drawn
                    that although air power did not win the war, without air ascendency over Europe
                    victory could not have been gained at all.
            
                    
                  
                            Kokomo
                         Extension Center, Indiana University
                
            Richard Jellison
         
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Old 
                        Bethlehem
                     Church and Cemetery
            
                    Nova May Mertens
                    *
                
            The 125th reunion of members and descendants of members of 
                        Bethlehem
                     Church, 
                        Johnson County
                    , Indiana, will be held in September, 1953. L. A. Young, of 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana, whose wife's great-grandfather, David Adams,
                    is buried in 
                        Bethlehem
                     Cemetery, has contributed an early history of the church and
                    cemetery in which he relates that on August 25, 1826, Arthur Bass entered the W
                    1/2 of Section 28, Township 11 North, Range 3 East, 
                        Johnson County
                    , Indiana, a tract containing about eighty acres of land. At about
                    this time Bass and his wife Rebecca offered to give a part of this land to the
                    public for church purposes and for a burying ground, but the transfer was not
                    actually made until February 22,1828. The deed was attested by Richardson
                    Hensley, J. P., and recorded in the Recorder's Office of 
                        Johnson County
                     at a cost of 721/2 cents.
            Shortly after the making of this deed the early settlers met and organized a
                    church, electing as trustees Aaron Holeman, Albert Roberts, and Richardson
                    Hensley. Bass and the three trustees, coincidentally, lived on three sides and
                    adjacent to the ground.
            The settlers called their church the Presdestinarian Baptist Church of Christ. It
                    has been known locally as 
                        Bethlehem
                     Church.
            The first church building was a log structure, built about 1828. This was
                    probably used until it gave place to a frame building constructed about 1858.
                    Shortly after this time Hiram T. Craig was selected at a business meeting to
                    prepare the Articles of Faith and Rules of Decorum to replace those lost in a
                    fire.
            The records show Elder Hiram T. Craig as the first minister of 
                        Bethlehem
                     Church. He was followed by Enoch Tabor who ministered to the
                    congregation for a number of years. Elder E. D. Herod, who lived for many years
                    just south of the church and is buried in the cemetery, succeeded Tabor. Elder
                    J. M. Denton, originally from 
                        Tennessee
                    , was 
                  
                     * Mrs. Nova May Mertens is a resident
                            of Indianapolis, Indiana.
               
                     minister to the 
                        Bethlehem
                     congregation from 1890 to 1899. Elder E. T. Hampbn served as the
                    last minister, closing his ministry about 1911. John H. Wolfington and Ambrose
                    Davenport were ordained ministers and preached at different times for the 
                        Bethlehem
                     congregation.
            When the church had stood idle a number of years a movement was made to make it a
                    community center. The old members, who were few and scattered in several states,
                    agreed to transfer the property to the community for religious purposes and a
                    free burying ground. The trustees of 
                        Bethlehem
                     Church, Thomas W. Herod, Albert L. Minner, and William R.
                    Winchester, in 1925 transferred this property by quit claim deed to the trustees
                    of the 
                        Bethlehem
                     Cemetery Association, Marion M. Zook, James Holeman, and Timothy A.
                    Lake.
            In 1946 the 
                        Bethlehem
                     Church and Cemetery Association was organized as a result of the
                    interest in the old church and cemetery. The names of the present officers of
                    the corporation are: Ocle Smith, President; Wayne Holman, Vice-president; Mrs.
                    Pearl Miller, Secretary and Treasurer; Leonard Barton, Reesa Grady, Zora
                    Sleighter, and Mrs. Beryl Maxwell, Directors.
            It is said that. there are as many graves in 
                        Bethlehem
                     cemetery without stones as with stones. As the stones are very
                    difficult to read and there are stones, rocks, and shells over all the ground of
                    the cemetery, the following records are not claimed to be perfect:
            
               Adams, Henry, b. Nov. 20, 1859.
               Adams, Susan, wife of Henry, b. March 16, 1859, d. Nov. 21, 1908.
               Adams, David, Sr., government stone: Pvt. Bailey's Regt., Pa
                        troop, Rev. War, 1839; old stone, d. Aug. 1, 1839, 81 yr.
               (Three rocks in row north of Adams stone might indicate graves.)
               Adams, Nancy O., dau. of S. T. and J. Adams, d. Dec. 1, 1874, 5 mo.
               Adams, infant son of S. T. and J. Adams, b. Feb. 13, 1881.
               Adams, Charity J., dau. of S. T. and J. Adams, d. Aug. 4, 1879, 5 mo. 25
                        da.
               Adams, Ida May, dau. of S. T. and J. Adams, b. Sept. 28, 1882, d. Sept.
                        14, 1883.
               Adams, Stella Esta, dau of S. T. and J. Adams, d. July 11, 1890, 1 yr. 1
                        mo. 26 da.
               Adams, Ola Edna, dau. of Samuel and Jemima Adams, b. Sept. 3, 1891, d.
                        June 18, 1892.
               (Near grave of Ola Adams is atone marked "E. B.")
               Adams, Easter, b. Oct., 1854, d. Oct., 1935.
               
               Adams, Ralph C., son of J. C. and E. L. Adams, b. Apr. 7, 1890, d. Sept.,
                        1895.
               Adams, Jacob, b. July 24, 1829, d. Apr. 9, 1902.
               Adams, Mary, wife of Jacob Adams, b. Feb. 13, 1836, d. March 22, 1891, 56
                        yr. 1 mo. 9 da.
               Adams, infant dau. of J. and M. Adams, d. Nov. 2, 1858.
               Adams, Rebecca A., dau. of J. and M. Adams, d. July 13, 1858, 1 yr. 3 mo.
                        24 da.
               Adams, Henry, b. Feb. 2, 1804, d. March 26, 1890, 86 yr. 1 mo. 11 da.
               Adams, Amy, wife of Henry Adams, old stone: Oct. 28, 1842, 31 yr. 11 mo.;
                        new stone: Nov. 28, 1842, 31 yr.
               Adams, Nancy, wife of Henry Adams, [second wife?], d. Oct. 31,
                        1883, 67 yr. 9 mo. 24 da.
               Adams, Frances, dau. of Henry and Amy Adams, b. Jan. 1, 1831, d. Sept. 13,
                        1833.
               Adams, John, son of Henry and Amy Adams, b. Nov. 15, 1832, d. Oct. 15,
                        1833.
               Adams, Abraham, b. Sept. 1, 1835, d. Nov. 11, 1860.
               Adams, Ruth, dau. of Hughes and Ruth Adams, d. Oct. 4, 1860, 17 yr. 10 mo.
               Admire, Frances, dau. of Squire Admire, d. Aug. 11, 1855, 55 yr. 2 mo. 16
                        da.
               Baker, Jake, (no information on stone.)
               Bass, John H., son of H. and P. Bass, d. March 6, 1861, 6 mo. 5 da.
               (Two stones near this one might indicate graves.)
               Bass, Susannah Frances, wife of Henry Bass, d. March 13, 1857, 30 yr.
                        [?] mo. 13 da.
               Bass, Mary, dau. of Henry and Susannah Bass, b. Jan. 3, 1854, d. Oct.
                        [?], 1877.
               Bass, Ameilia, wife of Arthur Bass, d. Sept. 27, 1851 [?].
               Bass, infant son of A. B. and M. Bass, d. May 18, 1882, 1 da.
               (One stone near this, no information.)
               Bass, Arthur, d. Apr. 18, 1881, 86 yr. 4 mo. 18 da.
               Bass, Rhoda, wife of Arthur Bass, d. Oct. 16, 1865, 40 yr. 8 mo. 4 da.
               (Four stones, of the same design as those of the Bass family, indicating
                        they may be of the same family, are located one stone east of Susannah
                        Frances Bass, two stones east of Mary Frances Bass, two stones north of Mary
                        Frances Bass, and one stone north of Mary Frances Bass, the latter marked
                        "J.")
               Bass, Malinda, d. Oct. 26, 1843, 11 yr. 11 mo.
               Bass, Rebecca, dau. of Arthur Bass, 11 yr. [?] (Stone very old;
                        dates illegible.)
               Bass, Rebecca, "In memory of Rebecca Bass
                        [—]" (Illegible; near other Rebecca Bass stone.)
               (Next two stones, illegible, seem to be graves of children.)
               Bass, John H. son of H. and P. Bass, d. March 6, 1861, 6 mo. 5 da.
               Bass, William A. [?], b. 1842 "and departed this life
                        1844."
               Bass, Catherine, d. Jan. 6, 1858, 3 mo. [?].
               Bass, Charles S., d. Nov. 22, 1853, 8 yr. 7 mo. [?]
                        da.?
               Bolt, Margaret Ann, wife of Jessie Bolt, d. Jan. 15, 1861, 19 yr. 3 mo. 27
                        da.
               Borin, Katherine Louise, b. Aug. 15, 1883, d. Apr. 13, 1938.
               
               Buckner, William, son of William and Ellen Buckner, b. Feb. 25, 1851, d.
                        Feb. 4, 1897, 45 yr. 11 mo. 9 da.
               Buckner, George W., son of W. M. and E. Buckner, d. Feb. 12, 1851, 1 yr. 6
                        mo. 10 da.
               Buckner, Ellen, b. Apr. 1, 1827, d. Oct. 28, 1907.
               Buckner, Elijah, son of W. H. and E. Buckner, d. Sept. 8 [?],
                        1877, 15 yr. 6 mo. 27 da.
               Budd, Horace J., b. Jan. 16, 1894.
               Budd, Mandy L., b. Jan. 7, 1892, d. June 4, 1941.
               Busey, William H., 1833-1874.
               Busey, Melvina, 1840-1925.
               (On Busey stone is "Mary B. Harvey." See Harvey.)
               Callon, James T., b. Nov. 18, 1833, d. Nov. 17, 1902.
               Callon, Susan M., wife of James Callon, b. June 12, 1841, d. June 3, 1913.
               Canatsey, Ira, May-Oct. 1881.
               Caywood, Elizabeth, dau. of Thomas and Ann [?] N. Caywood, d.
                        Nov. 12, 1853, 15 yr. 16 da.
               Chamberlain, Cyril, d. Dec. 6, 1863, 38 yr.
               Cochran, 
                     Patrica, March 11
                     Louise, March 13, 1933
                     Zellia May, Nov. 28, 1936, May 10, 1937
                     Lester
                  
               
               Coleman, 
                     Francis D., 1856-1912.
                     Murphy
                     F. M., 1856-1901.
                     Infant, Oct. 21, 1892-Oct. 22, 1892.
                     George, 1886-1903.
                  
               
               Coleman, 
                            Warren
                        , d. Oct. 16, 1890, 74 yr. 3 mo. 4 da.
               Coleman, George, b. Apr. 27, 1852, d. July 23, 1925.
               Coleman, W. D., 1849-1933.
               Coleman, Martha A., (on stone of W. D.), 1849-1941.
               Coleman, Eva, d. Oct. 2, 1943, 70 yr. [—]
               (Near the grave of Eva Coleman is one small square stone marked
                        "J. W. C.")
               Coleman, Alonzo, son of H. and E. D. Coleman, d. Dec. 6, 1841, 2 yr. 5 mo.
                        22 da.
               Coleman, Eliza, wife of H. Coleman, d. May 9, 1843, 28 yr. 3 mo. 21 da.
               Coleman, Oliver R., son of James B. and Lethana Coleman, d. Jdy 27, 1852,
                        11 mo. 11 da.
               Coleman, Rosalia J., dau. of James B. and Lethana Coleman, d. July 8,
                        1857, 4 yr. 5 mo. 1 da.
               Coleman, F. M., d. Oct. 21, 1884, 63 yr. 6 ma. 11 da.
               Coleman, Jacob, June 17, 1789, March 23, 1883.
               Coleman, Ada, wife of F. M. Coleman, d. Dec. 14, 1882, 49 yr. 15 da.
               Coleman, Margaret E., dau. of F. and M. A. Coleman, d. 1852, 8 yr. 10 mo.
               Coleman, Jacob C., son of F. and M. A. Coleman, d. Sept., 1855, 8 yr. 9
                        mo. 2 da.
               Coleman, Mary A., wife of F. M. Coleman, d. Oct. 14, 1879, 54 yr. 10 mo. 2
                        da.
               
               Collett, William E., "father," b. Apr. 28, 1841, d. Oct.
                        18, 1905, 64 yr. 5 mo. 21 da.
               Collett, Mary J., "mother," b. Apr. 12, 1849, d. Jan.
                        29, 1928.
               Collett, Nancy, b. Apr. 17, 1872, d. Nov. 23, 1883, 11 yr. 7 mo. 6 da.,
                        dau. of W. E. and M. J. Collett.
               Collett, infant son of W. E. and M. J. Collett.
               Daughter of W. E. and M. J. Collett (see Emma Kennedy.)
               Cox, Willit, son of William and Martha Cox, d. Dec. 4, 1858, [age
                        ?].
               Cox, David, d. Feb. 28, 1869, 38 yr. 10 mo. 29 da.
               Cox, William, d. Sept. 15, 1869, 75 yr. 8 mo. 11da.
               Cox, Roxey Ann, dau. of William and Martha Cox, 19 yr. 9 da., d. Jan. 14,
                        1854.
               Cox Martha, wife of William Cox, d. March 24, 1853, 46 yr. 4 mo. 3 da.
               Coonfield, Daniel S., b. 1856, no date of death.
               Coonfield, Mary E., wife of Daniel S. Coonfield, b. 1868 [or 1863], d.
                        1924.
               Coonfield, Elizabeth, wife of L. N. Coonfield, d. Dec. [?] 12,
                        1857, 25 yr. 1 mo. 2 da.
               Coonfield, infant son of L. N. and Elizabeth Coonfield.
               Daniel, Elizabeth, 1826-1906.
               David, Joan, 1934-1937.
               (Another stone near Joan David is maked "B. J. D.")
               Davenport, William Isaac, son of A. and N. J. Davenport, b. Feb. 12, 1846,
                        d. July 11, 1863.
               Davenport, Lydia D., 1857-1908.
               Davenport. Ambrose, d. Feb. 27, 1892. 66 yr. 2 mo. 7 da.
               Davenport, Nancy, d. Dec. 6, 1870, 46 yr. 2 mo. 6 da.
               Davenport, John W., b. Oct. 28, 1854, d. Aug. 21, 1868.
               Davenport, Austin, 1845-1916.
               Davenport, Retta, 1850-1913.
               Davenport, William, b. March 25, 1800, d. Aug. 16, 1862.
               Davenport, Delilah, wife of William Davenport, d. May 6, 1856, 55 yr. 4
                        mo. 1 da.
               Davenport, Lucy J., wife of William Davenport, d. Nov. 16, 1890, 68 yr. 10
                        mo. 23 da.
               Denton, Marcus [?], dau. of J. M. and O. S. Denton, d. Nov. 27,
                        1896, 7 yr. 10 mo. 28 da.
               Ennis, James W., b. March 31, 1837, d. Feb. 1, 1900.
               Ennis, Amanda, wife of James Ennis, b. Feb. 15, 1843, d. Feb. 13, 1915.
               Ferguson, Fanny J., wife of B. [or R.] Ferguson, d. Dec. 17, 1870, 43
                        [?] yr. 1 mo. 27 da.
               Ferguson, Andrew, son of R. and F. J. Ferguson, d. Dec. 14, 1870, 22 yr. 8
                        mo.
               Forrester, Arnotes, Co. C., 22nd Ind. Inf.
               Frazier, Levi, Indiana, Pvt. 1 class, Med. Dept., d. Aug. 5, 1920.
               Gillaspy, Cordia D., d. April 6, 1894, 25 yr. 7 mo. 28 da.
               Gillaspy, infant son of G. A. and C. Gillaspy, d. April 2, 1889, 1 day.
               Gross, 
                     Eunice, 1858-1944.
                     Jemima, 1850-1930.
                     Mary A., 1824-1906.
                     Jacob, 1813-1897.
                  
               
               
               Gross, Elizabeth, wife of William E. Gross, d. March 18, 1855, 25 yr. 3
                        mo. 12 da.
               Haddock, Owen A., d. Oct. 2, 1950, 70 yr, 7 mo. 7 da.
               Hall, Yandall, son of Edgar and Anna Hall.
               Harvey, Mary B., 1862-1897, (on Busey stone.)
               Haskell, M. M., b. 1804 [?].
               (Next to Haskell are stones marked "E. E. J., "
                        "I. M. J.," and "R. J.")
               Hensley, Rowland Boyd, son of B. and M. Hensley, b. Aug. 15, 1834, d. Oct.
                        27, 1839.
               Hensley, Mary A., dau. of James and Nancy Hensley, d. Oct. 19, 1842, 2 yr.
                        7 mo. 12 da.
               Hensley, William J., killed in Battle of Anteitam, Sept. 17, 1862, 25 yr.
                        5 mo. 3 da.
               Hensley, Mary A., wife of William J. Hensley, d. Nov. 16, 1869, 37 yr. 10
                        mo. 25 da.
               Hensley, [—] nan, dau. of P. B. and B. A. Hensley, d. July 3,
                        1879, 1 yr. 1 mo. 22 da.
               Hensley, Sarah A. dau. of R. and Matilda Hensley, b. Jan. 23, 1851, d.
                        Jan. 21, 1853.
               Hensley, George G., son of W. J. and M. A. Hensley, d. April 4, 1861, 5
                        yr. 6 mo. 18 da.
               Hensley, 
                            Bloomfield
                        , b. Dec. 25, 1812, d. Jan. 9, 1852.
               Hensley, Mourning (Hudiburg-Parkhurst), wife of 
                            Bloomfield
                         Hensley, b. April 16, 1816, d. Oct. 10, 1897.
               Hensley, Moses, dau. of R. and Matilda Hensley, d. Nov. 13, 1858,
                        [?] yr. 11 da.
               Hensby, Elizabeth M., dau. of R. and Matilda Hensley, b. Nov. 28, 1845, d.
                        June 6, 1853, 7 yr. 6 mo. 7 da.
               Hensley, Richardson, Sr., b. March 10, 1779, d. Oct. 26, 1868.
               Hensley, Elizabeth, wife of Richardson Hensley, b. Sept. 15, 1783, d. Apr.
                        15, 1859.
               Hensley, Richardson, Jr., d. May 9, 1859, 41 yr. 3 mo. 27 da.
               Hensley, Matilda, wife of Richardson Hensley, Jr., b. July 30, 1826, d.
                        Sept. 29, 1910.
               Hensley, R. Thomas, 1844-1926.
               Hensley, Sarah R., wife of R. Thomas Hensley, 1848-1929.
               Hensley, Lewis son of B. and M. Hensley, d. Sept. 5, [?] 1863,
                        16 yr. 5 mo. 12 da.
               Herod, Elder E. D., b. Dec. 28, 1815, d. Aug. 10, 1890, 74 yr. 7 mo. 12
                        da.
               Herod, Lucinda, wife of Elder E. D. Herod, b. March 22, 1823, d. Jan. 30,
                        1888, 64 yr. 10 mo. 8 da.
               Hicks, Waymibe [?], son of [—] and Catherine Hicks,
                        d. Jan. [or June] 12, 1855, 20 yr. 7 mo.
               Hill, Mordicai, d. March 15, 1852, "in the 34 year of his
                        life."
               Holman, John, son of Aaron and Aletha Holman, d. Dec. 24,1840, 20 yr. 7
                        mo. 23 da.
               (Next, to the John Holman stone is a large illegible stone. Next to it is
                        one, mostly illegible, marked "In memory of [—] 1839
                        [—]." In the same locality is a stone marked
                        "[—]. E. J.")
               Holman, 
                     James F., 1871-1945.
                     Eunice C., 1881-1936.
                  
               
               
               Holman, Hazel Jemimee, infant dau. of James and Eunice Holman, b. July 27,
                        1898, d. July 29, 1898.
               Holman, Hirum T., son of M. and A. Holman, b. Feb. 14, 1859.
               Holman, William A., b. Aug. 3, 1845, d. Aug. 9, 1895.
               Holman, Arty [?] G., dau. of W. A. and L. E. Holman, d. Aug 17,
                        1873, 9 mo. 22 da.
               Holeman, George B., son of J. M. and Elizabeth, d. Aug. 2, 1890, 24 yr. 8
                        mo.
               Holeman, James M., b. March 24, 1826, d. July 1, 1903.
               Holeman, James W., son of J. M. and E. Holeman, d. Dec. 27, 1862, 4 yr.
                        3mo. 21 da.
               Holeman, Aaron, d. Jan. 28, 1871, 78 yr. 5 mo.
               Holeman, Aletha, wife of Aaron Holeman, d. Oct. 31, 1869, 76 yr.
               Holeman, Lillis Emaline, dau. of J. M. and Elizabeth Holeman, d. Feb. 17
                        [?], 1860 [?], [age?].
               Holeman, William, son of [—] and Elizabeth Holeman, b. Dec. 20
                        [?], 1840, 2 [?] yr. 27 da.
               Holeman, Nannie E., dau. of W. A. and L. E. Holeman, d. July 18, 1871, 1
                        mo. 10 da.
               Holman, 
                     Aaron 
                                    Benton
                                , 1851-1925
                     Mary Jane, 1855-1887.
                  
               
               (Carved on the stone of Aaron and Mary Jane Holman is "Mima
                        Holman," no dates.)
               Holman, Lina [?] Odessa, dau. of M. J. and W. D. Holman, d.
                        Feb. 21, 1879, 9 yr. 9 mo. 4 da.
               Holeman, Mary Della, dau. of A. J. and E. J. Holeman, d. April 22, 1881,
                        10 yr. 6 mo. 9 da.
               Holeman, Rheubin G., son of J. A. and M. E. Holeman, b. Sept. 2, 1896, d.
                        March 27, 1897.
               Holeman, I. J., b. April 7, 1844, d. Dec. 25, 1919.
               Holeman, E. J., b. March 29, 1845, d. May 23, 1893.
               Holeman, M. I., b. Oct. 13, 1864, d. April 22, 1881.
               Holeman, A. L., b. May 6, 1883, d. Dec. 19, 1883.
               Hudinburgh, Thomas Sr., d. Feb. 20, 1842, 80 yr.
               Hudinburgh, Mary, wife of Thomas Hudinburgh, Sr. d. Feb. 25, 1842, 80 yr.
               Hudiburgh, Thomas, son of Thomas Sr., d. June 30, 1865, 78 yr. 3 mo. 9 da.
               Hudinburgh, Polly, wife of Thomas Hudinburgh, Jr., d. Sept. 24, 1852,
                        "in her 52 yr."
               Hudiburgh, Thomas J., son of T. and P. Hudiburgh, d. April 12, 1834,
                        "in his 7 yr."
               Infant son of T. and P. Hudiburgh. (Twin.)
               Hudiburgh, John T., aon of L. and A. Hudiburgh, d. Aug. 21, 1866, 8 da.
               Jacobs, Paul J., d. Dec. 20, 1951, 31 yr.
               Jacobs, John M., 1840-1911.
               Jacobs, Martha J., wife of John M. Jacobs, 1849-1910.
               Jacobs, Sarah, d. March 9, 1863, 50 yr.
               (A rock between the graves of John and Martha Jacobs and that of Sarah
                        Jacobs might indicate a grave.)
               
               Kelly, Comadore P., son of B. S. and M. J. Kelly, d. Dee. 8, 1861, 1 yr. 2
                        mo. 8 da.
               Kelso, A. B., b. July 4, 1806, d. April 2, 1878.
               Kelso, E., wife of A. B. Kelso, b. July 20, 1811, d. Feb. 18, 1871.
               Kelso, George L. G., son of A. B. and Eliza Kelso, d. Oct. 9, 1843, 3
                        [?] yr. 7 mo. 12 da.
               Kelso, Charles B., d. Oct. 25, 1846, 61 yr.
               Kennedy, Emma, dau of W. E. and M. J. Collett, d. Feb. 14, 1893, 24 yr. 6
                        mo. 8 da.
               
                  
                            Kent
                        , Eunice Kephart, 1831-1912.
               Kephart, Mary A., wife of Jamea Kephart, d. April 24, 1881, 55 yr. 9 mo. 6
                        da.
               Kephart, James, d. Sept. 5, 1891, 68 yr. 1 mo. 18 da.
               Kephart, J. P., son of L. and R. A. Kephart, d. Jan. 5, 1851, 3 mo. 3 da.
               Kephart, John S., b. Oct. 21, 1826.
               Kephart, Mary, wife of John S. Kephart, b. April 27, 1827, d. June 16,
                        1867.
               Kephart, Sarah F., wife of T. Kephart, d. July 30, 1877, 23 yr. 2 mo. 6
                        da.
               Kephart, Samuel, d. Aug. 8, 1885, 83 yr. 8 mo.
               Kephart, Lydia, dau. of Samuel and Jemima Kephart, d. Jan. 19, 1860, 12
                        yr. 6 da.
               Kephart, America, dau. of Samuel and Jemima Kephart, d. March 5, 1841, 5
                        mo. 8 da.
               Kephart, Barbary, dau. of Samuel and Jemima Kephart, d. Jan. [or June] 26,
                        1843.
               Kephart, Daniel, d. Aug. 17, 1846, 11 yr. 9 mo. 22 da.
               (There is a stone between the grave of Lydia Kephart and Jacob Moore,
                        showing it to be a grave also. No data.)
               Kephart, Melissa J., dau. of Jacob and Zurilda Kephart, d. Oct. 23, 1853
                        [or 1856], 4 yr. 10 mo. [?] da.
               
                  
                     Knox, Sylvania
                  , "Ih memory of 
                            Sylvania
                        , dau. of L. [?] J. and S. H. [?] 
                            Knox
                        , [—] July, 1851, 17 [?] yr.
                        [—]."
               
                  
                            Knox
                        , Sally Wier, "In memory of Sally Wier 
                            Knox
                        , wife of Andrew J. Knox, d. Aug. 23, 1840, aged 26
                        [?] yr. 15 mo."
               Lake, Timothy A., 1859-1938.
               Lake, Cordia A., 1875-1941.
               Lake, Bertha A., 1876-1951.
               Lake, 
                     George G., b. Dec. 8, 1840, d. March 15, 1909.
                     Mary, b. May 19, 1837.
                  
               
               Lake, George W., d. Oct. 29, 1863, 43 yr. 16 da.
               Lake, 
                     John, b. Sept. 16, 1815, d. Oct. 21, 1851.
                     Hannah, his wife, b. Oct. 31, 1815, d. Dec. 25, 1894.
                  
               
               (There is a stone between the graves of John and Hannah Lake, marked
                        "J. L.")
               Lake, Sarah [or Hannah], dau. of G. W. [?] and M. J. Lake, d.
                        May [or Aug.] 7, 1886, 22 yr. 3 mo. 28 da.
               Lake, 
                     Lewis, 1815-1885.
                     Margaret, 1818-1862.
                  
               
               
               Lake, infant dau. of Lewis and M. Lake, d. Aug. 17, 1860, 15 da.
               Lake, George Mc. P., son of Lewis and M. J. Lake, d. Feb. 11, 1842, 1 yr.
                        8 mo. 9 da
               Law, William, d. July 30, 1867, 56 yr. 4 mo. 2 da.
               Lag, Polly, wife of William Lang, d, Feb. [?] 26, 1857, 39 yr.
                        10 mo. 24 da.
               Lang, Eleanor T., dau. of William and Polly Lang, d. June 27, 1842, 1 yr.
                        5 mo. 22 da.
               Lang, Moses E., son of William and Polly Lang, d. Aug. 24, 1847, 28 da.
               Lang, William A., son of William and Polly Lang, d. Aug. 17, 1847, 21 da.
               Lang Samantha, dau. of William and Polly Lang, d. May 21, 1855, 3 yr. 11
                        [?] mo. [?] da.
               Lang, Polly Ann, dau. of William and Polly Lang, (stone broken, showing
                        only date of 1857, 16 yr. 11 mo. 13 da)
               (There is a large rock between the graves of Mary M. Lang and William
                        Lang, possibly indicating a grave.)
               Lang, Mary M., dau. of B. T. and A. J. Lang, d. Sept. 3, 1874, 3 yr. 4 mo.
                        28 da.
               Lang, Mary, wife of James M. Lang, d. June 8, 1865, 32 yr. 3 da.
               Leach, James M., 1846-1924.
               Leach, Lorina, 1849-1933.
               Leach, Jacob, b. Sept. 10, 1850.
               Leach, Sarah I., wife of Jacob Leach, b. Aug. 22, 1854.
               Leach, William P., b. Sept. 15, 1880, d. Oct. 25, 1905, son of J. T. and
                        S. I. Leach.
               Leach, Leta, dau. of J. T. and S. Leach, d. Dec. 7, 1893, 3 yr. 2 mo. 20
                        da.
               Leach, Joseph B., son of J. T. and S. I. Leach, d. Nov. 2, 1893, 17 yr. 10
                        mo.
               Leach, John Henry, son of J. T. and S. I. Leach, d. Nov. 11, 1893, 19 yr.
                        9 mo. 27 da.
               Leach, Clara E., dau. of J. T. and S. I. Leach, d. Oct. 2, 1893, 5 yr. 9
                        mo. 7 da.
               Lively, Emma J., dau. of William and E. Lively, d. Oct. 21, 1878, 20 yr. 8
                        mo. 18 da.
               Lloyd, Davis, son of Owen and Sarah Lloyd, d. 1856 [?].
               Lloyd, infant son of O. and S. Lloyd, b. Dec. 17, 1858 [?].
               Lloyd, Robert Clements, son of Owen and Sarah Lloyd, d. March 23, 1846, 2
                        yr. [?] mo.
               Lloyd, Edwin, d. Sept. 30, 1869, 28 yr. 10 mo. 8 da.
               (Stone marked only "M. E. L.")
               Massey, Nancy, wife of G. M. Massey, d. June 12, 1857.
               Massy, Lucinda, dau. of G. M. and N. Massy, d. Sept. 15, 1854, 4 mo. 20
                        da.
               Massy, Margaret E., dau. of G. M. and N. Massy, d. Aug. 9, 1853, 2 yr. 4
                        mo. 24 da.
               Masy, Margy, b. Aug. 1832, d. April, 1838.
               Masey, Margaret, b. Sept. 15, 1830, d. Dec. [?] 1830.
               Masy, Elemew [?], b. Dec., 1828, d. [?] 1833.
               Masy, Abraham, b. Aug. 15, 1792, d. Nov. 29, 1867.
               Masy, Elizabeth, wife of A. E. Masy, b. April 9, 1792, d. June 17, 1859.
               Masy, Robert, b. May 10, 1820, d. March 8, 1853.
               Masy, Katherine, b. April 6, 1826, d. July 2, 1850.
               
               McDaniel, Lewis, 1851-1914.
               McNaught, infant son of J. R. and R. McNaught, d. Jan. 27, 1856, 7 da.
               McNutt, James, b. March 10, 1836, d. Aug. 19, 1867.
               McNut, Willard A., son of [?]. and C. J. McNut, d. Dec. 19,
                        1861, 8 yr. 10 mo. 1 da.
               McNut, Mary, dau. of J. and M. McNut, d. Oct. 13, 1850, 20 yr. 4 mo. 21
                        da.
               McNut, John, d. Sept. 7, 1857, 61 yr. 3 mo. 21 da.
               Miller, Claude M., 1890-1914.
               Miller, Maude M., wife of Claude M. Miller, 1889-[—].
               Minner, Ralph B., son of Albert and Ella Minner, b. Feb. 9, 1892, d. June
                        29, 1892.
               Minner, James Earnest, son of Albert and Ella Minner, b. June 6, 1890, d.
                        Sept. 3, 189[?], 2 mo. 27 da.
               Minner, infant son of Albert and Ella Minner, b. Feb. 27, 1895, d. March
                        1, 1895.
               Minner, Ernest, b. Oct. 9, 1825, d. Sept. 9, 1899.
               Minner, Frederica, wife of Ernest Minner, b. Jan. 7, 1824, d. Aug. 9,
                        1904.
               Moore, Jacob, d. Aug. 1, 1854, 1 yr. 3 mo. 29 da.
               (There is a stone between the graves of Lydia Kephart and Jacob Moore
                        indicating a grave.)
               Moore, Amanda J., dau. of John M. C. and Mahala E. Moore, d. Od. 19, 1852,
                        1 yr. 9 mo. 23 da.
               Moore, William R., son of John M. C. and Mahala Moore, b. Dec. 26, 1852,
                        d. Sept. 14, 1862.
               Moore, 
                     George, 1848-1931.
                     Rachel, 1848-1855.
                     (There is another grave, that of a child, on this lot.)
                  
               
               Moore, 
                     John, b. April 3, 1820, d. Dec. 20, 1903.
                     Elizabeth, b. April 23, 1827, d. Feb. 29, 1904.
                  
               
               Moore, Sarah, dau. of Robert and Margaret Moore, d. July 16, 1851, 2 yr. 7
                        mo. 21 da.
               (There is a stone directly south of this indicating a grave.)
               Moore, Martha M., wife of D. Moore, 22 yr. 11 mo.
               Moore, 
                     Z. D., 1857-Apr. 3, 1952.
                     Eliza J., 1862-1895.
                  
               
               Moore, Nancy B., 1851-19[—].
               Moore, 
                     John, 1880-19 [—].
                     Hugh, 1879-1943.
                  
               
               
                  
                            Montgomery
                        , Hanna C., dau. of Duncan and Lillis [?], d. July
                        20, 1875, 14 yr, 7 mo. 4 da.
               
                  
                            Montgomery
                        , 
                     Mary E., wife of George M. Montgomery, d. July 21, 1885, 24 yr. 4
                                mo. 17 da.
                     Ivia M., dau. of G. M. and M. E. Montgomery, d. Sept. 6, 1885, 5
                                yr. 6 mo. 19 da.
                     (There are two illegible stones north of that of Ivia M.
                                Montgomery: on one the name ends with "b"; the
                                other is broken.)
                  
               
               
               Morris, Ruth, dau. of G. F. Morris, d. Aug. 8, 1888, 11 yr. 1 mo.
               Obenshain, Sarah J., wife of T. L. Obenshain, d. Oct. 15, 1851, 31 yr. 1
                        mo. 26 da., (buried by her people, the Hudiburgs.)
               Obenshain, 
                            Milton
                         T., son of T. L. and S. J. Obenshain, d. Nov. 20, 1851, 1 yr. 2
                        mo. 25 da.
               Obenshain, C. H., 1849-1901.
               Obenshain, S. C., 1849-[?].
               Obenshain, infant daus. of C. H. and S. C. Obenshain, Aug. 15, 1875.
               Orr, Bertie A., 1877-1951.
               Owen, Anna, wife of Thomas Owen, d. July 20, 1880, 69 yr. 3 mo.
               Owen, Edward, son of T. and A. Owen, (stone sunk too deep to read.)
               Owen, John W., son of T. and A. Owen, d. May 22, 1861, 13 yr. 2 mo. 11 da.
               Owen, Price, son of T. and A. Owen, d. Sept. 8, 1844, 8 yr. 4 mo. 26 da.
               Owen, Nancy, wife of Thomas Owen, d. July 26, 1890, 69 yr. 8 mo.
               Parkhurst, John, d. Aug. 13, 1875, 76 yr. 6 mo. 20 da. (On Obenshain lot.)
               Pitcher, 
                     Benjamin, 1869-1932.
                     Fairy A., 1876-[—].
                  
               
               Privchett, Mary J., b. June 15, 1843, d. Dec. 11, 1900 [or 1907].
               Richardson, Fielden, 1840-1914.
               Richardson, Charles, b. May 10, 1848, d. Dec. 25, 1910, married to Sarah
                        Jane Smith, Feb. 16, 1870.
               Richardson, Hudson, (no information.)
               Richardson, Iva, (no information.)
               Richardson, Andrew J., 1834-1904.
               Richardson, Margaret, wife of Andrew J. Richarson, 1843-1933.
               Robards, John, "In memory of John Robards," d. Nov. 6,
                        1849, 77 yr. 7 mo. 28 da. (There is a new stone for John Robards with the
                        same information.)
               Robards, Albert, d. Sept. 13, 1855, 59 yr. 1 da.
               Robards, Nancy, wife of Albert Robards, d. April 18, 1877, 79 yr. 3 mo. 5
                        da.
               Robards, James, d. Oct. 8, 1878, 45 yr. 5 mo. 12 da.
               Roberts, Bert, d. Sept. 13, 1855, age 59 yr. 1 da.
               Roberts, George, son of J. M. and L. D. Roberts, d. Dec. 26, 1878, 5 mo.
                        26 da.
               Roberts, infant son of J. M. and L. D. Roberts, d. Aug. 13 [?],
                        1877.
               Roberts, 
                     James N., 1851-1936.
                     Elizabeth, 1854-1933 [?].
                  
               
               Roberts, John G., b. March 13, 1885 [?], d. Jan. 7, 1914.
               Roberts, John A., b. June 13, 1860, d. March 7, 1905.
               Roberts, Clara, wife of John A. Roberts, b. May 1, 1859, d. June 1, 1910.
               (Directly south of the graves of John A. and Clara Roberts are two rocks,
                        indicating graves. Near the graves of Roberts and Robards are two stones
                        marked "A. B." and "A. R.")
               Rogers, Sanford C., 1873-1950.
               Rogers, Malissa C., wife of Sanford C. Rogers, 1873-1951.
               
               Ross, (beginning at the north fence and runhing south are five like
                        stones, no doubt of the Ross family.) 
                     Charles, August [?], "De[parted]
                                [—] October."
                     Ross, Rachall, b. Oct. 29, 1794, d. Sept. 25, 1853.
                     Ross, Mary (illegible.)
                     (Fourth and fifth stones are illegible.)
                  
               
               Schultz, Thelma, b. Aug. 15, 1923 [?], d. June 15, 1940.
               Skinner, Nathaniel, 1822-1906.
               Skinner, son of J. N. and M. A. Skinner, 1860-1910. (Same stone as
                        Nathaniel Skinner.)
               Skinner, Matilda, wife of Nathaniel Skinner, 1827-1906.
               Smith, Nathan, "Father," b. Sept. 22, 1844, d. Dec. 31,
                        1924, 80 yr. 3 mo. 9 da.
               Smith, Sylvan Albert, son of Ocle and Eva Smith, b. May 9, 1907, d. Oct.
                        24, 1910.
               Smith, Lota I., 1889-1909.
               Smith, Arley G., 1855-1909.
               Smith, 
                     Rebecca Jane, wife of N. S. Smith, b. June 13, 1853, d. April 21,
                                1893, 39 yr. 10 mo. 8 da.
                     Lester, son of N. S. and R. J. Smith, b. Jan. 21, 1892, d. Jan.
                                24, 1893, 1 yr. 3 da.
                  
               
               Smith, [—] Mary, dau. of N. S. and J. S. Smith, d. April 22,
                        1889, 5 yr. 9 da
               Smith, Izella [?], dau. of N. S. and J. S. Smith, d. Aug. 31,
                        1873, 2 yr. 7 da.
               Smith, 
                            Milton
                        , son of M. and M. Smith, d. Feb. 28, 1868, 11 [?]
                        yr. [?] mo. [?] da.
               Smith, Arthur, son of M. and M. Smith, d. Nov. 6, 1842, 1 yr. 5 mo. 19 da.
               Smith, Jeremiah, son of M. and M. Smith, d. Nov. 14, 1847, 8 yr. 9 da.
               Smith, Jefferson, son of M. and M. Smith, d. Feb. 12 [?], 1840
                        [?], 6 yr. 10 da.
               Smith, Elizabeth, dau. of M. and M. Smith, d. July 19, 1852
                        [?], 1 yr. [?] mo. [?] da.
               (One stone is marked only "Smith.")
               Sparks, William, (no information.)
               Sparks, Elizabeth, (no information.)
               Sparkes, William, b. Jan., 1799, d. Aug. 5, 1871.
               Sparkes, Margaret A., dau. of A. and M. Sparkes, b. Jan. 5, 1868, d. Nov.
                        6, 1873.
               Stewart, William A., son of J. and M. Stewart, b. Jan. 8, 1860, d. Sept.
                        27, 1861.
               Stewart, Mahala, wife of B. Stewart, d. Aug. 31, 1844, 21 yr.
                        [?] mo. [?] da.
               Stewart, James J., d. Nov. 19, 1850.
               Stockton, G. A., 1891, (no further information.)
               Stuart, James, d. Sept. 11, 1849, 65 yr. 6 mo. [?] da.
               Street, Mary, wife of Enos Street, d. March 2, 1877, 77 yr. 6 mo. 29 da.
               Teter, Samuel, d. Sept. 22, 1830, 33 yr. 16 da.
               (One stone north, illegible.)
               Tharpe, Nannie L., b. April 23, 1863.
               
               Tharpe, Stephen D., b. March 5, 1863, d. May 25, 1913.
               Tharpe, Elizabeth, b. Dec. 21, 1831, d. Sept. 1905.
               Thomas, Robert, son of J. T. and S. [?] Leach Thomas, d. Oct.
                        10, 1883, 10 mo. 8 da.
               Trower, John, d. June 1, 1849, 31 yr. 2 mo. 16 da.
               Troxel, Eleanor, d. Jan. 3, 1841, 18 yr. 2 mo. 11 da.
               Vandergrift, David, d. Jan. 5, 1877, 31 yr. 5 mo. 27 da.
               (One stone is marked "J. V.")
               Vandergrifft, Elizabeth, d. Feb. 17, 1887, 45 yr. 6 mo. 3 da.
               Vandergrifft, Samuel, b. May 10, 1817, d. May 10, 1895.
               Vandergrifft, Polly, wife of Samuel Vandergrifft, b. June 22, 1818, d.
                        April 29, 1894.
               (There is one stone north of Polly Vandergrifft's without
                        markings.)
               Vandergrifft, John, d. Dec. 31, 1859, 16 yr.
               Varble, Rebeca, dau. of William [?] and [?] Varble,
                        d. March 1, 1856, 2 yr.
               Varble, Annetta, dau. of J. J. Varble, d. March [?], 1856
                        [?], 1 yr.
               Verhines, James L., 
                            Illinois
                        , B G L R 327 Inf. 82 Div., Jan., 1932.
               Walker, 
                     William, 1870-1938.
                     Cora, 1876-1961.
                     Evert, 1894-(living)
                  
               
               Walker, John, b. Jan. 31, 1830, d. April 30, 1907.
               Walker, 
                     
                        
                                    Granville
                                , June 9, 1835, March 4, 1930.
                     Ruhanah A., Nov. 11, 1851, March 15, 1924.
                  
               
               Walker, infant dau. of G. and R. Walker, d. April 22, 1890.
               Walker, 
                     Thomas, b. Nov. 20, 1841, d. Dec. 24, 1916.
                     Hanna, wife of Thomas Walker, b. Nov. 10, 1845, d. Sept. 14,
                            1917.
                  
               
               Walker, Daisy M., d. March 17, 1950, 73 yr. 3 mo. 22 da.
               Walker, Edward, 1880-1925.
               Walker, Squire A., 1871-1952.
               Wallace, John C., 1844-1916.
               Wallace, Mary E., wife of John C. Wallace, 1846-[—].
               Wallace, William, d. Jan. 15, 1869, 51 yr. 9 mo. 13 da.
               Ward, 
                     Andrew J., b. May 22, 1871.
                     Minnie, b. Feb. 7, 1883, d. May 21, 1926.
                  
               
               Watson, 
                     John, b. May 12, 1849.
                     Malinda, wife of John Watson, b. Jan. 15, 1853, d. March 22,
                            1902.
                  
               
               Weddle, Stephen, son of W. and Rachel Weddle, d. Aug. 18, 1866, 18 yr. 2
                        mo. 12 da.
               Weddle, Margaret J., dau. of S. W. and R. Weddle, d. March 7, 1877, 30 yr.
                        13 da.
               Weddle, Rachel, b. Nov. 16, 1809, d. Nov. 20, 1895.
               Weddle, Stephen W., d. May 5, 1890, 69 yr. 1 mo. 25 da.
               Whitaker, Matilda, wife of Charles H. Whitaker, d. Feb. 19, 1843, 26 yr. 8
                        mo. 6 da.
               
               Williams, Christena E., 1870-1912.
               Wiyatt, James H., d. Dec. 15, 1852, 5 yr. 19 da.
               Woolfington, 
                     John H., b. April 25, 1821, d. March 3, 1904.
                     Margaret, wife of John H. Woolfington, b. Aug. 20, 1837.
                  
               
               Yount, Jonathan A., b. May 3, 1829, d. April 28, 1894, 64 yr. 11 mo. 20
                        da.
               Yount, Eliza Jane, wife of J. A. Yount, d. April 5, 1876, [?]
                        yr. 9 mo. 21 da.
               Yount, Jonathan M., son of J. A. and J. Yount, d. Oct. 6, 1873, 6 mo. 24
                        da.
               Yount, Shelby T., son of Jonathan and Eliza Yount, b. Sept. 17, 1853, d.
                        Oct. 27, 1872, 20 yr. 1 mo. 10 da.
               Yount, Sarah, wife of George Yount, d. Dec. 13, 1881, 80 v. 5 mo. 26 da.
               Zimmerman, Nancy Anna, b. 1871, d. 1938.
               Zimmerman, N. Ann, 1871-1938 (another stone).
               Zimmerman, George, 1881-(living).
               Zody, Oliver D., son of J. O. and V. [?] Zody, d. Sept. 9,
                        1865, 4 mo. 12 da.
            
            Mrs. William Maxwell, a director of the 
                        Bethlehem
                     Church and Cemetery Association, has provided a list of persons who
                    are known to be buried in 
                        Bethlehem
                     Cemetery who do not have stones:
                  Tharp, 
                                Newton
                            
                  
                  Tharp, Martha, wife of 
                                Newton
                             Tharp
                  Tharp, Moses
                  Ratcliff, Charles, and two sons.
                  Rogers, [—], and his wife.
                  Ratcliff, James
                  Ratcliff, Martha, wife of James Ratcliff, and a daughter.
                  Sledge, William
                  Sledge, Verda, wife of William Sledge, and grandson James.
                  Eads, infant.
                  Demick, George
                  Wagerman, Otis
                  Zook, Eliza
                  Herbert, Marine L., and daughter.
                  Coleman, John
                  Coleman, Eva, wife of of John Coleman
                  Chapman, Charles
                  Chapman, May, wife of Charles Chapman
                  Budd, William, and two girls
                  Fraker, Edward
                  Fraker, Rachel
                  Jacobs, Paul, buried Dec. 22, 1951
                  Whitaker, Clementine, dau. of Charles and Matilda Whitaker, d. Aug.
                            15, 1852, 14 yr. 9 mo. 20 da.
               
                
         
      
   
