
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 57, Issue 1, pages 1-98. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:57+issue:1+year:1961&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Doktrin and Practis of William C. Talcott
            Leonard Swidler⋆
            
            
                    In memory of Wm. C. Talcott, who was born Dec. 25, 1815, and Died Dec. 30, 1902. He hoped
                        cooperative industry would prove a remedy for poverty. He was a spelling reformer since 1843 and
                        prepared this epitaph in scienced spelling in his life. He early seemed to see the church
                        theology to be mythology. The Jewish Bible teaches no immortal life….
                
            In the run-down city cemetery of 
                        Valparaiso
                    , Indiana, there stands a large tombstone on which is chiseled in phonetic characters a
                    long inscription beginning with the information quoted above in the standard alphabet. It is the
                    final message of William Cole Talcott, a reformer's reformer, who lived during a time
                    frothing with reform. During his long lifetime he espoused a number of the major and minor reforms
                    produced by nineteenth-century America. In religion he swung from a strict Calvinist position to
                    that of Universalism, and from Universalism to a sort of pantheistic humanism; he was a strong
                    advocate of temperance and vegetarianism; in politics he began as a Free-Soil Democrat and ended an
                    ardent Republican; his economic views were strongly socialistic, so much so that he even founded a
                    Fourieristic community. All these reforms, besides many others such as feminism, land reform,
                    judiciary reform, educational reform, and tax reform, he fostered in newspapers which he published
                    over a fifty-year span, at times printing them in his own phonetic characters, for he was a spelling
                    reformer too.
            William C. Talcott was born December 25, 1815, in 
                  Dalton, Berkshire County, Massachusetts
               .1 Little is known of his
                    parents; they were said to have been of 
                        Puritan
                     stock,2 and his father was born in 
                        England
                    .3 The family moved from Dalton to 
                  Madison, Lake County, Ohio
               , via ox wagon before William was a year
                    old. William's life was apparently that of 
                  
                     ⋆ Leonard Swidler is assistant professor in the Department
                            of History, Duquesne University, 
                        Pittsburgh,
                                    Pennsylvania
                     .
                  
                     1 Weston A. Goodspeed and Charles Blanchard (eds.), Counties of Porter and Lake, Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882), 274.
                  
                     2
                            
                        
                                    Porter County
                                 Vidette (
                                Valparaiso
                            ), January 1, 1903.
                  
                     3
                            
                                Porter County
                            , Ind., Office of the Auditor, 
                                Porter County
                             Death Record, Vol. 3, p. 32.
               
                     a typical farm boy in pioneer country until he was ten years
                        old.4 At this time he is said to have been thrown on his own resources and
                    worked on neighbors' farms.5 No more is known of his parents or
                    brothers or sisters except that in 1835 he "found his brother Ezra" in Union
                    Mills, Indiana. Young William attended the pioneer log school near his home from the time he was
                    five until he was ten.6 After that he attended rural schools at irregular
                    intervals, and at the age of seventeen he entered the Jefferson Academy at 
                  Jefferson, Ohio
               . A little later he was given a scholarship to Western Reserve College, at
                            
                  Hudson, Ohio
               , where he began studies preparatory to becoming a Presbyterian
                    minister. According to one source, by 1834 Talcott had resigned his scholarship and left college.7 He taught school in 
                  Madison,
                            Ohio
               , for a short while and then moved
                    to Joliet, 
                        Illinois
                    , only to leave there after three months to settle in northern Indiana, where he lived
                    the remainder of his long life. After teaching school and learning surveying in 
                        La Porte County
                    , Talcott moved to 
                        Porter County
                     in 1837, only a year after the county seat, 
                        Valparaiso
                    , had been founded. Here he was appointed by the state legislature to do some road
                    surveying and to select swamp lands in the northern half of the county for state property.8 The former county surveyor of 
                        Porter County
                    , now 
                        Valparaiso city
                     engineer, is a great-grandson of William C. Talcott, and he states that as surveyor he
                    occasionally ran across official notations in the hand of his great-grandfather.9
            
            At the age of fifteen Talcott had already begun to direct his studies toward preparation for the
                    Presbyterian ministry, and, as previously indicated, he later received a scholarship to Western
                    Reserve College for this purpose. But in the midst of his studies he found that he could no longer
                    maintain a belief in endless punishment for part of mankind, and he consequently resigned the
                        scholarship.10 He evidently soon turned toward the Universalist position
                    that all men are 
                  
                     4 Goodspeed and Blanchard, Counties of Porter and
                            Lake, 274.
                  
                     5
                            Vidette-Messenger (
                                Valparaiso
                            ), October 23, 1934. This is one of a series of articles, entitled
                            "Ramblings," on the early history of the area by Arthur J. Bowser, who was
                            an elderly free-lance writer and had apparently known Talcott.
                  
                     6
                            
                        
                                    Porter County
                                 Vidette (
                                Valparaiso
                            ), January 1, 1903.
                  
                     7
                            Vidette-Messenger (
                                Valparaiso
                            ), October 23, 1934. A letter from C. D. Russell, vice-president of Western
                            Reserve University, to the author, October 14, 1957, however, states that
                            "examination of University records fails to disclose any information whatsoever
                            that this person ever attended Western Reserve College."
                  
                     8
                            
                        
                                    Porter County
                                 Vidette (
                                Valparaiso
                            ), January 1, 1903.
                  
                     9 Interview with William E. Morthland, September 30, 1957.
                  
                     10
                            Vidette-Messenger (
                                Valparaiso
                            ), October 23, 1934.
               
                     saved, for, after having preached in northern Indiana since 1837,
                    William Talcott was ordained a Universalist minister at 
                        Valparaiso
                     in 1840. He is said to have labored in this field for about ten years,11 and then he broke completely with Christian theology and made the Golden Rule the sole
                    basis of his philosophy of life. Talcott alludes to this break in his own funeral discourse, which
                    he wrote four years before his death.
            
                    In early life he really supposed, as he was taught, That Nature was a plan ov powr designd and
                        caused by tho't; That some way unaccountable temptation came and sin, And mankind lost
                        the holy happy nature they were in; That God was angry with them and so bitterly displeased, By
                        nothing but his Son's death cud his anger be appeased; That, loving us, he gave his son
                        to die for our salvation, And, missing this, we suffer endless torment in damnation.
                    These terrible ideas he in riper years outgrew And since has entertained a far more optimistic
                        view. He seemd to lern discretion and gain cheerfulness therewith By seeing that the
                        "hell and hevn theology" was myth. So now he deems it duty and a privilege to
                        giv Some lessons that have made his life a happy one to liv.12
               
                
            He developed a view of the cosmos that was a type of dynamic materialism, according to which ultimate
                    reality consisted of "force." Ideas such as life after death and the reality of
                    the spiritual were deleted from his philosophy. Talcott reflected the humanitarianism of his age
                    when he insisted in his funeral discourse that: 
                        So then the highest excellence that we can know or see Must in our own imperfect race ov
                            mankind prove to be.
                    
            
            But he would not allow himself to be tagged with the epithet "atheist": 
                        Such realistic statement is no atheistic creed, But pantheistic—all
                            Divine—the writer must concede; Divine though in a sense entirely outside ov
                            mythology, Consisting but with natural and practical Theology.
                    
            
            William C. Talcott, however, did not let his humanitarianism reside merely in ideas. He early decided
                    to translate ideas into action in a way that was typical of the time. In 
                  
                     11
                            
                        
                                    Porter County
                                 Vidette (
                                Valparaiso
                            ), January 1, 1903. For a list of Universalist ministers in Indiana in which the
                            following appears: "TALCOTT, W. C. 
                                Michigan
                             City 1844," see Elmo Arnold Robinson, "Universalism in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XIII (June, 1917), 185.
                  
                     12 A copy of this discourse is in the 
                                Valparaiso
                             Public Library. It is entitled Live-Man's Funeral
                                Discourse (n.p., n.d.); its text indicates that it was written at 
                                Valparaiso
                             in 1898.
               
                     the winter of 1844–1845 he organized about fifty
                    people into a socialistic industrial association of the Fourieristic type. The colony was located
                    about two miles from 
                        South Bend
                    , Indiana, on the land of William McCartney, who was made the first president of the "
                        Philadelphia
                     Industrial Association," as the colony was called. Though Talcott was prime
                    mover of the project, he was given the title of secretary. The association was a joint stock
                    corporation to which each member contributed as much money as he had, although those who lacked
                    money were admitted for the labor they would perform.13 Although the association
                    started with only fifty persons, there were over a hundred connected with it during its brief
                    existence—never more than seventy-five at once, however. Oddly enough, the members were
                    largely New Englanders who had migrated first to 
                        Ohio
                     and then to Indiana just as Talcott had.14
            
            McCartney agreed to sell the association his farm along the river north of 
                        South Bend
                     for $5,000, which was to be paid in twelve years. Of the money collected
                    from the members, some was paid on the farm, and the rest was used to build a seventy-five-foot-long
                    common dining hall, a kitchen, a storeroom, and fifteen dwellings, and to buy farming implements and
                        horses.16
            
            In the spring of 1845 ten acres were cleared and seed was sown. From the beginning there apparently
                    were those who did not do their share of work while doing their share of eating. Such shirking, of
                    course, brought complaints from the women who were doing the cooking, and it was not long before
                    people began dropping out. Nevertheless with the approach of winter the membership of the community
                    was increased by an influx of new members. One member, Ephraim O. Trueblood, was quoted as
                    complaining that the work was too hard for his women, that there was too much looseness in the
                    relations of some of the families, and that the community was not a good place to bring up
                    one's family. Therefore, he and his family decided to leave in 1846.16
            
            
               
                  13
                        Tribune (
                            South Bend
                        , Ind.), June 22, 1930. This is an article by Henry A. Pershing for which he
                        obtained at least some information from an eyewitness and some from a person who heard reports
                        from another eyewitness. The eyewitness was a Mrs. John Heath, then aged 90, who had visited the
                        buildings of the community as a little girl. See also T.[imothy] G.[ilman] Turner, Gazetteer of the St. Joseph Valley, 
                                Michigan
                            , and Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1867), 48–49; Richard L. Kilmer, "
                            South Bend
                        , 1820–1851: The Founding of the Early Community" (unpublished
                        Master's thesis, Notre Dame University, 1947), 110.
               
                  14
                        Turner, Gazetteer of the St. Joseph Valley, 
                                Michigan
                            , and Indiana, 48.
               
                  15
                        Tribune (
                            South Bend
                        ), June 22, 1930.
               
                        16
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            The Trueblood family's departure was undoubtedly not a unique incident since the whole
                    community seems to have dissolved by late 1846 or early 1847. About 1867 Talcott gave his view of
                    the reasons for the project's collapse: 
                        "The main cause of … dissolution, I have ever believed, was that Mr.
                            McCartney violated his promise to invest his whole tract of land; and after we were fully
                            organized and on the ground ready to receive the title and use the land, he withheld all of
                            the valuable and available portion, and turned us off with the broken, marshy land, lying
                            between the road and the river, at twenty dollars per acre, the appraised price of the
                            entire tract."17.
                    Timothy Turner, who apparently received the foregoing opinion in a letter from Talcott, goes
                    on to say: 
                        The cause of the failure, "in a nutshell," was probably this: McCartney,
                            with his natural shrewdness, if that is the proper term, encouraged and co-operated with the
                            association for the purpose of getting his land cleared up and improved for nothing. He
                            succeeded, but the association did not.18
                  
                    
            
            After the community's collapse Talcott left for 
                        Valparaiso
                     with his personal belongings, leaving some of the members with the opinion that he was
                    "too liberal in the construction of what was his personal property."19 Despite the failure of the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Industrial Association, Talcott's cooperative ideals did not die with it. In a
                    book written toward the end of his life, he espoused these same ideals, extending them far beyond
                    the level of a single community: 
                        The postal orders sent, as well as public moneys lent, Exhibit public functions that admit of
                            more extent; Shop business can't be done unless by public rule it's run,
                            And this in case of strikes and boycotts is in fact begun.
                        At last land cultivation will adopt cooperation, Each township as a farm and as a unit of the
                            nation; Avoiding by fruition of beneficent condition, Oppression by monopoly and waste by
                            competition.
                        When township corporation has a full cooperation, And all its people live at its convenient
                            central station, The best will be achieved that can be hopefully conceived, And life of much
                            that's ill by much that's pleasant be relieved.20
                  
                    
            
            Prior to the cooperative community experiment, Talcott had bought an office in 
                        Valparaiso
                     with the intention of 
                  
                     17 Turner, Gazetteer of the St. Joseph
                                Valley, 
                                    Michigan
                                , and Indiana, 48–49.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., 49.
                  
                     19
                            Tribune (
                                South Bend
                            ), June 22, 1930.
                  
                     20 William Cole Talcott, Doktrin and Practis (
                                Valparaiso
                            , Ind., 1889), 72–73. This volume is written in Talcott's
                            phonetic alphabet, but this and the following quotations from it have been transcribed into
                            the standard alphabet. For a photographic reproduction of a
               
                     publishing a newspaper. He apparently changed his mind, though,
                    for he leased the office that same year to James Castle, who had purchased a small press from Solon
                    Robinson, of 
                        Lake County
                    . Castle then began publication of the first newspaper in 
                        Valparaiso
                    , a small six-by-twelve-inch folio sheet that came out
                    "semi-occasionally" and was called the Republican. Talcott later
                    sold the office to William M. Harrison, seemingly in preparation to go to 
                        South Bend
                     to start the industrial community. Harrison started a paper called the Western Ranger, in which Talcott bought a half interest upon his return to 
                        Valparaiso
                     when the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Industrial Association ceased to exist. The new series under the joint editorship began
                    April 24, 1847, and by this time the paper had grown to a five-column folio weekly. Although Talcott
                    and Harrison differed on some political and social questions, they got along pleasantly in the
                    beginning, and the paper prospered financially, as its growth in size during 1847 and 1848
                        attests.21
            
            The initial harmony between the owners of the Western Ranger was not to be lasting,
                    however. From the beginning Talcott and Harrison signed their initials to articles they wrote or
                    edited. As time passed, there were even articles by one editor stating that he had nothing to do
                    with an article written by the other editor in the same issue.22 The result of
                    this growing difference was that in June, 1849, Talcott bought out his partner and on July 25, 1849,
                    changed the name of the paper to the Practical Observer. His newspaper business
                    flourished so well during the next few years that in January, 1853, Talcott began to issue a
                    triweekly besides the regular weekly. In September of that same year, he started publication of the
                    first daily in 
                        Porter County
                    , while continuing the weekly and for two months the triweekly, which was then replaced
                    by a semiweekly. All these publications bore the same name, Practical Observer.
                    Actually the weekly consisted 
                  sample page from Doktrin and Practis, see p. 11. A copy of Doktrin and Practis is at the 
                                Valparaiso
                             Public Library. The author is indebted to the librarian, Gordon H. Bebeau, for
                            his assistance in the research on Talcott, for the loan of Doktrin and
                            Practis, and for permission to reproduce a sample page from that book. It is
                            interesting to note that although Talcott maintained that his phonetic alphabet used only
                            one symbol for each sound, on the title page of his book the title is given as Doktrin and Practis, a spelling in which both a k and a c are used for the same sound. On the cover of the volume and in the
                            heading at the top of each page the title is spelled Doktrin and Praktis,
                            which is consistent with Talcott's claims for his alphabet. In accordance with
                            standard procedure, however, the spelling given on the title page of Talcott's book
                            has been followed throughout this article.
                  
                     21
                            
                        
                                    Porter County
                                 Vidette (
                                Valparaiso
                            ), January 1, 1903.
                  
                     22
                            Western Ranger (
                                Valparaiso
                            ), January 10 and 24, 1849.
               
                     of the six previous issues of the daily; the triweekly was
                    composed of two issues of the daily; and the semiweekly was made up of three daily issues.23 In the January, 1854, editions of the Practical Observer
                    Talcott claimed that his paper (possibly he was considering all editions together) was the largest
                    in Indiana and that it was the largest in the world published in so small a town. He also claimed
                    that the semi-weekly was the only such paper published in so small a town, in so sparse a country,
                    and at so low a price. Near the close of 1853 the subscription price was $5 for the daily
                    and $1 each for the semiweekly and weekly.24
            
            Talcott continued the Practical Observer until, having been elected common pleas
                    judge in the fall of 1856, he sold the entire office to Dr. R. A. Cameron in April, 1857. But Judge
                    Talcott was not able to leave the newspaper business so easily. In July, 1858, his son Henry became
                    an associate editor of the paper, which was by then called the Republican; later
                    that year Henry inveigled his father to lend his experience as a veteran newspaperman and become a
                    joint editor and proprietor. This arrangement lasted until the next March when the paper was resold
                    to Dr. Cameron. In 1874 Judge Talcott again bought the paper, which he renamed the Vidette. Except for thirteen months during 1879 and 1880, he continued in partnership with
                    his son Charles, who had secured a half interest in December, 1874,25 until 1888
                    when they sold the paper. Although he was in his seventies, William Talcott was unable to make a
                    final break with newspaper publishing, for in 1890 he rebought interest in the Vidette, which he maintained until 1894 when he sold out his newspaper interest for the last
                        time.28
            
            Throughout his long career as a publisher, Talcott used his papers as a pulpit from which to preach
                    reforms of every sort. But of the changes he advocated, one of the most outstanding—in
                    every sense of the term—was a reform of spelling. In an editorial in the Western Ranger on June 23, 1847, Judge Talcott reminded his readers that he had published
                    several articles in the Ranger in 1843 on the subject of orthography in which he
                    had proposed the formation of a complete alphabet for the spelling of all words by a scientific
                        
                  
                     23 Powell A. Moore, "The Newspaper Press of the Calumet
                            Region, 1836–1933," Indiana Magazine of History, LII
                            (June, 1956), 111–112; Goodspeed and Blanchard, Counties of Porter
                                and Lake, 67.
                  
                     24 These prices were run in the November and December, 1853, issues of
                            all editions of the Practical Observer.
                  
                  
                     25 Goodspeed and Blanchard, Counties of Porter and
                            Lake, 69–70.
                  
                     26
                            
                        
                                    Porter County
                                 Vidette (
                                Valparaiso
                            ), January 1, 1903.
               
                     method. He had, furthermore, constructed such an alphabet by
                    arranging roman and italic letters so that there should be one, and only one, letter for each
                    distinct sound in the language. Moreover, he had also given examples of the application of his
                    proposed alphabet in spelling various words. Talcott went on to point out to his readers that in
                    1843 he had also mentioned the invention of a similar system in 
                        England
                    . He explained that while the English system advanced a new, simple, and complete
                    alphabet for writing, it appeared the adoption of the system in print had not been thought of.
                    Talcott exulted in informing his readers that the very same system presented in the Ranger
               27—with some variations in characters
                    used—had been introduced in 
                        England
                    , and more recently in America; that its use had been adopted by several popular
                    publications in the East;28 and that it was 
                        highly recommended and strenuously urged by every person in the world that had become
                            acquainted with its nature. For one that is fully conscious of the importance of this
                            reformation, and its prospect of success, to withhold his voice, pen or influence from
                            "giving aid and comfort" to its advocates, would be not only quite
                            unpardonable, but utterly impossible.29
                  
                    Talcott boasted that his paper was the first in the world to give rules and specimens of
                    phonotypy and that in the future it would contain articles explaining and illustrating the subject.
            In the Western Ranger's issue of June 23, 1847, Judge Talcott also gave
                    his principles of phonotypy—principles of writing and printing reform. First, all words
                    were to be spelled precisely as they were pronounced and pronounced precisely as they were spelled,
                    so that one might know by the pronunciation of a word how to spell it and by the spelling how to
                    pronounce it. Secondly, in order to make phonetic spelling possible, each sound in the language was
                    to be uniformly represented by a distinctive letter, which was never to stand for any other sound.
                    Thirdly, Talcott maintained that since the English alphabet had too few letters and since these
                    letters were irregularly applied, it was inadequate for phonetic purposes and should be transformed
                    into a genuinely phonetic alphabet—which Talcott then proceeded to give. 
                  
                     27 Talcott speaks as if the Western Ranger were
                            founded in 1843, whereas it was actually founded in 1844. He may possibly be referring to
                            the Republican, which was started in 1843. Unfortunately, nothing before
                            1845 in either of the papers seems to be extant.
                  
                     28 The first issue of the Anglo-Sacsun, a newspaper
                            printed entirely in a phonetic type, came out in 
                                Boston
                             in 1847.
                  
                     29
                            Western Ranger (
                                Valparaiso
                            ), June 23, 1847.
               
                     This phonetic alphabet is apparently the earliest of
                    Talcott's several extant alphabets and has forty characters, including all the standard
                    characters of the English alphabet with the exception of k, q, and x. Talcott added characters for eleven additional vowel sounds by using standard vowels with
                    diacritical marks, plus the "oo" sound printed as a double u—really an inverted m; the six additional sounds are represented
                    by roman or italic type and by homemade characters apparently formed by modifying standard type. For
                    example, the voiced "th" sound is represented by a lower case d
                    with the back of its circular part cut away and looks something like an inverted question mark
                    without the dot. A number of these characters are obviously makeshift, and when he presented them
                    Talcott explained that he was expecting newly cut type very soon.
            Although it would require another study to determine whether Talcott's phonotypy was indeed
                    a "first" as he claimed, it is evident that his was one of the early systems. He
                    did much original work and was notable among advocates of phonetic spelling in that he spread
                    principles of phonetic usage so early and so deep in the American frontier.30
                    Talcott utilized every means and opportunity to further this reform, making use of articles he
                    published in 1843 and the Spirit of Reform, the first newspaper he personally
                    published. The Spirit of Reform was published in connection with his 
                        Philadelphia
                     Industrial Community. A prospectus for the Spirit of Reform in the
                        
                  St. Joseph Valley Register stated that the forthcoming
                    paper would advocate the plan of industrial association as well as the principles of
                    "phonography, a science which reduces spelling to a simple rule by which a person may
                    become a perfect master of the art in a few hours, and a good reader in a few days." The
                    paper was a monthly which ran only a few issues, however, and no copies seem to be extant. In the
                    papers published in 
                        Valparaiso
                    , Judge Talcott often ran columns of varying lengths in phonetic characters; he printed
                    anecdotes, news items, letters written to him in phonetic script, or editorials. At times he
                    included a key to the phonetic type, but very often not; he would even run poems and full columns on
                    the front page or stray lines stuck in here and there in phonetic type. In the 
                  
                     30 According to Association of Research Libraries, A
                                Catalog of Books Represented by Library of Congress Printed Cards Issued to July 31,
                                1942 (167 vols., 
                                Ann Arbor
                            , Mich., 1942–1946), Vol. 118, p. 371, the first American edition of
                            an instruction book on Pitman shorthand was published in 
                                New York
                             by J. Donlevy in 1844. There had been several previous English editions.
               
                     last few years of his newspaper career, 1890–1894, he
                    published a daily edition, most of which was printed in this type. At the same time a very large
                    portion of the paper was devoted to arguments on behalf of reforms of every nature. At this time he
                    also published several books on reform in his phonetic type, at least one of which is written in
                    rhyming iambic heptameter. Besides all these publications in phonetic characters—and
                    Talcott experimented much over the years—he printed every piece of news he could find on
                    spelling reform anywhere in the English-speaking world and periodically editorialized on the
                        subject.81
            
            Talcott used two main arguments for the employment of a phonetic system. First, he contended that a
                    phonetic alphabet would save every child at least two school years which were ordinarily spent in
                    learning how to spell, and then only poorly. Secondly, Talcott believed the system would save
                    Americans at least $3,000,000 daily since a phonetic alphabet demanded less printed space
                    for a given number of words than did the ordinary longer forms. Therefore, great sums would be saved
                    by reducing the time needed to read material now containing many unnecessary letters—to
                    say nothing of savings in school expenditures by eliminating the two unnecessary years of spelling
                    study. Talcott very neatly summarized these arguments in some phonetic verses, which are here
                    reproduced in regular type.
            
                    The saving is not vain, for two whole years are no small gain, While present teaching tends to
                        make one partially insane;
                    For saving to each child one hundred dollars is not wild, It is indeed an estimate considered
                        very mild; The saving then that follows for ten million English scholars, Makes every year a
                        saving of one thousand million dollars.
                    The gains however swell, for after learning how to spell, One-fifth of future literary cost is
                        saved as well; For each mute is a laut which will hereafter be left out, At saving of one-fifth
                        of all expenses thereabout.32
               
                
            
               
                  31 For the prospectus for the Spirit of Reform, see 
                     St. Joseph Valley Register (
                            South Bend
                        , Ind.), February 6, 1846. Talcott began his practice of printing some newspaper
                        items in phonetic type in 1847 in the Western Ranger. As for
                        Talcott's books, only Doktrin and Practis (see note 20) has been
                        located. In one of a series of articles entitled "Ramblings," Arthur J. Bowser
                        (see note 5) mentions a volume called General Welfare Possible, in which
                        Talcott made suggestions for the promotion of human welfare. Vidette-Messenger (
                            Valparaiso
                        ), November 8, 1934. What other books Talcott wrote is not known, although his
                        great-grandson recalls that he wrote a "number of books… in phonetic
                        spelling." Letter from William E. Morthland, 
                            Valparaiso
                        , Ind., to the author, September 26, 1960.
               
                  32 Talcott, Doktrin and Practis, 70. The page of Doktrin and Practis on which this quotation appears has been photographically
                        reproduced on the next page.
            
            
            
               Sample Page (actual size) from Talcott's Doktrin and Practis
               
            
            
            Although Talcott devoted much effort to publicizing phonetic spelling, perhaps the field in which his
                    newspapers were most effective was that of politics, especially during the 1840's and
                    1850's. It was not until after about 1846 that the members of the Democratic party took a
                    very decided lead in obtaining county offices in 
                        Porter County
                    . According to one source, this swing was due in major part to the influence of the Western Ranger and its successor, the Practical Observer.
               33 As the slavery issue grew in importance, Talcott became an increasingly
                    ardent supporter of Free-Soilism. Though he early thought slavery could be contained through the
                    medium of the Democratic party, after the repeal of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise in 1854, he found himself standing practically in the camp of the emerging
                    Republican party. He then turned his and his paper's allegiance to the Republican party,
                    and "through the influence brought to bear by the Observer upon the
                    citizens, the new party immediately went to the front, and has since had control of the official
                    patronage of the county."84 While it is true that factors other than
                    Talcott's stand undoubtedly influenced the political complexion of 
                        Porter County
                    , it is interesting to notice that in the presidential election of 1856 
                        Porter County
                     voted 1,054 for the Republican candidate and 712 for the Democratic one, whereas in the
                    previous election the Whigs polled 236 and the Democrats 257.35 One writer later
                    remarked: "Owing to the prominent part so bravely borne by Judge Talcott during the
                    organization period of the Republican party he may well be called the father of the party in 
                        Porter county
                    ."86
            
            Judge Talcott utilized his newspapers and books to advocate a variety of political reforms. For
                    example, he believed that candidates for office should indicate the lowest salary they would accept,
                    thus doing away with the spoils system. 
                        Do office-spoils away by competition on the pay, Requiring every candidate his lowest terms
                            to state; So voters at election may consider in connection One's fitness for the
                            service and his compensation rate.37
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     33 Goodspeed and Blanchard, Counties of Porter and
                            Lake, 71–72.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid. See also 
                        
                                    Porter County
                                 Vidette (
                                Valparaiso
                            ), January 1, 1903.
                  
                     35
                            History of 
                                    Porter County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1912), I, 353.
                  
                     36
                            Vidette-Messenger (
                                Valparaiso
                            ), November 8, 1934. This is another "Ramblings" article by
                            Arthur J. Bowser; see note 5. See also 
                        
                                    Porter County
                                 Vidette (
                                Valparaiso
                            ), January 1, 1903.
                  
                     37 Talcott, Doktrin and Practis, 55.
               
                     Talcott also believed that all the states should be consolidated
                    into one nation with all laws similarly applied in every place but by means of local law
                    enforcement, thereby eliminating local legislation and saving much expense. He thought the
                    legislature should have but one house—two houses merely added confusion and cost.
            
                    A meeting, to succeed, should have no other one to heed; A second house is but too oft a body to
                        resist; A senate best accords with the British house of lords; And single bodies better with
                        efficiency consist.
                    The reason one must state—that office pay is far too great, And office-seekers and the
                        friends whose minds they educate, Consider it desirable and so of course requirable That number
                        of such offices by no means should abate.88
               
                
            William C. Talcott had quite a varied career as a jurist—fifteen years
                    altogether—and from this experience he also evolved some definite ideas of reform. In
                    1840 Talcott was elected a justice of the peace; he was appointed probate judge in 1849 and elected
                    to the same office in 1850. He resigned in 1852 to accept the Democratic nomination for assemblyman,
                    but was defeated because of his strong antislavery and temperance position. In 1856 he was elected
                    common pleas judge and was later re-elected to this office for two more terms, twelve years in all.
                    Talcott practiced law for six years after his last term in office.39
            
            Judge Talcott would have eliminated a number of legal practices he considered superfluous, such as
                    judicial oaths and grand juries, which he regarded as merely a waste of time and an added expense.
                    He also insisted that a majority decision of a jury should be sufficient to decide a case, for
                    unanimity was, he felt, as unnecessary here as in any other democratic process.
            
                    Some centuries ago, as people versed in history know, The convicts of a petty crime were
                        frequently beheaded; And law was hence made tender that not less than all should render A
                        verdict for a penalty thus naturally dreaded.
                    
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., 57.
                  
                     39 Goodspeed and Blanchard, Counties of Porter and
                            Lake, 274.
               
                    
                    Few questions now in court are of a life-and-death import, And these few are not final, hence in
                        modern times the ground That all twelve must agree in order that their verdict be A valid one,
                        can be in common sense no longer sound.40
               
                
            Besides advocating a number of court reforms, Judge Talcott favored several then radical changes in
                    criminal law. He believed that the list of acts considered crimes should be shortened, excluding all
                    acts not injurious to others. He would have abolished vindictive penalties, making all punishment
                    either reformatory or restraining in purpose. So he wrote in his Doktrin and Practis,
                    
                        A theft was wrong before, and statute makes it so no more, But even fails in the enforcement
                            of due reparation; And acts that no one wrong, condemned by force however strong, Are rights
                            that should be waived, avoiding unjust condemnation.
                        Prohibit execution of vindictive retribution, As violating every righteous human
                            constitution; It brings no restoration or such other compensation, And highest human
                            sentiment forbids such expiation.
                        For their subordination and their hopeful reformation, Take safeguard of the dangerous, with
                            proper education; This number must contain all who are vicious and insane, And treatment
                            should correct their bent and quietly restrain.41
                  
                    
            
            In the area of civil rights Judge Talcott worked not only for the freedom of Negroes but also very
                    earnestly for women's rights. He thought that divorce was something that should be used
                    when necessary and that no stigma should be attached to it. He himself, however, lived with his
                    first wife over sixty years until her death. His thoughts about the rights of women as human beings
                    and their right to the vote is best summed up in the following stanzas: 
                        Mohammedan monocracy, the ancient Jew theocracy, And Mormon aristocracy agree in this idea:
                            That man may marry many, or, if he prefer, not any, But woman to a single husband loyal must
                            appear.
                        
                     
                        40 Talcott, Doktrin and Practis,
                                66–67.
                     
                        41
                                Ibid., 58–59.
                  
                        
                        The rule of equal right is thus entirely lost from sight. Or they would give the woman equal
                            privilege with man; Whatever right indeed we may to either one concede, The same right has
                            belonged to each since sense of right began.
                        But gentle women never can succeed in an endeavor To graduate from present state of practical
                            subjection, Until their equal right be treated as an equal might By making them full voters
                            at a general election.42
                  
                    
            
            Judge Talcott also had very definite ideas about education, which he would improve by introducing not
                    only his method of spelling, but also a more utilitarian approach toward learning. His approach
                    would have instituted a work-as-you-learn program and an arrangement similar to the 
                        Lancaster
                     system, whereby the older, brighter students would assist in the teaching of the
                    younger ones.43
            
            From early in his career onward, Talcott was a strong defender of the temperance movement, supporting
                    it in his newspapers and other writings. His position, however, was not so rigid as that of some
                    members of the movement. He did not believe the sale of liquor should be completely prohibited but
                    that allowance should be made for its medicinal and sacramental uses. As for punishment for the
                    misuse of alcohol, Talcott believed the courts ought to make a decision giving both buyer and seller
                    their just due.44 Abstinence from liquor was not the only aspect of temperance
                    Judge Talcott practiced, for he would eat no meat. For one two-week period he subsisted on nothing
                    but squash grown in his own back yard, insisting he had no desire for anything more.45 Apparently his diet did not adversely affect his health, which was excellent until his
                    death of cerebral apoplexy in 1902 at the age of eighty-seven.46
            
            William C. Talcott was one of those rare men who managed to combine thought and action, both in
                    sizable quantities. His activities were amazingly varied, ranging 
                  
                     42
                            Ibid., 62–63.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., 70–72.
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., 60.
                  
                     45
                            
                        
                                    Porter County
                                 Vidette (
                                Valparaiso
                            ), January 1, 1903.
                  
                     46
                            Ibid.;
                            
                                Porter County
                            , Ind., Office of the Auditor, 
                                Porter County
                             Death Record, Vol. 3, p. 32.
               
                     from surveying and organizing a cooperative community through
                    practicing law, from serving in judicial positions and running for political office to teaching
                    school, and from serving ten years as a minister to owning and editing several newspapers. Though he
                    was considered eccentric, though part of his energies were fruitlessly expended, Talcott always
                    vigorously tried to apply the yardstick of reason to all his thought and to his efforts toward the
                    realization of his ideas in the society around him. If one word could sum up his character and life,
                    that word would be "reformer," for almost every facet of his life reflects a
                    different reform movement of his time. Apparently of all his activities only surveying, already a
                    mathematical discipline, escaped the rationalist fever of reform. His cooperative community was an
                    experiment in social reform. He wished to revise the legal system and the penal code and to revamp
                    political institutions. He had progressive views on teaching school, and in the matter of religion
                    he himself went through a long series of personal readjustments and reforms. And throughout his life
                    his newspapers were the most important vehicles for spreading his ideas on reform.
         
         
         
            Notes on Goodrich and Turtle's: An Illustrated History of the State of
                        Indiana
            
            William M. Hepburn⋆
            
            In the course of some investigation into the early life of John Purdue, benefactor of Purdue
                    University after whom the university was named, the writer examined a copy of an early history of
                    Indiana which soon raised interesting questions. The volume was entitled An Illustrated
                        History of the State of Indiana and carried the names of DeWitt C. Goodrich and Charles R.
                    Tuttle as authors. The volume also indicated that it had been published by Richard S. Peale at 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1875. This book was of particular interest because it contained a biographical
                    sketch of John Purdue which related details of his life prior to the time he settled in 
                        Lafayette
                     in 1839. Only brief mention was made of his business careers in 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Lafayette
                     and of his important role in the founding of Purdue University. It seemed logical to
                    conclude that the information regarding Mr. Purdue's early life had probably been obtained
                    from him, for the writer became convinced that this was the first time such biographical data had
                    appeared in print. The author was, therefore, curious to learn how and by whom this data had been
                    obtained.
            
               An Illustrated History of the State of Indiana itself provided a partial answer to
                    these questions. In speaking of Purdue University its chapter on 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     made the following statement: 
                        Hon. John Purdue, of La 
                                Fayette
                            , has the honor, not only of founding this college, but of securing its location
                            at La 
                                Fayette
                            . He has already donated two hundred thousand dollars to it, in the way of money
                            and land, and there is a probability that he will increase this amount before his death to
                            five hundred thousand dollars. The writer, when in 
                                Tippecanoe county
                            , called on Mr. Purdue, at his private rooms in the Lahr House, and was
                            handsomely entertained. Mr. Purdue is a genial, kind-hearted old bachelor, having never
                            married. He is ripe in 
                        
                           ⋆ William Murray Hepburn was librarian of Purdue
                                    University from 1904 to 1944. As coauthor with Louis Martin Sears, he wrote Purdue University: Fifty Years of Progress (
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , 1925). Since 1944 Mr. Hepburn has been librarian emeritus of Purdue
                                    University. He now lives at 816 College Avenue, 
                                        Richmond
                                    , Indiana. This article is an outgrowth of his continued interest in and
                                    study of John Purdue.
                     
                             years, sound in intellect, fully conversant with the
                            affairs of the world, and very pleasant in conversation.1
                  
                    Presumably one of the authors of An Illustrated History had obtained the
                    biographical information about Mr. Purdue. This information has been used, often verbatim and
                    without credit, by later writers. Moreover, it remains the principal source of information about
                    John Purdue's life during the years before he came to Indiana.
            The search for information regarding the writing and publication of An Illustrated
                        History of the State of Indiana soon raised further questions. There was the question of
                    the date of the book's first publication—was it 1874, the date of copyright, or
                    was it 1875, the date indicated in the earliest editions usually found in libraries. This problem
                    could be quickly resolved by writing to the 
                        United States
                     Copyright Office, which was subsequently done. Meanwhile, two copies of the history
                    were located, each having a publication date of 1875 and with identical title pages, but with
                    differences that stamped one as an earlier edition than the other. One copy was found in the Earlham
                    College Library, 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, and the other in the Morrison-Reeves Library, the public library at 
                        Richmond
                    . Although both had identical title pages, the Earlham copy was considerably thicker
                    than the Morrison-Reeves copy. Closer examination indicated that different paper had been used in
                    the printing of the books, which accounted for the difference in thickness. This discovery did not
                    in itself prove that the two copies belonged to different editions, but further examination of them
                    revealed more significant differences than merely that of the paper on which they had been printed.
                    These differences were: (1) the claim of one of the copies to be the "second
                    edition"; (2) a glaring typographical error in one which did not appear in the other; (3) a
                    difference in the dates given for the publishers' prefaces; and (4) important variations in
                    the texts of the prefaces. Other differences may exist in these two copies; no effort was made,
                    however, to make a collation of their texts.
            A careful examination of the prefaces made it apparent that the Morrison-Reeves copy was earlier than
                    the Earlham 
                  
                     1 DeWitt C. Goodrich and Charles R. Tuttle, An
                                Illustrated History of the State of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1875), 392–393. The quotation is taken from the "second
                            edition." For the biographical sketch on John Purdue, see ibid.,
                            677–678.
               
                     copy. The publisher's preface was dated December, 1874,
                    in the Morrison-Reeves copy, and May 15, 1875, in that of the Earlham Library. A typographical error
                    ("stel") on page 624 of the Morrison-Reeves copy had been corrected to read
                    "life's" on the same page of the Earlham copy. Only the Earlham copy
                    claimed to be the "second edition." The preface to the Morrison-Reeves volume
                    praised the text to follow; the preface to the Earlham copy contained much less self-praise and was
                    even apologetic in tone, a fact suggesting that perhaps an earlier edition had met unfavorable
                    criticism. From this combination of evidence it seemed reasonable to conclude that there had been
                    two editions—or at least two printings—of An Illustrated History
                        of the State of Indiana in 1875 despite the fact that the title pages of both Earlham and
                    Morrison-Reeves copies were identical.
            Both copies gave 1874 as copyright date. Correspondence subsequently indicated that copies of the
                    history, necessary to complete requirements for copyright, had been received by the 
                        United States
                     Copyright Office on May 21, 1875.2 The copyright date of 1874 is
                    doubtless explained by the fact that prior to 1909 it was possible to file a claim for copyright of
                    a book by registering its title as soon as it had been projected, which might be months or even
                    years in advance of its publication.3
            
            Two additional editions of An Illustrated History of the State of Indiana
                    subsequently appeared. An edition was published in 1876 which claimed to be the "second
                    edition." This 1876 edition appeared to be identical in content with the previous one, but
                    it had a new publisher, J. W. Lanktree & Company, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Three years later another edition appeared which was called the third edition, though
                    it was properly the fourth and apparently final one. In this 1879 edition the names of Goodrich and
                    Tuttle did not appear on the title page as they had in the three previous ones. Their names were
                    replaced by that of "Hon. W. S. Haymond," who was identified as editor and
                    reviser. S. L. Marrow & Company, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was named as the publisher. The subtitle 
                  
                     2 Letter from Henry J. Dubester, Chief, General Reference and
                            Bibliography Division, Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., to the author, June 10, 1959.
                  
                     3 Letter from Richard S. MacCarteney, Chief, Reference Division, 
                                United States
                             Copyright Office, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., to the author, May 28, 1959. Another interesting feature of this
                            history's publication is that apparently its writing and its sales campaign
                            proceeded simultaneously.
               
                     title indicated that the history of Indiana had been brought
                    "down to 1879," whereas the two earliest editions had given 1875 as end date and
                    the 1876 edition had given 1876. The 1879 edition was somewhat longer than the earlier editions.
                    Nevertheless, it gave the same 1874 copyright date as the previous editions. And as in previous
                    editions, it was dedicated to Indiana pioneers; had a ten-page "Introductory,"
                    dated at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , March, 1875, by Charles R. Tuttle; and included a sixteen-page illustrated sketch of
                    "Pioneer Life in Indiana."4 Since the names of Goodrich and
                    Tuttle did not appear on the title page of the 1879 edition, some libraries, including the Library
                    of Congress, cataloged it as a new work. According to the Preface, this edition included new
                    material on the 1870's, additional sketches of "distinguished public
                    men," and "numerous corrections and alterations" in the text.
            Why did An Illustrated History of the State of Indiana appear when it did, and what
                    were the respective roles played by its original authors and publisher? The basis for its appearance
                    in the 1870's seems readily apparent. That was the Centennial Decade and thus a time of
                    patriotic fervor which expressed itself magnificently in the Exposition of 1876 and in the
                    popularity of state and county histories throughout the country. Unfortunately these histories were
                    generally hastily prepared and usually designed for uncritical readers. In the 1870's
                    Americans were conscious of their historical heritage as they have seldom been, and they welcomed
                    books about pioneer days which emphasized achievements made possible by the hardships and sacrifices
                    of their predecessors, many of whom were their ancestors. Hence in this favorable atmosphere An Illustrated History of the State of Indiana went through four editions in five
                    years even though it appeared during one of the most severe depressions the country has ever
                    experienced.
            Questions about the men originally responsible for this history of Indiana were not easily answered.
                    The usual reference sources yielded nothing of significance, except what might be inferred from
                    entries in the Library of Congress Catalog of Books. Here, information on Goodrich was limited 
                  
                     4 So far as is known, no single Indiana library has all editions of
                                An Illustrated History of the State of Indiana on its shelves. Various
                            editions of this history are available in the Indiana State Library and in the Indiana
                            Historical Society Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ; in the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Public Library; and in the Indiana University Library, 
                                Bloomington
                            . Among them, these four libraries have all editions or printings of the
                            history.
               
                     to his listing as coauthor with Tuttle of An
                        Illustrated History of the State of Indiana.
               5 The original publisher of
                    the history, Richard S. Peale, was listed only as compiler and editor of Peale's Popular Educator and Cyclopedia of Reference: Historical, Biographical, and
                        Statistical, which passed through various editions and a change of title during the time
                    from 1883 to 1887.6 Tuttle, however, appeared in the Catalog as the author of
                    about two dozen books written between 1873 and 1918, several of which went through more than one
                    edition.
            Tuttle's earliest book was a General History of the State of 
                            Michigan
                        
                (1873). The next year came his History of the Border Wars of Two
                        Centuries, Embracing a Narrative of the Wars with the Indians from 1750 to 1874. An Illustrated
                        History of the State of 
                            Wisconsin
                        
                appeared under his name in 1875, the year in which An Illustrated
                        History of the State of Indiana was first published with Goodrich as coauthor. For Tuttle
                    this was only a beginning, for his pen was especially prolific during the 1870's. In 1876,
                    the centennial year, he wrote separate histories of 
                        Iowa
                     and 
                        Kansas
                    ; The Centennial Northwest, which covered the Old Northwest plus
                            
                  Minnesota, Iowa, Kansas
               , and 
                        Nebraska
                    ; and a Family and School History of America—four histories
                    in one year, embracing state, regional, and national history. In addition Tuttle's volume
                    on border and Indian wars was published in what was called an enlarged and revised edition in 1876.
                    Between 1873 and the end of the centennial year, 1876, Tuttle's name was attached to eight
                    different volumes in addition to the Indiana history, but his writing continued with a two-volume
                    history of 
                        Canada
                     in 1877, followed by a one-volume history of 
                        Canada
                     in 1878. An accounting of his subsequent volumes, which ranged widely in content, is
                    beyond the scope of this paper.7
            
            
               
                  5 Association of Research Libraries, A Catalog of Books
                            Represented by Library of Congress Printed Cards Issued to July 31, 1942 (167 vols., 
                            Ann Arbor
                        , Mich., 1942–1946), Vol. 56, p. 724. This source, it should be noted,
                        lists authors, but not publishers in alphabetical order. Thus, this and the two succeeding
                        citations make no effort to indicate the books published by Goodrich and/or Peale.
               
                  6
                        Ibid., Vol. 115, p. 218.
               
                  7
                        Ibid., Vol., 150, pp. 390–391. The listing for Tuttle, however, is
                        incomplete as is indicated by the fact that it does not include An Illustrated
                            History of the State of Indiana. A critical and very unfavorable evaluation of
                        Tuttle's history of 
                            Kansas
                         which appeared in 1876 is that by James C. Malin in "Notes on the Writing
                        of General Histories of 
                            Kansas
                        ," 
                     
                                Kansas
                             Historical Quarterly, XXI (Winter, 1955), 599–611.
            
            
            From the information in the Library of Congress Catalog of Books it appeared logical to infer that
                    Goodrich and Peale were not principally writers, but apparently were publishers, promoters, and
                    salesmen of books. Tuttle, however, seems to have been a writer who lived by his pen, though one
                    might easily also think of him as a promoter and salesman in some important respects. Such evidence
                    also strengthened the conclusion that Tuttle, not Goodrich, had been the principal author of their
                    history of Indiana. This conclusion was supported by the fact that only Tuttle's name was
                    attached to the "Introductory" to this work.
            Fortunately the unresolved questions about An Illustrated History of the State of
                        Indiana and about the men who produced it are not entirely a matter of conjecture, while
                    further research verified conclusions already indicated. Inquiries to various libraries in search of
                    information about Goodrich and Tuttle proved fruitless until there came an informative letter from
                    Miss Caroline Dunn, librarian at the William H. Smith Library of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Miss Dunn's letter included a number of valuable bits of information, but
                    most important of all was the news that the holdings of the Smith Library included a 363-page
                    autobiographical sketch that DeWitt C. Goodrich had written in 1905. This sketch had been given to
                    the library by a son of Goodrich in 1948,8 and with it was the following
                    covering statement, presumably by the son, Calvin Goodrich, of Black Mountain, 
                        North Carolina
                    : 
                        D. C. Goodrich was born in Peru, Indiana, May 30, 1844. He was the son of George Whitefield
                            [Whitfield?] and Jane MacPherson Goodrich, the grandson of Rebecca Pearse Goodrich, widow,
                            who in the winter of 1831–32 brought her children by wagon from Blacksburg,
                                    
                        Montgomery County, Virginia
                     , to 
                                Randolph County
                            , Indiana.
                        The "My Dear Son" with which the sketch begins refers to Calvin, at present
                            resident of Black Mountain, 
                                North Carolina
                            . Though the paper was written in 1905, it did not reach the said Calvin
                            Goodrich until the autumn of 1947. The assumption is that the manuscript, having reached a
                            daughter of D. C. Goodrich in 
                                Connecticut
                             and being stored away in an attic, was wholly forgotten.
                        The author died in West 
                                Lebanon
                            , Indiana, in May, 1920.
                        
                     
                        8 Letter from Miss Caroline Dunn, Librarian, William H. Smith
                                Library of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Ind., to the author, May 26, 1959. Acknowledgment is made to Miss Dunn for
                                her generous aid and for authorization to quote from the Goodrich Autobiography.
                  
                        
                        The "Home" to which reference is made is the National Military Home, at
                                    
                        Leavenworth, Kansas
                     . Goodrich was quartermaster and commisary of
                            subsistence, so entitled, with the rank of captain.
                        By some unexplained oversight, no mention is made of the second wife, Elizabeth Billings G.,
                            to whom the author was married in 1886 at 
                        Paola, Kansas
                     . As the
                            marriage was a happy one and, so far as known, undisturbed by even commonplace family
                            contentions, the oversight cannot be construed as intentional.
                        To what DeWitt Goodrich says of himself may be added that he was of a somewhat romantic
                            character, inclined to be attracted to places at a distance from where he happened to be, to
                            make dubious investments in gold mines, oil wells and inventions, to accept what was written
                            of American leaders as untainted of fantasies or falcifications (especially if they were
                            Republican), and to share with his generation full faith in Progress. He was kindly and
                            self-sacrificing toward his family. A strong sense of justice governed his views, and
                            because of it he was sometimes misled into hasty and mistaken courses. He is buried with
                            father, mother and at least one sister in Mount Hope Cemetery, Peru, Indiana.
                    
            
            Goodrich's autobiography contains much information about himself, Tuttle, and Peale. It
                    must, however, be noted that Goodrich wrote his autobiography two decades after An
                        Illustrated History of the State of Indiana first appeared. Moreover, Goodrich's
                    version of his relations with Tuttle and Peale cannot, at least at this writing, be checked against
                    similar recollections of Tuttle and Peale. Nevertheless, that information which Goodrich offers as
                    fact is generally easily separated from his opinions.
            The initial one hundred pages of Goodrich's autobiography are largely devoted to his life
                    preceding the Civil War. He states that he and a twin brother were born at Peru, Indiana, May 27,
                    1844. His father was a surveyor and engineer who moved the family to 
                        Kansas
                     in the spring of 1855 when that territory was in the midst of turmoil over slavery.
                    Disliking the proslavery pressure in 
                        Kansas
                     and attracted to the lead mines of southwestern 
                        Missouri
                    , the family soon crossed into 
                        Missouri
                    . The father, a staunch Union supporter, according to his son, returned the family to
                    Peru following the outbreak of the Civil War in 1861.9
            
            Approximately one-third of the autobiography tells of Goodrich's military service during the
                    Civil War. He volunteered in 1861 when he was less than eighteen years of age and without the
                    permission of his father. Although he arrived 
                  
                     9 Goodrich Autobiography, especially pp. 1–4,
                            11–14, 45–48, 63–86.
               
                     in 
                        Indianapolis
                     with other volunteers, his father soon paid him a visit at Camp Morton, obtained his
                    release, and returned him home. Before long, however, his father relented, and young Goodrich was
                    mustered into service as a member of the Fourteenth Battery of Light Artillery at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , March 24, 1862, about two months before his eighteenth birthday. He served with his
                    battery in 
                  Tennessee, Mississippi, Louisiana
               , and 
                        Alabama
                    , and was mustered out of service at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , September 1, 1865.10
            
            During the year 1865–1866 Goodrich attended the Collegiate Institute, a school maintained
                    by the Methodists, at Battle Ground, Indiana. In 1866 he was elected surveyor of 
                        Miami County
                     on the Republican ticket. In the years immediately following, he did railroad surveying
                    in 
                        Michigan
                     and Indiana, but his railroad employment ended in 1869 because of a lawsuit. Meanwhile,
                    he was married at 
                        Lebanon
                    , Indiana, in 1867, but continued to make his home at Peru. In 1869 Goodrich was a young
                    man in his mid-twenties, married, and in need of another position.11
                    "About this time a fellow by the name of J. W. Lyon came to Peru canvassing for a work
                    called `Kitto's History of the Bible [.]'" Goodrich became an agent for
                    this history and made $72 during his first three days of selling in 
                        Miami County
                    .12
            
            Soon Goodrich was a book salesman and publisher. In 1870 he went to 
                  Toledo, Ohio
               ,
                    where he met Peale, who had sold Kitto's work in 
                        Michigan
                    . O. A. Browning, general agent for this book, persuaded Goodrich and Peale to work
                    together in 
                        Carroll County
                    , Indiana. By the next year, the two had finished their canvassing in 
                        Carroll County
                    ; Peale returned to his home in 
                        Connecticut
                    , while Goodrich became general agent at 
                        Lafayette
                     for C. F. Vent, a 
                        Cincinnati
                     subscription book publisher. On Goodrich's suggestion, he and Vent published
                    and sold a volume on the 
                        Chicago
                     fire of 1871. In 1872 Goodrich went to 
                        Chicago
                     to take charge of a larger sales area than his previous one. Before the end of the year
                    he and Vent formed a partnership. Vent published books at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and Goodrich sold them in his area. The partnership 
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., 87–192. The record of Goodrich's military
                            service is based on Indiana, Report of the Adjutant General of the State of
                                Indiana (8 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1865–1869), VII, 741, and III, 422–423. In this source
                            the last name is spelled "Goodarich."
                  
                     11 Goodrich Autobiography, 192–211, 259–270.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., 270, 274.
               
                     with Vent was soon dissolved, because Goodrich objected to
                    Vent's involvement in debt.13
            
            Goodrich and Peale soon began working together again. Since the time of their initial work together
                    as book salesmen, Peale had married and gone to Jackson, 
                        Michigan
                    , where he became a general agent in the book business. Before opening his 
                        Michigan
                     office, he spent two or three weeks with Goodrich in his general agency at 
                        Lafayette
                    . After a couple of years in 
                        Michigan
                    , during which time his wife died, Peale asked Goodrich to join him in publishing a
                    history of Indiana. Presumably Peale had met Tuttle in 
                        Michigan
                    —Tuttle's history of that state appeared in 1873—and had
                    been impressed with him as an author. Goodrich's account of the writing and publication of
                        An Illustrated History of the State of Indiana is interestingly and frankly
                    told: 
                        We engaged a fellow named Tuttle to write up a history of Indiana. Tuttle had written a
                            history of 
                                Michigan
                             which he attempted to get out & sell thru agents. Failing in this, he
                            sold it to a 
                                Mich.
                             firm & entered into a contract not to write another state history
                            unless it be for these people. He thought he could not do this work for us under his name as
                            author. It was decided to use my name, which of course would be a deception. I agreed to the
                            use of my name, but with the understanding I should do some of the work. So I wrote some of
                            the County histories & prepared all the statistical matter which appears in the
                            work.
                    It was learned that it would not be illegal for Tuttle to do writing on the Indiana history,
                    so his name was put on the title page. Goodrich's Autobiography continues the account about
                    the history of Indiana: 
                        Tuttle was a graduate of a theological college & was very bright. He was at that time
                            about thirty years of age & had been a Methodist preacher. For some reason he got
                            out of it & took up his pen for a living. He could sit at the table write history,
                            & rapidly too, at the same time carry on a conversation with others present. We
                            opened an office in 
                                Indianapolis
                             to which Peale went & there Tuttle did the larger part of his work
                            where he could gather data for his work from the state library & the state archives.
                        He had to travel over the state considerably in getting biographical sketches &
                            portraits. We paid him a salary for his work & all of his traveling expenses.
                        
                     
                        13
                                Ibid., 278–291. The Indiana University Library has a copy
                                of Elias Colbert and Everett Chamberlin's 
                           
                                        Chicago
                                     and the Great Conflagration (
                                    Cincinnati
                                 and 
                                    New York
                                , 1871), in which Vent is given as publisher.
                  
                        
                        The first thing we did was to get out a prospectus & start out agents taking orders
                            for future delivery.
                        Peale ran this part of the work mainly from the 
                                Indianapolis
                             office, the Northwestern part of the state being looked after by myself from 
                                Chicago
                            . I had entire charge of the financial end & the getting out of the book
                            plates & the engravings. This work was somewhat divided up. One firm in 
                                Chicago
                             did the composition work. Harder Luse & Co steriotyped [sic] the plates. Baker & Co wood engravers in 
                                Chicago
                             & Crossup & West engravers of Phila made the engravings. When
                            the plates were all completed, the printing was done by Knight & Leonard &
                            the binding by Donohue Henneberry & Wilson, of 
                                Chicago
                            .
                        Our first edition was three thousand all of which was sold before they were off the presses.
                            This was followed at once with an edition of two thousand. In fact we sold them faster than
                            they could be printed & bound. Some firms, like the Studybakers the great wagon
                            & carriage makers at 
                                South Bend
                            , bought quite a number of copies for distribution. Some who had their
                            biographies in the work bought liberally to give to their children & relatives. So
                            the work went along swimmingly & we were, of course, pleased with our success.14
                  
                    
            
            Although Goodrich wrote that "the work went along swimmingly" with the Indiana
                    history, the association of Goodrich, Tuttle, and Peale was of short duration. Goodrich recalled:
                        
                        After our history of Indiana was completed & Tuttle paid for his work, Peale told me
                            of things he (Tuttle) did while at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , that completely disgusted me with the fellow. He wanted to go to work on a
                            history of 
                                Illinois
                             for our publication, but we both agreed to have nothing more to do with
                            him… He went to 
                                Madison
                             Wis & commenced writing up a history of that State. While at this, late
                            in the fall Tuttle wired Peale to come up to see him. When he started I said to him
                            "Don't let Tuttle talk you into getting out his 
                                Wis.
                             history." He said he would not. But he did it just the same.
                        He signed a contract to publish it, not in the firm name but in his own.15
                  
                    Since Goodrich wished no connection involving Tuttle, his partnership with Peale was
                    dissolved. As Goodrich and Peale had already contracted to publish a history of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Peale sold Goodrich his interest in the book on the Keystone State. Peale soon got
                    "his second disgust" of Tuttle and asked 
                  
                     14 The information and quotations in the preceding paragraph are in
                            Goodrich Autobiography, 294–299.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., 303–304. Tuttle's integrity and methods are
                            questioned in the article by Malin cited in note 7.
               
                     for an interest in the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     history again. Goodrich agreed. Goodrich later had financial difficulties, partly
                    involving his relationship with Peale, but explains: 
                        Notwithstanding all this I could never lose all my friendship for him. He stuck to the
                            business until 1893 & retired from it worth, I was told by a party in 
                                Chicago
                            , about a million & a half dollars.
                        Several years afterward he got back into it again & I think, is now engaged in it.16
                  
                    
            
            As the preceding comments and quotations have indicated, Goodrich's autobiography is
                    revealing regarding his own career and practices. He lobbied members of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     General Assembly on behalf of his books.17 In 1878 he had a large
                    edition of the Indiana history in press when the press was consumed by fire. Because of this
                    disaster, he decided to leave the book business. In 1879 he went to 
                        Kansas
                     where he worked for an insurance agency at 
                        Paola
                    . In 1880 he became associated with Thos. F. Stanley in a book and stationery store,
                    also at 
                        Paola
                    . Goodrich's wife died in 1883, and two years later he entered upon duties at
                    the National Military Home, Fort 
                        Leavenworth
                    , where he served until 1905.18 Presumably the fire in 1878 that
                    destroyed Goodrich's book in press explains the publication of the 1879 edition of An Illustrated History of the State of Indiana under new auspices.
            Goodrich, Peale, and Tuttle were all young men when An Illustrated History of the State
                        of Indiana appeared. Goodrich was, as indicated, a native of Indiana, and Peale apparently
                    was from 
                        Connecticut
                    . Tuttle's place of birth is unknown. Except for its biographical sketches, An Illustrated History of the State of Indiana made few contributions to knowledge
                    of the history of Indiana. Although its authors frequently cited John B. Dillon's earlier
                        History of Indiana … 1816 to 1856, which had appeared in 1859, as
                    well as other sources, it was not an accurate or reliable account.
            
               
                  16 Goodrich Autobiography, 304–318. See pp. 317–318
                        for the quotation. An Illustrated History of the Commonwealth of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , by William H. M. D. Egle (2 vols., 
                            Harrisburg
                        , Pa., 1877) lists only Goodrich as its publisher. A copy of this volume is in the
                        Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               
                  17 Goodrich Autobiography, 318 ff.
               
                  18
                        Ibid., 331–363. For a description of Goodrich's duties at
                        the National Military Home, see quotation on p. 23 of this article.
            
         
         
         
         
            The Americans as Elite: An Essay in the Cultural Approach to History
            William M. Neil⋆
            
            One of the most interesting activities of historians today is concerned with the exploration of as
                    many approaches to the examination of an historical subject as ingenuity permits. What is meant by
                    the term "approach" is fairly obvious. An approach is an avenue, a particular way
                    of coming at something which provides its own unique access. It leads one to a vantage point from
                    which to gain a certain insight that cannot be attained elsewhere. Of course real understanding of
                    anything demands that all approaches be explored and all vantage points eventually be used. But, at
                    the very least as a preliminary to the fullest understanding possible, the single, particular
                    approach is valuable as an analytic device.
            One such approach is suggested by a key concept from the behavioral science of anthropology, an
                    approach emphasizing the culture concept. Man alone among all the creatures of this planet is
                    distinguished by the possession of a culture, a vast agglomeration of ideas and artifacts, beliefs
                    and institutions, knowledge and customs. Viewed at one level, culture is the "composite of
                    the capabilities and habits learned by man as a member of society."1 At
                    this level it is the sum total of the raw material for the study of man: the sum total of his
                    political, social, economic, intellectual, religious, and aesthetic value judgements; the sum total
                    of his concrete ways of behavior; the sum total of his store of material possessions. At a higher
                    level, culture is an inferential construct that enables us to generalize about these human
                    phenomena. It is an abstraction like the concept in physics of a gravitational field, which no one
                    has ever seen but which makes possible an understanding of the phenomena from which it is inferred.
                    The immediate observable culture traits—behavioral uniformities 
                  
                     ⋆ William M. Neil is assistant professor of history and
                            acting director at the Gary Center of Indiana University. He has based this essay on a
                            lecture that he delivered November 4, 1959, as the first in a series of lectures given by
                            the faculty of the Gary Center in dedication of the Center's new building.
                  
                     1 Social Science Research Council, The Social Sciences in
                                Historical Study: A Report of the Committee on Historiography, Bulletin 64 (
                                New York
                            , 1954), 37.
               
                     such as ways of dressing, or preferences in the shapes of tools,
                    or belief in a religion, or systems of etiquette, and so forth—can, through this
                    inferential concept of culture, be seen to be expressions of a deeper, unconscious organization.
                    These unconscious assumptions characteristically made by individuals in a given culture constitute
                    the basic themes of the culture; they can be abstracted from concrete cultural traits and used to
                    identify the force structure underneath that supports and shapes them. Thus we can speak of modern
                    Western culture in terms of such abstractions, cultural common denominators so to speak, as the
                    themes of Individalism, Rationalism, Libertarianism, Nationalism, and so on. Obviously in any large
                    culture area there will be many variations on such basic themes, depending upon at what time and in
                    what place particular examples are examined. But as the basic theme in a set of musical variations
                    governs the limits of the variations, so the basic cultural themes govern the limits of cultural
                    variations for any specific culture.2
            
            Cultures may be associated spatially with geographic areas and temporally with historical periods.
                    They may be classified into various categories, just as the forms of life are classified, by
                    dividing and subdividing larger groups into smaller ones according to the variations on basic
                    themes. Thus, human culture can be divided into primitive and civilized cultures; civilized cultures
                    into those of Europe, Asia, Africa, etc.; European into Western and Eastern; Western into French,
                    German, Anglo-American, etc.; Anglo-American into English and American; and so on. In short, culture
                    is defined as the sum total of observable traits as well as the abstract inferences devised in order
                    to generalize about the observable traits and their relationships.
            Cultures, as remarked above, are often identified by national labels. In the case of American
                    culture, it can be said that in one sense the term "American" is an objective
                    label used to denote a particular subarea within the larger culture area of Western Europe. Within
                    this subarea the basic abstract themes, or common denominators of Western European culture, are to
                    be found in their American variations. In another and more common sense,
                    "American" stands for a particular national group. Such a group is itself a bundle
                    of 
                  
                     2 For the discussion of culture in this paragraph, the author is
                            indebted to the source cited in the preceding note.
               
                     culture traits combined to form an example of one of the most
                    significant abstract cultural themes—nationalism—born in the Western European
                    culture area. In this sense the term "American" connotes that
                    people's self-conscious awareness of its own unique identity, with all that this awareness
                    implies in the way of an historical self-image.
            This essay proposes to examine the extent to which the concept of the American as elite has entered
                    American culture and to make this examination from the approach of the American people's
                    self-conscious view of themselves in history.
            History is essentially the study of man's past. A little reflection will soon make it clear
                    that there are really two pasts, an actual past and an historical past. The actual past stands for
                    what actually happened at some precise time and at some precise place. There can be only one actual
                    past, inaccessible and irrevocable. The historical past represents later efforts to reconstruct the
                    actual past and to understand its meaning. The job of reconstructing what actually happened is
                    difficult enough, depending as it does on painstakingly piecing together vestiges of the actual past
                    that have come down to us in the form of historical evidence—evidence that is incomplete
                    and full of distortions like images reflected through a series of imperfect and broken mirrors. It
                    is even more difficult to discover any definitive meaning in the past, for the actual past is
                    enigmatic. To know finally what actually happened, a well-nigh impossible task in itself, is not to
                    know automatically why it happened and what it meant. The construction of an historical past is
                    inseparable from the attempt to interpret the past.
            Before the nineteenth century the interpretation of history revealed in general two fundamental
                    assumptions about the nature of man in history. The Greco-Roman view of historical man was a
                    humanistic one that saw man as Man. It used the universal human endowments as
                    bench marks and with these measured out history and judgments on men and peoples. In
                    contradistinction to the classical view of man in history was the Judaeo-Christian religious view
                    that saw man as spirit and revealed divine intention working upon and through man as the real
                    meaning of history. The Judaeo-Christian view of history supplanted the classical view upon the
                    decline of the Greco-Roman civilization and dominated European thought through the Middle Ages and
                    down to the  late seventeenth century, when the beginnings of the
                    Enlightenment brought about a revival of classicism.
            Beginning with the period of the French Revolution a new concept of man in history emerged, the
                    nationalistic one. This concept saw history as a force generated by a combination of ethnic and
                    geographical elements into the highest human group, the self-conscious nationality. This new
                    interpretation, however, rested upon an older view of man than either the classical or the
                    Judaeo-Christian. It rested upon what one might call the primitive view of man which saw mankind as
                    kin, epitomizing the mystic consanguinity of special bloodlines. Expressed simply at the primitive
                    level the nationalistic concept refers to the kind of self-centeredness that led the tribe of one
                    mountain valley to call themselves by name with the word that in their language stood for man, and
                    then by implacable illogic to refer to the tribe of the neighboring valley, therefore, as Not-Men,
                    and hence suitable for killing and eating. Expressed complexly at the civilized level this concept
                    means the kind of group glorification that can lead eventually the nationals on one side of a
                    striped barrier-pole to call themselves Herrenvolk and by implacable illogic to
                    regard those beyond as sub-men and suitable for conquest and the gas chamber.
            The kind of nationalism just described is essentially a state of mind. While homogeneity of
                    population and culture and the possession of an exclusive territory are often important in helping
                    shape nationalism, they are not indispensable factors; nor are they as important as the will to be a
                    nation, which often, as in the cases of 
                        Switzerland
                     and 
                        Israel
                    , triumphs over lack of homogeneity or territorial unity. This nationalistic state of
                    mind represents a deep emotional commitment and depends to a very large degree upon a sense of group
                    solidarity. This solidarity in turn rests upon what we might call the mythos of the group. A crucial
                    part of this group mythos is the belief that all members of the group are entitled to claim as part
                    of their heritage the historical experience of the group. The glorious past belongs to all. This
                    belief is quite important in bridging disparities between the different components within the
                    national group who otherwise would not have much in common or, even, in the case of economic and
                    social classes, be potential rivals. 
                        Plymouth
                     Rock, Valley Forge, 
                        Gettysburg
                     belong to everyone, and when  thought of as a common
                    heritage create a warm bond of oneness among all members of American society: hence the importance
                    of the group's view of its past to modern nationalism.
            Modern nationalistic history began in the era of the French Revolution and Napoleon and became firmly
                    established in the post-Napoleonic period of Romantic fervor and nationalist struggle. Historians
                    like Treitschke in 
                        Germany
                    , Michelet in 
                        France
                    , Palacky in Bohemia, and others elsewhere became immensely popular. The kind of history
                    that they produced captivated the emotions of Europe; they were the searchers of the national past
                    who presented the most irresistible interpretation of the national experience. In their works one
                    can see the coming of age of modern nationalism—the fusing of the political institution
                    of the state with the Romantic mystique of the Volksblut. Thus came about the
                    modern nation-state, the ideal instrument for expressing a national elite's particular
                    genius—a process consisting largely of satisfying the political ambitions of the state
                    then justifying it on the grounds of the superiority of the "blood."
            During this era of emerging nationalism the Anglo-American experience was at one and the same time a
                    part of the European experience and yet apart from it. Both Great Britain and the 
                        United States
                     could not escape from being affected by the nineteenth-century virus of nationalism;
                    its course of development in 
                        England
                     and America, however, was along distinctive lines. It is not within the scope of this
                    paper to consider the story of British nationalism, however interesting that may be; passing to
                    America, it becomes clear that American nationalism represents a distinct and very intriguing
                    variation on the European theme.
            In the 
                        United States
                     there occurred no deification of the state and no exaltation of the national authority.
                    Nor was there any significant attraction to the cult of the blood—except for upper
                    classes in the ante bellum South, who became hopelessly intoxicated with the romanticism of Sir
                    Walter Scott, and a few pockets of snobbish Anglo-Saxonism among landed and moneyed would-be
                    aristocrats in the East. To be sure, there would be occasional outbreaks of xenophobia in America in
                    various forms, but even this represented more a kind of provincialism and insularity than the Herrenvolk's
                     savage contempt for the lesser breed. Racial and religious
                    bigotry there would be in plenty, lynch mobs and slave quarters—but no pogroms, no
                    ghettos, none of the formal apparatus of the state used so often in Europe to suppress the
                    out-group.
            Cosmopolitanized by unrestricted immigration into a nation of nations, conditioned by their own past
                    into believers in the proposition that all governments are created evil, Americans proved at one and
                    the same time to be receptive to the idea of nationalism but hostile to its European expressions. As
                    substitutes for the ideas of Volkstat and Volks-blut, Americans
                    preferred two others. These were drawn from the brief, yet deeply revered past of the Republic and
                    had absolute hold upon the minds and hearts of the people—the ideas of freedom and
                    enterprise. (One might suspect that the extent to which the average American wholeheartedly
                    subscribes to the slogan "free enterprise" has little to do with his views on
                    economics or business and everything to do with his instinctive reaction to the two
                    "holiest" words in his ideology.) As the American people saw it and would continue
                    to see it, the genius of America, amply demonstrated by history, had brought about the establishment
                    in this land of the most free and enterprising people of all times the creation of an American
                    elite. As one of the most popular of mid-nineteenth-century American history textbooks put it:
                        
                        "Westward the Course of Freedom Takes its Way…. Here, for the first time
                            in human history, man will be truly man, developed in all his powers, and
                            enabled to realize the prophetic dream of his infancy, and the growing hopes of his youth.
                            Here shall be realized the long prophesied, long expected Golden Age,
                            which shall perfectly reconcile Order with Liberty, Individual Interests with the General
                            Good…. "3
                  
                    
            
            The ideal of freedom is most generally associated in the American popular mind with the Constitution.
                    To the people the Constitution is America's talisman. In its tangible substance, framed
                    impressively in glass and steel, is the embodiment of America's superiority. Its very
                    existence is irrefutable proof of the American political genius. To quote Hans Kohn: 
                        It does not solemnly proclaim the sovereignty of the nation nor invoke high moral or
                            religious principles. It draws its lasting strength not from what it says but what it is:
                            the embodiment of the idea by which 
                        
                           3 Hans Kohn, American Nationalism: An
                                        Interpretative Essay (
                                        New York
                                    , 1957), 64, quoting Jesse Olney, A History of the 
                                            United States
                                         for the Use of Schools and Academies (
                                        New Haven
                                    , Conn., 1852).
                     
                             the 
                                United States
                             was constituted—a nation without even a name to which emotions could
                            cling, like 
                        England, France
                     , Italia or Hellas, and yet from its beginning appealing to
                            the imagination of men as the first nation to identify itself and to have been identified by
                            others with an idea. To become an American has always meant to identify oneself with the
                                idea.4
                  
                    To most Americans the Constitution is the supreme embodiment of democracy—an
                    example of a group's will to its own interpretation of history, which is an idea that
                    transcends the actual facts of the Constitution's antidemocratic origins. Likewise, to most
                    Americans the Constitution is the embodiment of union, the sacred manifestation of democratic
                    solidarity for freedom and against slavery, the Union that was tested and not
                    found wanting in the bloodiest war the country has ever fought and sanctified by the martyrdom of
                    America's greatest folk hero. Union and democracy—democracy and union: no other
                    words are better calculated to swell the American's breast with national pride. On these
                    words and on the historical visions they call up, the American rests his case for freedom as the
                    ultimate human value, for America as the land most dedicated to it, and for the American as
                    freedom's elite.
            But to what end this American freedom? The answer for most Americans lies bright in the pages of
                    their history books. To the end of enterprise—the undertaking of bold, hard, dangerous,
                    noble endeavors; the readiness to take risks and try things yet untried, to put energy and
                    initiative to the service of progress measured in terms of self-improvement and justified in the
                    name of general improvement. Freedom dedicated to enterprise—here is the American formula
                    for a process of infinite perfectibility.
            To the American people regarding their history, the idea of enterprise has been from the beginning
                    dominated by a sense of Manifest Destiny. Here is a key phrase in the language of the American as
                    elite. It goes straight back to the heritage of Puritanism and its Calvinist convictions of a chosen
                    people. Who could doubt the evidence of his senses that this people, waxing powerful and prosperous
                    in a land fabulously endowed by nature with every conceivable form of wealth, was divinely favored?
                    To the American people 
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 8–9.
               
                     nothing in their history seemed clearer, more encouraging, more
                    inspiring than their obvious "rendezvous with destiny."
            But what precisely was the destined Great American Enterprise? Making allowances for the fact that
                    people seldom think consistently and logically when it comes to ideologies, remembering also that at
                    any time in a people's history there will be much intermingling, overlapping, borrowing,
                    exchanging, and confusing of ideological thought within the group, we can state that in general
                    Americans have been influenced by two traditional conceptions of the Great American Enterprise. Of
                    these two ideas about the basis for American greatness, one represents the tradition of agrarian
                    America and the American farmer, the other the tradition of entrepreneurial America and the American
                    businessman.
            The American farmer tradition has been geographically isolationist, politically
                    Jeffersonian-Jacksonian, economically agrarian, socially rural, culturally nativist; the American
                    business tradition has been geographically global, politically Hamiltonian, economically capitalist,
                    socially urban, culturally cosmopolitan. These two traditions represent the main currents of
                    American history. In their interrelations they establish the polarities that create the tensions of
                    American history.
            The tradition which enjoyed the position of dominance in America before the turn of the twentieth
                    century was, of course, that of agrarianism. The Great American Enterprise was the conquest and
                    utilization of the land, the conversion of the wilderness into fruitful farms. The pioneer farmer
                    represented the American folk hero, the older of the two conceptions of the American as elite. On
                    practically every state seal was a depiction in heroic dimensions of the farmer and his
                    tools—plowboys and their ox teams, shocks of wheat, scythes, reapers, and so on. These
                    symbolized America's pride in her yeomen, the salt of the earth. Regarded in the public
                    mind as the most free and enterprising farmer on the globe, the American husbandman was always
                    depicted standing proud and independent upon his land, subject to no other man's bidding, a
                    fitting stalwart to accomplish America's destiny. Land was his great desire, farming his
                    sacred dedication, the political tradition of Andrew Jackson his guarantee of freedom, and an
                    unshakeable conviction in the superiority of the American farmer his credo.
            
            From this agrarian tradition came one of the most powerfully influential interpretations of American
                    history that ever captured the minds of the American people—Frederick Jackson
                    Turner's frontier thesis. Turner saw in the American farmer's experience, which
                    was repeated every generation upon a gradually receding frontier of cheap land, a great force which
                    made America unique in character and accomplishments among the nations of the world. Out of the
                    struggle to subdue the wilderness, a struggle of almost three hundred years, developed American
                    democracy, ingenuity, practicality, individualism, optimism—in short, all the attributes
                    of the inimitable American character, fashioned in freedom on an agrarian frontier.
            Ironically, the turn of the century that saw the publication of Turner's interpretation of
                    American history also saw the surrender of the once dominant agrarian tradition to its old rival,
                    the entrepreneurial tradition. This business tradition had always existed side by side with the
                    agrarian tradition, but always as representative of a minority in the nation as a whole. It saw the
                    Great American Enterprise not as the taming of agricultural frontiers—this was only
                    incidental—but as the creation of a new commercial and industrial world power. Its hero
                    was the businessman; capital was his great desire, trade his sacred dedication, the political
                    tradition of Alexander 
                        Hamilton
                     and Henry 
                        Clay
                     his guarantee of freedom, and an unshakable conviction in the superiority of American
                    business his comfort.
            The great catastrophe which set American agrarians at each other's throats also destroyed
                    the dominance of their tradition. The American Civil War, which, as Lewis Mumford puts it, drew a
                    white-hot gash across American history, signalized the end of an era. The rise of the New
                    Industrialism in the period of Reconstruction meant the emergence of a new America, the emergence of
                    modern America, as Allan Nevins phrases it. The younger generations flocked to the city, which, in
                    the cases of the great exploding metropolises, became the glamorous new frontiers. The farmer grew
                    less and less important as his numbers in the general population grew proportionally smaller and his
                    relative share in the national wealth rapidly dwindled. The sturdy plowboys still remained on the
                    state seals, their brawny arms filled with the shocks of ripe harvests, but people no  longer thought of them as symbolic of America's greatness. The
                    captain of industry, surrounded by the newfangled instruments of commercial activity, the telephone,
                    the typewriter, the dictaphone, the stock ticker, captivated the imagination of the American people
                    and convinced them that here was the new American genius. As Sherwood Anderson bitterly commented:
                        
                        "In the days before the coming of industry, before the time of the mad awakening,
                            the towns of the Middle West were sleepy places devoted to the practice of the old trades,
                            to agriculture and merchandising. In the morning the men of the towns went forth to work in
                            the fields or to the practice of the trade of carpentry, horse-shoeing, wagon-making,
                            harness repairing, and the making of shoes and clothing. They read books and believed in a
                            God born in the brains of men who came out of a civilization much like their own. On the
                            farms and in the houses in the towns the men and women worked together toward the same ends
                            in life. They lived in small frame houses set on the plains like boxes, but very
                            substantially built…. After one of the poor little houses had been lived in for a
                            long time, after the children had been born and men had died, after men and women had
                            suffered and had moments of joy together in the tiny rooms under the low roofs, a subtle
                            change took place. The houses became almost beautiful in their old humanness. Each of the
                            houses began vaguely to shadow forth the personality of the people who lived within its
                            walls…. A sense of quiet growth awoke in sleeping minds. It was the time for art
                            and beauty to awake in the land.
                        "Instead the giant, Industry, awoke. Boys, who in the schools had read of Lincoln,
                            walking for miles through the forest to borrow his first book … began to read in
                            the newspapers and magazines of men who by developing their faculty for getting and keeping
                            money had become suddenly and overwhelmingly rich. Hired writers called these men great, and
                            there was no maturity of mind in the people with which to combat the force of the statement,
                            often repeated….
                        "Out through the coal and iron regions of 
                                Pennsylvania
                             into 
                                Ohio
                             and Indiana, and on westward into the 
                                United States
                             bordering on the Mississippi River, industry
                            crept….
                        "A vast energy seemed to come out of the breast of the earth…. [and] a
                            whole people, full of the native energy and strength of lives lived in a new land, rushed
                            pell-mell into a new age."5
                  
                    The farmer—no longer the salt of the earth—became the butt of jokes;
                    his image was now that of the hick, the hayseed, the ridiculous creature in the straw hat and the
                    billy-goat whiskers, stupidly and pathetically clutching his pitchfork 
                  
                     5 Sherwood Anderson, Poor White (
                                New York
                            , 1920), 131 ff., quoted in Samuel Eliot Morison and Henry Steele Commager, The Growth of the American Republic (4th ed. rev., 2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1960), II, 140–141.
               
                     in abject helplessness while the city slicker stole both the
                    fruits of his livelihood and the virtue of his daughter from under his very nose.
            As America changed, so did its conception of the American ideal type change. The farmer fought back.
                    Hamlin Garland and other writers saw the starkness and desperation of this effort in the Populist
                    Revolt. As William Allen White described it, 
                        It was a fanaticism like the crusades. Indeed the delusion that was working on the people
                            took the form of religious frenzy. Sacred hymns were torn from their pious tunes to give
                            place to words which deified the cause and made gold—and all its symbols,
                            capital, wealth, plutocracy—diabolical. At night, from 10,000 little white
                            school-house windows, lights twinkled back vain hope to the stars…. They sang
                            their barbaric songs in unrhythmic jargon, with something of the same mad faith that
                            inspired the martyrs going to the stake. Far into the night the voices rose,
                            women's voices, children's voices, the voices of old men, of youths and of
                            maidens rose on the ebbing prairie breezes as the crusaders of the revolution rode home,
                            praising the people's will as though it were God's will and cursing wealth
                            for its iniquity.6
                  
                    One last great battle, and Bryan and the farmer as the folk ideals of America went down
                    before Mark Hanna and the proponents of American business. The Great American Enterprise of the
                    frontier and the land was over.
            By the 1920's the cult of business was firmly entrenched. Americans began to invest the
                    businessman with all the attributes of a new national elite; a few, like Bruce Barton in his
                    best-selling biography of Christ, even tried to recast traditional Christianity in the new mold,
                    calling Jesus the Great Salesman and the Golden Rule the best advertising copy ever written. Most
                    Americans, however, were satisfied simply to see the Rotarian replace the Granger as the American
                    self-image.
            The agrarian tradition of older America did not vanish completely, of course; its attitudes and
                    outlooks still remain important parts of the American scene. The Turner thesis, though criticized
                    vociferously in the last twenty years, remains in its essentials the single most widely accepted
                    interpretation of American history. Isolationism and nativism are still to be encountered in their
                    traditional guises, and the Jeffersonian-Jacksonian political tradition is still the one 
                  
                     6 William Allen White, Stratagems and Spoils: Stories of
                                Love and Politics (
                                New York
                            , 1901), 207–208.
               
                     most appealing to the American masses. Nevertheless, the
                    American regards the successful businessman as the epitome of American national superiority. His
                    ideas, his attitudes and values, his likes and dislikes, his evaluation of himself are well-nigh
                    universally accepted in America today. The businessman image—whether it is represented by
                    a successful general in the White House, a master of great productive forces in industry, or an
                    eager Jaycee selling peanuts for polio on the street corner—is the image that Americans
                    of today uncritically exalt over all others. Despite thirty years of satire and caricature, despite
                    the disillusionment and despair of the Great Depression, the popular view of the American as elite,
                    the champion of freedom and enterprise, is the man in the gray flannel suit.
         
         
         
            
               WILLIAM B. FLETCHER
               
            
            
            
               This map, signed "W. B. F.," was no doubt drawn by William B. Fletcher. It is
                        published in [Merrill], The Soldier of Indiana in the War for the Union, I,
                        facing page 7.
            
            
            The Civil War Journal of William B. Fletcher
            Contributed and edited by Loriman S. Brigham⋆
            
            William B. Fletcher, author of the Civil War journal which follows, was born in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , August 18, 1837. His parents, Calvin and Sarah Hill Fletcher, had been among the early
                    settlers of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and soon became one of the leading families of the Hoosier capital. William, the
                    seventh of ten children, studied at various educational institutions, including 
                        Harvard
                    , where he attended lectures by the noted Louis Agassiz. About 1859 he received a degree
                    in medicine from the College of Physicians and Surgeons of 
                        New York
                     City. When the Civil War began in the spring of 1861, Dr. Fletcher was practicing his
                    profession in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .1
            
            Immediately upon the outbreak of the war, Dr. Fletcher enlisted in the Sixth Regiment of Indiana
                    Volunteers, which was mustered into service for ninety days at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on April 25, 1861. As indicated in his journal, Fletcher served twenty days as a
                    hospital surgeon, presumably at Camp Morton, before his regiment left for western 
                        Virginia
                     (now West 
                        Virginia
                    ) on May 30. Dr. Fletcher expected a medical appointment from the governor, but it did
                    not materialize, and he was sworn into service as a fife major. A nonmusical fife major, the young
                    physician apparently became a secretary or aide to his colonel. His ability to make rapid drawings,
                    as evidenced by the sketches which accompany his journal, most likely was a factor in his soon being
                    assigned to scouting and spying expeditions in West 
                        Virginia
                    .2
            
            
               
                  ⋆ Loriman S. Brigham is assistant treasurer of the National
                        Life Insurance Co., Montpelier, 
                            Vermont
                        , and is the owner of the William B. Fletcher Diary.
               
                  1 Biographical material in this Introduction, unless otherwise indicated,
                        has followed: B. R. Sulgrove, History of 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Marion County
                            , Indiana (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1884), 285–286; Dictionary of American Biography (22
                        vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1928–1958), VI, 469–470; R. French Stone (ed.), Biography of Eminent American Physicians and Surgeons (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1894), 162–163; R. H. Ritter, "Doctor William B.
                        Fletcher," Transactions of the Indiana State Medical Association,
                        1907 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1907), 496–499. Unfortunately these and other sources are not in
                        agreement on some details of William B. Fletcher's life; however, the information
                        included in this Introduction is thought to be accurate.
               
                  2 Fletcher's volunteering for military service is mentioned in
                        his journal which follows (see pp. 51–52; see also note 7 on p. 51. Additional
                        information about his volunteering is included in the diary of his father, Calvin Fletcher,
                        which is preserved in the William Henry
            
            
            Western 
                        Virginia
                     was in a state of chaos in June of 1861. 
                        Virginia
                     had seceded from the Union, but most of the state's western part preferred to
                    remain with the Union and was attempting to "secede" from 
                        Virginia
                     to form a new state. The prompt mobilization and dispatch of federal troops helped
                    crystallize western 
                        Virginia
                     sentiment in favor of the Union. The Sixth Regiment arrived on the outskirts of
                    Marietta, 
                        Ohio
                    , on June 1. Fletcher accompanied a detachment on a foray up the Ohio
                    River to counter a rebel show of strength at St. Marys, but most of the regiment plunged
                    ahead and participated in the Battle of Philippi, June 3, often regarded as the first battle of the
                    Civil War. Though the action at Philippi was minor, this Union victory helped to keep western 
                        Virginia
                     loyal to the Union, contributed to the establishment of West 
                        Virginia
                     as a new state, and helped safeguard the important 
                        Baltimore
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     Railroad for use by Union forces. The Sixth Regiment spent the remainder of its time
                    skirmishing in the rugged mountainous area surrounding Philippi and left West 
                        Virginia
                     about July 25, arriving in 
                        Indianapolis
                     later that month. The regiment was mustered out on August 2, 1861.3
            
            Although Fletcher missed the engagement at Philippi because he was among those who were sent on the
                    foray against St. Marys, he soon had opportunity to exhibit great courage and daring. After helping
                    care for the wounded at Philippi, he became a "scout" or spy. On June 27 he
                    volunteered 
                  Smith Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            . According to the father's diary, William decided to volunteer as
                            early as April 17, only three days after the fall of Fort Sumter. Apparently, he began
                            service at Camp Morton on April 18, for under date of April 19, the father recorded in his
                            diary that Billy, as he called his son, had enlisted and "campd on the ground last
                            night." On May 12 the father noted that Billy had become an aide to his colonel but
                            that he seemed rather gloomy. Quite likely it was about this time that Dr. Fletcher
                            completed his twenty days of medical service only to learn that the medical appointment
                            which he expected was not forthcoming. Entries in Calvin Fletcher's diary for the
                            period from May, 1861, through February, 1862, indicate that William B. Fletcher was
                            courageous and daring, perhaps to the point of being reckless. On May 26, the father wrote
                            that he had told his son good-by, expressing the hope that he would not be killed. William
                            is reported as having replied that he would turn up again like a bad penny.
                  
                     3 See Charles H. Ambler and Festus P. Summers, West 
                                    Virginia
                                : The Mountain State (2nd ed., Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1958),
                            195–220, for an over-all view of the political and military situation in West 
                                Virginia
                             in 1861. A brief summary of the military service of the Sixth Regiment of
                            Indiana's three-month volunteers is in Indiana, Report of the Adjutant
                                General of the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1865–1869), II, 6.
               
                    
                    
                  MAP OF FORTIFICATIONS AT LAUREL HILL
                  
                  Fletcher wrote an account of his spying at Laurel Hill which appears in [Merrill], The Soldier of Indiana in the War for the Union (see note 4 below). The
                            map above is on page 43 in that account and was probably drawn by Fletcher.
                to serve as a spy in an attempt to sketch rebel fortifications at Laurel Hill. The journal
                    published here ends abruptly at the time Fletcher was on this mission. He successfully completed the
                    spying expedition to Laurel Hill, however, and presented his findings and sketches to General George
                    B. McClellan.4
            
            
               
                  4 Dr. Fletcher's initial work as a Union scout or spy is
                        described in his journal, pp. 72–75. A more detailed account of his spying against
                        Laurel Hill, also written by Fletcher, is in [Catharine Merrill], The Soldier of
                            Indiana in the War for the Union (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1866–1869), I, 36–44.
            
            
            Spurning the opportunity to return home with his regiment, Fletcher volunteered to continue under the
                    command of General Joseph J. Reynolds and serve in the secret service. On July 30 he was captured by
                    the Confederates near Big Spring, West 
                        Virginia
                    , while on another spying mission.5 He was placed in irons, his life
                    threatened, and he underwent misery and illness. Fletcher made two efforts to escape and was wounded
                    during the second attempt. He was then confined in a local jail at Huntersville, where he suffered
                    much. In early October he arrived at 
                  Richmond,
                            Virginia
               , and through connivance with
                    fellow officers, he was placed at Libby Prison with them. Fletcher was in prison at 
                        Richmond
                     about four months, though during much of this period he performed medical services for
                    fellow Union prisoners at a nearby hospital. During these months at 
                        Richmond
                     his circumstances were greatly improved over what they had been while he was at
                    Huntersville in August and September of 1861. After various efforts had been made to obtain his
                    release, Fletcher was exchanged and arrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     for a reunion with members of his family on Sunday morning, February 2, 1862.6
            
            Though offered an appointment by the governor as an assistant surgeon of the Ninth Regiment in March
                    of 1862,7 Dr. Fletcher never re-entered military service. In 1862 he resumed his
                    medical practice at 
                        Indianapolis
                     and married a Miss Agnes O'Brien. During the war he went to various southern
                    battlefields to help care for sick and wounded Union soldiers, served as a medical examiner for
                    draftees, and for a while had charge of one of the hospitals at Camp Morton which ministered to
                    Confederate prisoners.
            Following the Civil War William B. Fletcher established himself as one of the leading physicians of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . His 
                  
                     5 Fletcher's decision to remain in West 
                                Virginia
                             and continue as a spy is described in his account of further spying, his
                            capture near Big Spring, his imprisonment, etc. as found in ibid., I,
                            102–134. The Calvin Fletcher Diary for the period from June, 1861, to February,
                            1862, is an invaluable source of information about the same events.
                  
                     6 Published sources generally indicate that Dr. Fletcher was exchanged
                            and returned to 
                                Indianapolis
                             in March of 1862. His father's diary, however, tells of the joyful
                            family reunion which occurred on Sunday morning, February 2, 1862, when William and two of
                            his brothers arrived at the family home. One of the brothers was Stephen Keyes Fletcher,
                            then home for a brief leave from military service, whose own Civil War journal was published
                            in the Indiana Magazine of History, LIV (June, 1958), 141–190.
                  
                     7 Indiana, Report of the Adjutant General, II,
                        58.
               
                     postwar medical career included visits to European hospitals,
                    teaching in medical schools, service as superintendent of the Indiana Hospital for the Insane,
                    participation in establishing the Fletcher Sanitarium, election to the Indiana State Senate, where
                    he helped secure the law that created the State Board of Health, and writing of a number of articles
                    and books in his field. In his writings, Dr. Fletcher expressed ideas which were advanced for his
                    day. In fact, he merits special study by a competent medical historian. Dr. Fletcher died at
                            
                  Orlando, Florida
               , April 25, 1907.8
            
            The journal published here is a fragmentary document. Presumably, however, it was written prior to
                    Fletcher's capture at Big Spring, West 
                        Virginia
                    , and therefore has the value of being a kind of "on the spot"
                        account.9 This journal indicates Indiana's response to the outbreak
                    of the Civil War, gives information about the fighting in western 
                        Virginia
                     during the early days of the war, and offers information about Union spying, a
                    neglected facet of the Civil War. Fletcher's sketches of persons and places add interest
                    and value to his journal.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Chap I1
                        
                        For years treason had [been] growing in the Slave holding 
                                        United States
                                     of our union. Treason had been secretly nourished and fed 'til
                                    finally it became such a giant that it 
                              
                                 8 The biographical material in this and the preceding
                                            paragraph is based on references listed in note 1 on p. 43.
                              
                                 9 Entries in the Calvin Fletcher Diary for February
                                            5–14, 1862, indicate that William wrote a synopsis of his prison
                                            experiences soon after his return home and that he also gave public lectures
                                            at 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             and 
                                                Greencastle
                                             about these experiences. Possibly the accounts found in
                                            Merrill, previously mentioned in notes 4 and 5, were written at this time.
                              
                                            
                                    1 Every effort has been made to produce a faithful
                                                copy of the William B. Fletcher Diary, although Fletcher's
                                                handwriting is at times difficult to decipher. Original paragraphing,
                                                spelling, and punctuation have been followed. There are instances in
                                                which it is impossible to determine whether Fletcher intended a given
                                                punctuation mark to be a comma, period, or dash; there are also
                                                instances in which it is not possible to tell whether he intended a
                                                given word to be capitalized. In these doubtful cases, punctuation and
                                                capitalization have been interpreted according to modern usage.
                                            All sketches in Fletcher's diary, except for two small unclear
                                                ones, have been reproduced and appear in the printed text as near to the
                                                place they appear in the original as technically feasible. Since
                                                Fletcher fitted his sketches closely into his text, the following
                                                illustrations are cross sections of the pages of his diary and show both
                                                sketches and their immediately surrounding text. The sketches are
                                                three-fourths actual size.
                                        
                           
                                     begant to speak out among the men who ruled our
                                    country—and at last certain trators seeised public arms and money and
                                    raised troops—and declared the State of S.C. out of the
                                    Union—and an independant State—this was in Nov of 60.2 it was at the time Abraham Linclon [sic] was
                                    declaired Pres of the U.S. this was the excuse for seceding from the Union, Because
                                    Pres Linclon was a man whose party (and Moral) principles were opposed to slavery.
                        At the City of 
                                        Charleston
                                     S.C. the Southern forces were concentrated, and the Soldiers occupying
                                    the forts of the U.S. in that harbor were orderd to evacuate the strong hold. At
                                    this time there were two forts one small, and in a bad position for resistance from
                                    the land side. And the other (Ft Sumpter) [Sumter] was large but unfinished. Majr [Robert] Anderson—who at this time [was]
                                    commander—moved in the night from the smaller (fort Moultre) [Moultrie]
                                    to Ft Sumpter—, this enraged the Southern army—and their
                                    commander orderd them to evacuate the fort, which Maj Anderson refused to
                                    do—untill he recd orders from prs Linclon. hereupon followd a siege of
                                    several months—until the 13th day of Apr
                                    1861—when the Southern rebal grew impatient—and fired upon Ft
                                        Sumpter.3 and then followd two days hard
                                    fighting—and history will keep in mind the details of the combat and of
                                    the manner in which the Southern rebelion grew and how State after State went out of
                                    the Union, and how property of the U.S. was stolen and union men persecuted whipt
                                    burnd & hung.
                        Chap II
                        In the City of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    —as well as over this whole North—the telegrams
                                    announcing the attack on fort Sumpter—caused the most profound feeling of
                                    indignation. Men closed their shops—and thousands of old men walked
                                    solemnly 
                              
                                 2 Although 
                                                South Carolina
                                             took steps toward secession following Lincoln's
                                            election in November, its formal act of secession was not approved until
                                            late December of 1860.
                              
                                 3 The Confederate attack on Fort Sumter began early on
                                            the morning of Friday, April 12, not on April 13, as indicated here and in
                                            the second paragraph of Fletcher's "Chap II."
                                            News of the attack reached 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             via telegraph on the twelfth, and confirmation of the fall of
                                            Fort Sumter arrived, also by telegraph, on Sunday, April 14.
                                            Fletcher's inaccurate chronology as well as various comments in his
                                            journal indicate that he did not normally make entries day by day as events
                                            actually occurred.
                           
                                     with faces pale—and tear wet
                                    cheeks—. And young men felt proud blood of freedom trampled, mounting to
                                    their heads and throbbing in their hearts.
                        Friday the 13th [12th] the news came of the
                                    attack, people heald their breath.
                        Saturday the telegram said—firing is still going on at
                                    Sumpter—her walls are breached—her magazine on
                                    fire—and people walked hurriedly to and fro—some
                                    doubting—some believing, some praying—some swearing.
                        Saturday night a meeting was calld—and thousands of men came
                                    out—the Court House would not hold them—no building was large
                                    enough—and the crowd divided—filling two of the largest Halls
                                    in the City—here speeches were made by men of all politacal
                                    shades—and strong resolutions made for maintaining this union Men Money and horses were freely offerd.
                        Sunday morning found the principle streets full of pale faced [men?] few had slept
                                    that night.
                        The news paper issued extries every few hours—but nothing but sad news
                                    came— "Ft Sumpter is on fire" Maj Anderson prisoner no
                                    body killed."
                        Men who had talked treason the day before—became silent—some
                                    from pure confusion and many from intimations of rope—and
                                    powder—few attended Church that day—and those that did attend
                                    did nothing save think and talk of war. Sunday night the office of the Journal4 was crowded by 8 P M. [with people] waiting for the night
                                    despatches
                        The crowd grew large and mor[e] compact—and the st was full of men
                                    patiently waiting for the news—you might have seen thin faced
                                    clerks—and white cravated ministers of the gospel who after evening
                                    Service had come to hear the next despatch Many a fat Dutchman with his long
                                    pipe—was jammed into the crowd like [a] ham sandwich—Erins
                                    broth of a boy was there—ready to use his Schalalie
                                    there was a two thousand upturned faces. At ten P.M the first despatch of the
                                    evening came—and as the crowd could not wait, it was announced by the
                                    little fat specticled editor of the Journal—that Ft Sumpter had been
                                    abandoned by the 
                              
                                 4 The 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            
                                            Journal was the leading Republican newspaper in Indiana at
                                            this time. Berry R. Sulgrove was its editor, 1854–1864, as is
                                            indicated in B. R. Sulgrove, History of 
                                                    Indianapolis
                                                 and 
                                                    Marion County
                                                , Indiana (
                                                Philadelphia
                                            , 1884), 240–241. Presumbably Sulgrove is the
                                            "specticled editor" Fletcher mentions in the following
                                            paragraph.
                           
                                    
                                    
                                        United States
                                     forces but that Anderson and his men were on board the U.S. War
                                    Steamer." and that Pres Linclon would order out 75,000 Volunteers tomorrow
                                    (Monday)" At this the crowd raised three hearty and loud cheers. Sunday was
                                    forgotten by all—or at least Sabbath hour could not
                                    restrain—the bursting hearts of Union loving men.
                        The following week drums and fifes were playing war notes—and in six days
                                    Camp Morton contained over 6,000 men—the quota from Indiana. Camp Morton
                                    named in honor of Gov [Oliver P.] M.[orton] is the State fare ground—the
                                    men were quartered in the Stalls built for Horses and Cattle. these stalls were made
                                    more convenient by a deck—built in the center—in which 6
                                    men—or a unit were quartered⋆⋆⋆. fires
                                    were built in front of these sheds for cooking5 The first ten
                                     days of camp life every thing was disorder. some men could never be
                                    satisfied some wanted to march on 
                                        Washington
                                     without arms drill or uniform—others were more moderate and
                                    willing to wait.—
                        The good people of Ind, sent their blankets and comforts to the
                                        soldiers—thousands were received.
                        
                           
                              5 Hattie Lou Winslow and Joseph R. H. Moore, Camp Morton, 1861–1865: 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             Prison Camp (Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol.
                                        13, No. 3; 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1940), 237–239, indicate that Camp Morton was located
                                        in the section of 
                                            Indianapolis
                                         now circumscribed by Nineteenth Street, Talbott Avenue,
                                        Twenty-second Street, and Central Avenue. Winslow and Moore also indicate that
                                        this area was the site for the state fair during the late 1850's. It
                                        was variously known as Henderson's Grove, Otis1
                                        Grove, and Morton Place. Ibid., 238, 376. Conditions at Camp
                                        Morton during the early months of the Civil War are described in ibid., 237–250.
                        
                        
                        In a few weeks the Camp was under good order— Col [Lewis] Wallace had
                                    worked long enough in the office of Adjutant General—to pick out the best
                                    drilled companies in the state—and formed the 11th
                                    Reg. then became Col of the same—and marched of[f] to Evensville. Col
                                    [Ebenezer] Dumont became Col of the 7th Col [Robert H.] Milroy
                                    of the 9th Col [William P.] 
                                        Benton
                                     of the 8th Col [Mahlon D.] Manson of the 10th and Col [Thomas T.] Crittenden of the 66
                        
                        These were the Regiments first call[ed] into service from the State of Indiana
                        Chap III.
                        Ye Writer—skipeth 20 days in which he serviced as hospital
                                    Surgeon—under the promise of an appointment from ye Gov— which
                                    he did not get,—and was thus taught the folly of putting his trust in
                                    Gov's—
                        Ye Writer is sworn into the 6th Regiment as Fife
                                    Major—that being the only available place in this Regiment—and
                                    becomes a Non Com Staff-Officer and liveth close to Ye Col.7
                        
                        Ye Fife Major describeth Ye Col. Crittenden.
                        T. T. Crittenden is a little man as to highth—but a large man in
                                    width—he looks like Falstaff—his hair dark inclined to be a
                                    little grey on the under edge—he has a heavy moustache and beard his lips
                                    well formed—his head round 
                              
                                 6 See Indiana, Report of the Adjutant
                                                General of the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1865–1869), II, 27, 7, 17, 12, 22, 2, for the full
                                            names and dates of appointment of these colonels of the first six regiments
                                            which Indiana supplied for the Civil War. Since Indiana had furnished five
                                            regiments for the Mexican War, 1846–1848, it was decided to
                                            number Indiana's first regiment for the Civil War the Sixth
                                            Regiment, etc. Thus the Sixth Regiment, the one in which Fletcher served,
                                            was actually the first Civil War regiment. The six regiments which Fletcher
                                            mentions here comprised Indiana's original three-month volunteers.
                              
                                 7
                                            Ibid., IV, 2, lists William B. Fletcher among the
                                            regimental noncommissioned staff as a fife major and gives April 27, 1861,
                                            as the date he was mustered in. [Catharine Merrill], The
                                                Soldier of Indiana in the War for the Union (2 vols., 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1866–1869), I, 29–30, includes an
                                            obvious reference to Fletcher when she writes: "As fife-major in
                                            the Sixth went an unmusical young physician who had performed the duties of
                                            surgeon in camp, and had expected the position of assistant-surgeon in the
                                            field. But while he was practising in the hospital, somebody else practised
                                            in the Governor's mansion and obtained the place. Disappointed, but
                                            with undampened resolution, he applied to each regiment for admission as
                                            private, without being able to find a single vacancy. At last Colonel
                                            Crittenden kindly discovered that the Sixth was in need of a fife-major,
                                            and, without a very scrutinizing examination, introduced the applicant to
                                            the situation. The talents of the young doctor soon made his services in
                                            other quarters not only acceptable but needful, and he had but one march at
                                            the head of his regiment as fife-major."
                           
                                     and well made his voice clear—and his
                                    dark eye always has a merry twinkle he speaks kindly to all—his men know
                                    him—as a kind firm man. he is about 37 years
                                    old—he roughed it in 
                                        Texas
                                     when he was 15—served as Lieut—in the
                                    U.S.A.—in Mexico and was most noted for his "bush whack
                                    fighting" of which he was very fond—he is a man of wealth and
                                    education—lives at 
                                        Madison
                                     Ind.8 The Fife Major becomes a non com Staff
                                    Officer and lives in the 6th Regt head quarters—from
                                    his lack of musical knowledge and inclination he assumes the duties of private
                                    secratary to the Colonel and the Colonel having no private work for his secratary
                                    the fife major spends his time learning the sword and musket exercise—and
                                    smokes his pipe—and is no longer called Fife Major but "Pipe
                                    Major" The staff Mess is composed of the Col—and Lieut Col Major
                                    and Adjutant Sargent Maj Q. M. Sarg. and Pipe Major and the drum Major sometimes9
                        
                        
                        
                           
                              8
                                        Ibid., I, 24–25, gives a biographical sketch of
                                        Colonel Crittenden.
                           
                                        
                                 9 The persons listed here are: Colonel Thomas T.
                                            Crittenden, Lieutenant Colonel Hiram Prather, Major Gerber, Adjutant George
                                            W. Wiley, Sergeant Major Charles L. Holstein, Quartermaster Sergeant Horace
                                            Bell, "Pipe Major" Fletcher, and Drum Major John Beoler.
                                            Indiana, Report of the Adjutant General, II, 2, and IV, 2.
                                        Interestingly enough neither Surgeon Charles Schüssler nor
                                            Assistant Surgeon John W. Davis are included in Fletcher's list of
                                            officers of the Sixth Regiment, nor does he mention either of them in his
                                            journal. Both, however, are listed in ibid., II, 2. Some
                                            clue about the reason for Fletcher's not being appointed a medical
                                            officer may be in the fact that he was an 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             man in a southern Indiana regiment. The regiment's
                                            officers, therefore, were from either 
                                                Madison
                                             or 
                                                North Vernon
                                            , but especially 
                                                Madison
                                            . Surgeon Schüssler was from 
                                                Madison
                                            . A very favorable estimate of Schüssler appears in
                                            A. J. Grayson, History of the Sixth Indiana Regiment in the
                                                Three Months' Campaign in Western 
                                                    Virginia
                                                
                                  ([
                                                Madison
                                            , Ind., 1875?]), 50.
                                    
                        
                        
                        Lieut Col [Hiram] Prather—is a good looking old man—with white
                                    beard & moustache—both long and full—he is a man of
                                    the old school—raised in the woods—through hardships;
                                    —the father of 15 children—a man who has seen service in
                                    Mexico he never swears drinks nor gets angry—said he never used profane
                                    language in his life or ever drank, he insists upon asking a blessing at the
                                    table—and keeping morality in the
                                    camp⋆⋆⋆ he is about 60 years old and has two sons
                                    in the 6th Reg one as Lieut.10
                        
                        
                        June 6th Camp Fletcher—
                        Webster Taylor Co Va.11
                        
                        On the 29th of May—the order came to Col
                                    Crittenden—that we should be ready to march at 9 P.M.
                        The days had been growing longer and hotter at Camp Morton, and the boys were getting
                                    restive under their hard drills and strict discipline. At the announcement of
                                    "Marching Orders" it seemd as if the [sic] each
                                    man was suddenly struck with insane excitement. hats were thrown in
                                    air—cheer upon cheer given—officers were carried upon the
                                        
                              
                                 10 For an interesting sketch on Prather, see ibid., 51. According to Grayson, Prather had seven sons
                                            who served with him in the Civil War, and the combined service of father and
                                            sons totaled eighteen years.
                              
                                 11 The insertion of "June 6th Camp Fletcher—Webster Taylor Co Va." followed
                                            immediately by comment about events of May 29 illustrates the observation in
                                            footnote 3 that Fletcher did not ordinarily write his journal on a
                                            day-by-day basis.
                           
                                     shoulde[rs] of the men—even old Col
                                    P. was insane enough to attempt an insane speech—and the Adjutant half
                                    tight did the same thing
                        But things soon changed, men were packing up their extra clothing to send
                                    home—and cooking extra rations—cleaning guns &c
                        At 9 P.M. we were informed that we would not go till 6 A.M. (of the 30th) but we were at work all night—getting our baggage ready to
                                    send to the depot by the waggons
                        At 2 P.M. we were calld into line—the night was beautiful—and
                                    star-packed, and our camp fires were dieing into the last few flickering
                                    flames—20 rounds of carterge wer[e] distributed to each man and at 3 AM.
                                    we were ready to march—while the band played a part of the plantive march
                                    in the "Gentle Shepard" the F Major—took a stroal along
                                    the now vacant sheads wher[e] we had campt so long—the old Cow
                                    stalls—were silent—here and there an old hat was throw[n] or a
                                    pair of breeches hung.
                        The F Major cast his eyes over the whole camp—moon lit—but
                                    hushed in sleep except the sentinels who marched slowly by;
                        It was almost 4 A.M. May 30th before the
                                    command—March! was given—and day was blooming in the east. We
                                    marched down towards the sleeping city
                        Marching down Meridian St the F. Maj felt almost sad—. the band was
                                    playing "Then You'll remember me"—when he past
                                    his fathers house; no one was moving—the shutters were
                                    shut—and the F. Maj. could see no kind face or eyes suffused with tears;
                                    a few persons were calld from their beds—by the tramp of the
                                    soldiers.—or the music—these persons looked quietly at us, and
                                    on we past. At the Depot a few persons were gatherd—by curiosity to
                                    "see the soldiers go" it was yet early, not 6
                                    o'clock—and the F. Maj. looked around for a resting
                                    place—and a breakfast—
                        The break fast was good—and not forgotten—for it was eaten with
                                    a brother—in the very room where he first remembered to have [eaten?].
                        We were soon on the cars—a few more people had collected—and
                                    some handed a few little flowers—to the F Maj for which they received his
                                    hearts blessing—. The cars moved—and old scenes and loved
                                    faces and dear memories vanished.
                        The cars were moving slowly all day—through the flat lands of
                                    Indiana—the fields were green the woods deep and  dark—but flat flat flat farmers looked at us
                                    as we flu past—little boys cheerd, women looked cross—(some
                                    sad.) all through flat Ind. except at two places—where some poor women
                                    had sent a son to the army—and some sweet faced girl a
                                    lover—here we saw tears
                        As ye Pipe Major—came Eastward he saw finer farms—and
                                    pleasanter villages—
                        At 
                                        Lawrenceburg
                                    , we rooled into a beautiful scene—where the 
                                        Ohio
                                     winds between green hills and the fine little city on its banks. here
                                    two steamboats came too and gave a salute the boys cheerd hugely at sight of the
                                        Ohio River—whe[re] many of them had homes
                        At Cincinnatia we arrived at 4 P.M. where a company [of] mounted men met
                                    us—the band played whil[e] we marched throu the crowded sts. Never did
                                    soldiers feel more proud than did the Hoosier boys of the 6th
                                    Reg Ind Vol when 
                                        Ohio
                                     gives such hearty welcome—thousands of people waved their
                                    hats and handkerchifs
                        Some ladies smiled—and waved the delicate hand galey others buried their
                                    faces in their hands—or wished us God Speed—with faces pale.
                        Through Cincinnatia—we were marched to Camp Dennison Hammilton Co. where
                                    we arrived at 7 [6?] PM amid the cheers of the 
                                        Ohio
                                     troops— We continually heard—the
                                    words—"Bully boys" "fine fellows"
                                    What big men"
                        We were lead by the Qr Master to the valley of the little Miammi—when
                                    grumbling and tired the men found supper and beds as best they might.
                        Ye P.M (.or FM) was very weary as the long march and fatigue of the day
                                    before—would make any one.
                        So he threw down his knapsack and pulld off his dusty uneform and made a plung[e]
                                    into the cool waters of the little Miami—then came out smoked his pipe
                                    and thought 
                                     of—–various matters then
                                    wrapt his blanket around him—a silk blanket—upon an 
                                        India
                                     rubber cover—and was soon fast asleep.
                        May 31st We started from Camp Dennison over the Marietta R.R. the
                                    days journey was one continual ovation the ladies brought flowers—and
                                    more practicle gifts of eadables—the girls didnt complain if you chanced
                                    to kiss them. Every body wished us success—and bade us tearful good bye
                                    particularly were we received at Chilicothie—and at night in the little
                                    town of 
                                        Athens
                                    —where each man had all he could eat—and enough
                                    for one day—over—
                        Journeying on—we found ourselves on a rainy morning June 1st at the little town of Harmer—which is connected with
                                    Marrietta by a bridge, here we were furnished with bread, milk, ham—eggs
                                    &c by the good people.
                        At 9 AM we [have?] to start for Parkersburg Va. Just as the train was ready to move
                                    the F.M. received orders to remain with Companies H & K—as there
                                    was a little job for them to do—up the river.
                        H and K—The detachment were under the command of Major [John]
                                    Gerber.— Sargent Maj Holistin [Charles L. Holstein?]—was also
                                    to go with us. Comp. H. was quartered in a Hall over the old Market House 
                                     The Committee was to furnish us a transport to
                                    St Maries—before 12 M. in the mean time—the Citizins the
                                    ladies particularly entertained us with a sumptious dinner—
                        One gentleman proposed that as we had no "fille de Regemant" we
                                    could chose one at Harmer— Ye F.M. was detailed to make the selection
                                    when he chose Miss Stratton—who he knew must be a Yankee—and a
                                    school teacher with Miss S he was quite taken— She was beautiful and
                                    intelligent—. At 4 PM our transport through the neglig[e]nce of the
                                    Committee had not arrived and our Maj chartered the Silver Heels a little steamer to
                                    take us up.
                        
                        At five P.M. all the little vill[a]ge turned out to see us off. the canon
                                    fired—the ladies waved their handkiechef—and the men cheerd
                                    till our little steamer was out of sight—the most beautiful ride the F.M.
                                    ever had was up that beautiful river—that quiet evening the 1st day of June—
                        The banks of the 
                                        Ohio
                                     were lovely. 
                                        Ohio
                                     on one side—and the Old Dominion on the other Our men had
                                    loaded their guns and were waiting for the town of St Mary's—We
                                    arrived within a mile of the place—and quietly lay to the 
                                        Ohio
                                     shoar—while our spy wen[t] in a skift to the 
                                        Va.
                                     side— While we were waiting here—for the return
                                    of our spy, some Union men of St M. came on board—and informd us that it
                                    was too late—the birds—150 had flown.—and no arms
                                    were at St M. at about 10 our spy returned, and informd us the same. We landed at
                                    the town however—quietly—the FM. was the first on the
                                    landing—and ran up the hill—wher[e] he met 3 drunken
                                    sesessionests—who when they saw 150 bayonets gleaming in the
                                    starlight—took heels and run.
                        
                        The men were disappointed at having no fight—so after a march through the
                                    town—and warning disloyal citizens we came back to the Silver Heels.12 The Pipe Major roold up in his blanket on the flat boat which
                                    was attached to the Steamer—was soon asleep—and when his eyes
                                    opened—the sun was shining full in his face—at Parkersburg Va.
                                    here orders had been left by our Col, to go into camp—with Co A.
                        Parkersburg was a dead little city at the Mouth of the little Kanawa [Kanawha] two
                                    miles above Blanerhassets island.13
                        
                        Camp Baldwin was at the top of a high hill which over looked the town
                        Nothing of importance occured at Camp Baldwin
                        
                        
                           
                              12 Grayson, History of the Sixth Indiana
                                            Regiment, 19, describes the foray against St.
                                        Ma⋆⋆⋆ys: "Company H, Capt. Jones, and
                                        Company K, Capt. Bachman, under command of Major John Gerber, assisted by
                                        Sergeant Major C. L. Holstein and Fife-Major W. B. Fletcher, were detached from
                                        the regiment, while we remained near Marietta, for the purpose of looking after
                                        a reported gathering of rebels at the town of St. Mary's, W. Va., on
                                        the Ohio River, 16 miles above Marietta. The detachment
                                        went up to that place, but the rebels had received information of their approach
                                        and evacuated, moving off into the interior, and our soldiers were very much
                                        disappointed in not getting a shot at them before they got away."
                           
                              13 Blennerhasset's Island was used by Aaron Burr
                                        as a base of operation for his expe⋆⋆⋆dition of
                                        1805 down the Ohio and Mississippi
                                        rivers, an action which ⋆⋆⋆resulted
                                        in his trial for treason.
                        
                        
                        June 3d. On Monday we heard that our Reg had had a fight a[t]
                                    Phillipi which made us feel bad that we were not ther[e].14
                        
                        June 4 Tusday night we received orders to leave Parkersburg and on Wednesday morning
                                    June 5th we took the cars for Grafton.
                        Our ride to Grafton.
                        It had been raining for two or three nights and the streets were muddy, and the river
                                    rushing on madly. at 10 we were all in the box cars—tumbled in like
                                    cattle except we had straw to lie on.
                        As we were about getti[ng] on the cars a lady was brought down—who wished
                                    very much to go with us as far as Grafton— She was the wife of Judge
                                    Thompson of Wheeling—who is a good Union man—Who had two sons
                                    in the sesession army it is the mothers desir[e] to go to the rebel camp and induce
                                    them to return. The father wrote to Col Kelly15—if my
                                    sons are taken "Shoot them—pray dont hang them"
                        On the platform of the depot one of the men in Co A—Sang the
                                    "Star Spangled banner" with much feeling and the whole Company
                                    filld the Chorus—the train at last started the usual cheers were
                                    given—and we were rooling along among the Green
                                    hills of Va.
                        We had gone about 10 miles when the whistle sounded—and the train began to
                                    back—and we learned that the hand car men had brought word that a bridge
                                    over "goose Creek" had broken down during the night and that we
                                    must return to Parkersburg for timber and carpenters—to rebuild the 
                              
                                 14 Indiana, Report of the Adjutant
                                                General, II, 6, includes the following statement on the military
                                            service of the Sixth Regiment: "On the 30th of May the Regiment
                                            left 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , via 
                                                Cincinnati
                                             and Parkersburgh, for the scene of conflict in Western 
                                                Virginia
                                             being first fully armed, equipped and clothed. Arriving at
                                            Webster on the 2d of June, it was marched, with other troops, the same
                                            night, through a drenching rain, a distance of fourteen miles, and on the
                                            morning of the 3d of June took part in the first battle of the war, at
                                            Philippi." Although often regarded as the initial Union victory of
                                            the Civil War, the action at Philippi was minor.
                              
                                 15 Colonel Benjamin F. Kelley was largely responsible
                                            for the organization of the First West 
                                                Virginia
                                             Volunteer Infantry. He planned the action at Philippi and
                                            commanded one of the columns. Kelley was wounded in this action but
                                            recovered and became a brigadier general who served mainly in the West 
                                                Virginia
                                             area during the war. Charles H. Ambler and Festus P. Summers,
                                                West 
                                                    Virginia
                                                : The Mountain State (2nd ed., Englewood Cliffs, N.J.,
                                            1958), 211; Grayson, History of the Sixth Indiana
                                            Regiment, 22–23.
                           
                                     bridge. We of course were much disappointed at
                                    this delay for we had hoped to be in Grafton that night— We had an idea
                                    that our detachment would not have an opertunity to fight—and the news of
                                    the battle at Philippi had whetted our appetites for that article.
                        While the bridge builders wer[e] getting their timbers—a man brought word
                                    to Capt [Philemon P.] Baldwin16 that he had discoverd a shop
                                    down by the river—which had the doors and windows naild down and
                                    bared—and it was reported that Guns—and other Sesession
                                    impliments were ther[e] hid—
                        
                        With much excitment three brave men were selected to charge upon the
                                    house—lead by Capt B. One of the braves was the Pipe Major—one
                                    a professional circus actor—lock picker gambler &c who could
                                    boast of many like accomplishments. the other was a strong man of no marked
                                    peculiarties After examining the out side—we came to the conclusion that
                                    something was "wrong about that house." "Something
                                    rotton" remarked the P.M. "Yes ill [I'll] be darned if
                                    there aint" said the Capt—the Stairs were mounted and the boards
                                        
                              
                                 16 Captain of Company A, Sixth Regiment. Indiana, Report of the Adjutant General, II, 3.
                           
                                     niald across the windows soon
                                    removed—the window drawn out with much excitement—for we could
                                    now see mysterious boxes pild within
                        The Capt and the Professional Gent were much excited and both determined to be in
                                    first—so a tussel insued which resulted in both tumbling in—on
                                    a greasy floor—and soon wer[e] followed by the P.M. and the other
                                    man— The mysterious looking boxes turn out to be boxes of soap and
                                    candles the innocent articles of Christanity the air was  tainted with the
                                    odor of murren tallow. So after a thurough search each pocketed a cake of soap to
                                    wash away this memory of the Soap factory charge—and left for the
                                    cars—which were now ready to start— All day we rooled through
                                    a picturesque land—beautiful for flocks and heards—hills full
                                    of milk—and vallies rich with honey— We plungd through deep
                                    cuts and round graceful curves and under deep mountain tunnels—at last we
                                    came just at sun set to the broken bridge at Goose Creek. Where we found two
                                    Companies of O.V.M.17 in camp—. it was a beautiful
                                    place the mountains rose on either side coverd with brave old trees and gigantic
                                    ledg[e]s—before them a deep valley wher[e] Goose Creek winds its way in
                                    the most crooked [manor?]—crooked and curving away along the line of the
                                    rail road till it is spaned by 23 bridges—
                        
                           
                              17 Presumably 
                                            Ohio
                                         Volunteer Militia.
                        
                        
                        The 
                                        Ohio
                                     Buckeyes and Ind Hoos'rs were mutually glad to
                                    meet—some found friends—all were curious to know where we were
                                    from—what kind [of] guns we had—how long we were
                                    "in"—for a half hour the boys would talk and the
                                    officers were planing to get us over— The Pipe Major felt very
                                    weary—and hungry—asking a Buckeye for something to eat he
                                    handed the F.M. a loaf of bread and a handful of sugar—and the[n] invited
                                    him—one side to ask a blessing  from his
                                    canteen—means to drink adulterated alcohol from an india ruber bag. It
                                    was now quite dark—the whippor-will—could be heard from the
                                    valley and along the mountain side—
                        There was but one way to cross or rather to get to the train of cars which were on
                                    the other side, and that was by marching $1/4 mile round the side of the
                                    mountain by a little by path—. The F.M. started round with his
                                    knapsack—the mountain path was rough and the night dark—he
                                    first slipt down in the mud—next stumbled over the side of the path and
                                    rooled some 20 ft down among the bushes—which protected him from going on
                                    down the precipis into the foaming creek below—next he lost his way and
                                    gave up almost, feeling too extremely weary to step further—after resting
                                    an hour 
                                    
                                     he stragled on—falling into a little
                                    branch and getting thoroughly wet and at last making the train on the other
                                    side—and was soon sound asleep. Next morning we found that the men had
                                    succeeded through the night in bringing over all the tents stores horses
                                    &c—and that we were ready to move—away we
                                    flew—under more tunnels—and through deeper cuts—at
                                    last we were drawing near Grafton. At every little town the boys were kindly
                                    treated—bread and butter—milk &c were freely given by
                                    the Union ladies.
                        Through the quiet old town of Clarksburg—we receivd lively demonstration
                                    of joy from the people
                        At Flemington many pretty girls came down to the cars—drest in white and
                                    wearing very neat Union colord aprons—they gave boquets of flowers to the
                                    soldiers—and seemd quite free and cordial in their good wishes. Just as
                                    the cars were about le[a]ving the F.M. asked a blackeyed pretty girl—for
                                    her Union apron—which she at once pulld off and handed him—the
                                    design was original—and very tastefully made up—Ye F.M. keeps
                                    the apron as a memento—the name written very nicely in one corner is
                                    "Abbie Fleming"
                        "Flemington" "Taylor Co 
                                        Va.
                                    "
                        
                        The apron has one large stare [star] in the center of the field which is a Union
                                    shild the star is divided and upon one part of the star is written "Eastern
                                    Va—the other detached part—"Western 
                                        Va.
                                    "
                        
                        6th June At four P.M. we arrived at Webster—where we
                                    found some of our regiment—and learned that Col C. [Crittenden] had just
                                    gone on to Grafton—having just returned from Philippi— At 5 PM
                                    we came to the little town of Grafton—the crossing of the B & O
                                    RR with the Wheeling & Parkersburg road. here we fou[n]d Co C. and Gen
                                    [Thomas A.] Morris18 and Staff. We were all glad to meet once
                                    more—and learn the adventures of each since our detachment at Harmer.
                        The same night 3 companies were orderd back to Philippi—while the
                                    remainder took possession of an old house—at Fetterman near the river.
                        7th June. We went into Camp on a most beautiful plain on the top
                                    of a ridge overlooking Grafton—this was the prettiest camp ground yet
                                    occupied by our troops—
                        Nothing of interest occured taking a few sesessionests now and then swearing the[m]
                                    in—scouting &c occupied the time
                        [June] 8 The 
                                        Ohio
                                     artilry encamp beside us— Capt Baldwin is detached to
                                    Webster— Lieut Col Prather is in command of that place.
                        [June] 9th Sundy We went with Capt [Hagerman] Tripp19 on a scout—over by Prunty town We (20 of us)—
                                    road hard well armed through a beautiful country—we scared the
                                    natives—and got a good supper—advised two sesessionst to come
                                    to head quarters and take the oath of allegance to U.S. and then road back to camp
                        [June] 10th Drilling goes on in camp—the natives come
                                    in and brin[g] eggs milk butter chickens & We are not well and finally go to
                                    Webster with Capt Baldwin
                        [June] 12 Webster is a dull little place on the Parkers-burg R.R.—it was
                                    built of little frame houses—and a few stables—where a few
                                    women and children now live husbands gone to the Sesession army— Plenty
                                    of good apple brandy to drink.
                        [June] 13th We received a despatch from Gen. Morris—
                                    saying Look out for a man calling himself Arnett—supposed to be going to 
                                        Richmond
                                     with dispatches— Col Crittenden 
                              
                                 18 The Sixth through the Eleventh regiments, as
                                            explained in note 6, comprised Indiana's quota of three-month men
                                            at the beginning of the Civil War. These six regiments constituted the First
                                            Brigade, Indiana Volunteers, under the command of Brigadier General Thomas
                                            A. Morris. Indiana, Report of the Adjutant General, I, 9.
                              
                                 19 Captain of Company G, Sixth Regiment. Ibid., II, 5.
                           
                                     Capt Baldwin Capt [Alois O.] Bachman20 Ye Pipe Major and two privates (After we had stationed men at
                                    various points) took car and went to Bridgeport— Here we sent out our two
                                    privates—to look for Arnett while Bachman went to the Bar room. Capt
                                    Baldwin and Ye Pipe Major went down to a mill—wher[e] on[e] Capt Chapin
                                    lived—who was a noted Sesessionest. as we walked up to the hill we saw
                                    him talking with another man—who walked away as we
                                    approached.— Capt Chapin turned pale when he learned that we came to
                                    arrest him—but wished to argue the matter—which he was not
                                    allowed—
                        When we returned to Bridgeport we found our two men had arrested Mr
                                    Arnett—and were just brin[g]ing him in. he drove up to the door of the
                                    little Tavern—in a new  coverd buggy—and a fine
                                    horse—he is a large man with red hair—freckled face usually
                                    red—but now rather white—he tried to appier unconcerned shook
                                    hands with the Col—and talked—freely—after
                                    dinner—we took him to a private room an[d] searched him from head to foot
                                    but found no papers except business letters to 
                                        Richmond
                                    . We sent him on to Clarksburg—in care of Orderly Sergant
                                        Williams21—to telegraph Gen Morris the result of
                                    the Capture.
                        We heard that Ex Gov [Joseph] Jo[h]nson22 had arrived home the
                                    night before—and as he is a Col of the rebel army it was very desireable
                                    to capture him.
                        Col C. orderd twelve men stationed round the field—and Capt B. &
                                    B. and Fife Major—under ordr of Col C. approached the fine old Count[r]y
                                    Mans[i]on of the Ex Gov 
                              
                                 20 Captain of Company K, Sixth Regiment. Ibid., II, 6.
                              
                                 21 Probably First Sergeant William H. Williams,
                                            Company A, Sixth Regiment. Ibid., IV, 2.
                              
                                 22 Presumably Joseph Johnson, who was governor of 
                                                Virginia
                                             in the 1850's.
                           
                                    
                                     Col C. rang the bell—and the door was opened by a young darky,
                                    at the same time a lady came into the hall and asked us in to the parlor—
                        "Is Gov Jonsn at home"? said Col C. "No sir he is
                                    not" Is his son in"? said the Col. Yes Sir, walk in and I will
                                    send him" the son came and Col C announcd the object of the visit and
                                    orderd us to search the house— Just as we stept into the hall the
                                    daughter stept before us white and trembling with rage and stammering with
                                    indignation. "Gentlemen, if you are such—you will not search
                                    this house—it is a private famly and you are intruding and insulting my
                                    Father and his daughter— You have no right to do it and I forbid
                                    it—I told you the truth my father is not here".
                        
                        
                        Col C. was in the parlor—Capt Bachman—and the F.M. stood back
                                    looking at the gallant Capt Baldwin who in his confusion was bowing and blushing a
                                    retreat. We did not find Col Jonson and returned to the town. the Fife Major
                                    swearing for one, never to go hunting through peoples houses when the ladies are at
                                    home. No wonder Miss Jonson was so insulted—for the man we arrested in
                                    the morning was her lover—(Capt. Chapin)
                        We took the cars and landed at Clarksburg—where we found orders to keep
                                    Arnett—and bring him to Grafton.
                        We arrived at the Old fashoned Tavern at 5 P.M. Glad to throw of[f] our swords and
                                    revolvers—Coats and boots—refresh our selves with an old 
                                        Va.
                                     Mint Julip—and were carefuly attended by
                                    "Samson" the bigest blackest and politest of niggers here we made
                                    ourselves comfortable—by a good  supper—and the[n]
                                    took a stroll round the beautiful old town—. in the evening we were calld
                                    upon by some of the Union men who sat a long time talked dryly and at last drank a
                                    great deal of whiskey and went to bed. The next day we went back to Grafton.
                        June 16. The Fife Major was at Webster. Col C. came over—with Lieut
                                    [Josiah H.] Andrews and Senitor Shanks23—of the
                                    eleventh district Ind (now on his way to 
                                        Washington
                                    .) and were going over to Philippi— The Senitor found it hard
                                    work to find a horse. Never was man better named 
                              
                                 23 John Peter Cleaver Shanks was born a Virginian but
                                            practiced law in Indiana. He was elected to Congress as Republican
                                            representative from Indiana, 1861–1863, and 1867–1875.
                                            Shanks also served the Union army as an officer during the Civil War. Biographical Directory of the American Congress,
                                                1774–1949 (
                                                Washington
                                            , 1950), 1799.
                           
                                     for he was a tall man booney and
                                    young—his face was long and ugly his arms long and dangling his legs very
                                    long and swingey he wore a linnen coat—and a black felt
                                    hat—his neck was crane like—near his left shoulder protruded
                                    the handle of a bowie knife which must have been 18 inches long his whiskers were
                                    redish his hair sandy. At length  the Senit[or] got a horse—a
                                    long lame horse and a saddle—an old one and a broken
                                    bridle with blinds We mounted—and lo the Senitors saddlegirth was broken
                                    as was also the styrup strap—but the Senitor was a good
                                    rider—yes a graceful one. Our journey was a pleasant
                                    one—sometimes overtaking soldiers who were wear[i]ly tramping onward
                                    toward the town of Phillipi 
                                     a soldier was sitting by the road
                                    side—with a sore foot—the Senitor Shanks pulld a fine pocket
                                    handkerchief from his brest and magnamiously threw it down to the tired fellow
                                    saying "tie it up with this"
                        We arrived at Philippi at 2 P.M. where all the boys of our detachment were glad to
                                    see us— The Senitor and I dined with Capt [Thomas J.] Harrison.24
                        
                        We found the 
                                        Ohio
                                     boys throwing up barricades—
                        The Col—and F.M. paid off the men of the detachment 5 doller
                                    each—an advance—on their pay— At night Col C and
                                    F.M. slept together at Nighkirks and in the morning we found the bridges and roads
                                    had been barricaded in the night
                        [June] 17th The Fife Major is detached for medical
                                    duties—to the detachment at Philippi—
                        Philippi.
                        The town of Philippi is beautifuly situated on the valey river [the Tygart] locked in
                                    by hills—the county seat of Barbour Co. Western Va
                        The rebels had been driven from Grafton to Webster five miles distant—and
                                    they moved from Webster 12 miles further to Philippi—here they were in
                                    camp about 1500—when they were attacked by the Fed[e]ral
                                    forces—
                        It had been a stormy Sunday and night came in—with a tornado—
                                    The 6th Ind Reg had traveld two days in box cars on short
                                    fare—when they arrived at Webster it was near night—orders
                                    came to march on Philippi—although the men were weary, the prospect of
                                    [a] fight stimulated them—and with gallant Col Crittenden walking before
                                    them—they marched that twelve miles—on that black and stormy
                                    night—and morning—just day brake found them on the top of the
                                    high hill—at the north of and overlooking the town.
                        The 
                                        Ohio
                                     artilry was at their side—at this moment—an old
                                    woman from a neighboring farm house fired a pistol—which was repeeted by
                                    the Sentinels of the rebel camp—which now becomes a lively
                                    scene— The gunner sees a man in the town below enter a
                                    stable—which is one and a half miles off and sights his gun upon
                                    him—fires—and a small hole made by the six pounder tells the
                                    acurate sight of the artilrist and poor Mr Hanger who had far better have been
                                    hung—loses a leg
                        
                           
                              24 Captain of Company D, Sixth Regiment. Indiana, Report of the Adjutant General, II, 3.
                        
                        
                        Now the camp is in confusion; the 6th Reg—throw of[f]
                                    their knapsacks and rush like a torrent down the steep hill clearing fences and
                                    every thing in their way Col C ever in front [of] them.
                        
                        The rebels fly—some without their clothing on, others partly
                                    drest— The 7th and 9th Regts and
                                    the Va. and 
                                        Ohio
                                     troops are marching down ev[er]y road and hill—but a little
                                    too late—the rebels flee by an unguarded road—about 30 are
                                    killd as many captured—beside 30 horses 400 stand of arms much
                                    provision—and forage Thus Philippi was taken and the rebels
                                    disgraced—[retreat?] to Beverly the troops behaved well—very
                                    little stealing was done when we compare it with other armies under the same
                                    circumstances
                        
                        
                        June 20th Tuesday night Capt Tripp came with his scouts to
                                    Philippi Maj Garber took command and invited the acting asst. Sug'n.
                                    [Surgeon] to go with them the night was beautiful— We rode slowly and
                                    silently to within two miles of the rebel camp at 
                                        Beelington
                                     [Belington], 12 miles south of Philippi—here we drove in the
                                    pickets of the enimy—and prepared to charge on their camp We had 60
                                    men—When the order to charge came many of the men trembled there in the
                                    pale moonlight on the top of that hill for we supposed the enemy thick on each side
                                    of the way We felt a little chilling—and a dryness of the mouth till we
                                    had flounderd along among the frightend men and horses a quarter of a mild
                                    [mile?]—when the enimy fired upon our advance guard.
                        Then we felt exilerated— Hashesh Chloroform or Eather never made us feel
                                    more wildly exilerated—we plunged forward—and soon routed the
                                    Enimy—and then slowly returned home— We must say but six men
                                    cha[r]ged for Capt Tripp—though charged afterward by some with cowardice
                                    was cool—and would not risk his men further—his slowness was
                                    caution—not fear.
                        Two of our men at the first fire turned toward Philippi and did not stop till they
                                    had told to the camp—that we were all slaughtered and none left but them
                                    to tell the story.
                        When we got back every man was waiting on his arms for our return—and a
                                    shout went up—when we returned all well—and only two horses
                                    wounded slightly.
                        [June] 21 We were orderd to head qr to report—
                        [June] 2725 On the 27th June a man was wanted
                                    to visit the rebel camp to make a reconisince and draw a plan of the fortifications.
                                    The F. Major offered his serveses—and finally it was decided he should
                                    go— He left the head Qr at 9 P.M. Thursday. With a rough but bright
                                    speciman of Verginia country man as a guide—Dehart Wilson by name. Col
                                    Crittenden furnished horses for us to ride as far as Buchanon [Buckhannon]
                                    bridge— The Guide and Spy were both drest like very ordinary farmers
                        At Buchanon bridge we left our horses with the man who came to take them back
                        
                           
                              25 [Merrill], The Soldier of Indiana in the
                                            War for the Union, I, 36–44, gives a different and more
                                        detailed version of the experiences that are described in the remainder of the
                                        journal. The version in Merrill begins with events of June 27.
                                        It is entitled "Scouting" and is noted as being a
                                        "NARRATIVE OF W. B. F.," who is doubtlessly William B.
                                        Fletcher.
                        
                        
                        We marched on—over a good pike for four miles quick time without talking
                                    the moon shining brightly—lighting up the gloomy arches of the forest.
                        
                        We walked carefully lest we should arouse the scouts of the enimy who frequent[l]y
                                    come out on this road. We now left the road and took across the farms to the
                                    west—the heavy dew on the leaves making us thoroughly wet. Soon we struck
                                    a little path in the woods where we found tracks of horses—just made
                                    Every few moments we listened to hear their step but could not— Nothing
                                    was said during the march till near morning when the guide showed signs of
                                    confusion—and at last confessed that we were out of the course some five
                                    miles. We then turned to the east and journeyed [till?] day break when we came to a
                                    little farm house and waking up the farmer he gave us the direction to find the path
                                    leading to "Coon Carpenters"— We now went South over
                                    the most difficult rocky hills—and thick under brush—till we
                                    came to "Middle fork" river—which is a mad dashing
                                    roaring stream falling over a bed of huge boulders—with high wooded
                                    & rockey bluffs rising on each side—here we washed our
                                    faces—eat some parched corn and hard bread—then crosst the
                                    river by jumping from stone to stone—after getting over the river and up
                                    a high hill we 
                                     went on up a hill, along fields and were just crossing a deadning when we
                                    saw a man some 60 yards ahead coming toward us. he looked very pale and tried to
                                    avoid us but we calld him & found him an ignorant Irishman. he advised us
                                    not to go further on that road or we would be taken by the scouts. We now took the
                                    road to a dutch farmers—coming around his field we came up to his cabin
                                    in the rear—two half yellow half black half starved long eared baying
                                    coon dogs came out at us—and their barking calld Mrs Aurorabach to the
                                    Caben door—where she took up a position which she seemed inclined to
                                    hold. She was six feet high with a long thin face—the color of putty she
                                    had three long front teeth—blackend with smoke and calomel—she
                                    had two little flat curls of hair on each tempel which was all she had on her head A
                                    brown clay pipe up side down with a long cane stem was held tightly between her
                                    snags—her eyes exposed a large field of white—her frame was
                                    only a frame for she was near skeliton—
                        
                        
                        She was frightend beyond speaking and finaly after looking hard at us for some time
                                    s[a]id "Who ar you"
                        We did not tell her but asked for the man of the house—she said
                                    "I reckon you dont mean to hurt him" We didnt wish to hurt him.
                                    She pointed to a field—where we soon found him ploughing corn with an old
                                    sorel mare—a little boy on the fence to watch—who ran as soon
                                    as he saw us—
                        Old Aurorabauk—was a quiet old dutchman—as ugly as his
                                    wife—who he sais he married not for looks but for service— The
                                    old man asked us to stay for breakfast but we declined, and put right
                                    on—for "Coon Carpenters" We arrived here about 7 o
                                    clock AM Coon and his son were setting on the porch—what they had to talk
                                    of I cant tell—they stared at us when we came up—but Wilson
                                    was an old friend—and told them that we were "all
                                    right." then followed the usual questions—as to what was doing
                                    at Philippi—and what would be done—and then laugh over the
                                    flight of the Sesess[ionists] from there—
                        
                        
                           [With this sketch, Fletcher's diary ends.]
                        
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Letters of Francis Parkman. Two volumes. Edited by Wilbur R. Jacobs. (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, in cooperation with the Massachus tts Historical Society, 1960. Vol. I: Pp. lxv,
                    204. Vol. II: xl, 286. Illustrations, indices. $12.50 per set.)
            Of the "slightly more than four hundred Parkman letters … printed in this
                    edition" (I, p. lxi) none is extraordinarily moving or revealing. None is of any high
                    literary value. The best writing appears in those not properly part of any correspondence but done
                    as essays intended for formal publication—"Letters to the Editor" and
                    the like. Except in controversy where he was formidable, Parkman was a gentlemanly and friendly
                    letter writer who was bluff, businesslike, and effective rather than lively, moving, or elegant.
                    Even in youth he wrote reticently. The little surviving correspondence from his 
                        Oregon
                     Trail adventure is disappointing. Neither do the letters in these volumes add much to
                    what Parkman's biographers and the Journals have told us.
            Nevertheless these two well-printed and scrupulously edited volumes were well worth the doing. They
                    fill out the Parkman record definitively. And they tell the story of the man who wrote the great
                    forest histories with matchless directness, authoritativeness, and finality. Rich in detail, with
                    hundreds of more or less recondite facts supplied by Professor Jacobs, Parkman's Letters finally constitute a kind of manual of the historiographical life as a
                    great man lived it. They provide wonderful insights into the world of that cultivated,
                    internationalist, intellectual Proper 
                        Boston
                     which so fascinated Howells and James (who both in turn fascinated Parkman when they
                    wrote about his milieu). The letters document perfectly the qualities of Parkman's mind:
                    his zeal, toughness, and stoicism; the clarity, retentiveness, independence, and impressive capacity
                    for objectivity of his intelligence; the intriguing blends of romanticism, aristocracy, and
                    practicality in his outlook.
            Inevitably, the central motif of his letters as of his life is Parkman's fight for health.
                    Near-blindness, migraines, exhaustion, racking tension, insomnia—and then arthritis which
                    forbids the exercise that alleviates other afflictions—cut him down again and again.
                    Emotional losses exacerbate physical difficulties. For months and years he is prostrated. Medical
                    science is helpless, and "cures" as often injure as help him. They always fail.
                    And yet he lives out his three-score years and ten. He produces the long series of beautifully
                    written, solidly and originally researched histories and his novel. He engages significantly in
                    public controversy and even finds time to develop a lily and become briefly a 
                        Harvard
                     professor of horticulture.
            Twenty years younger than Emerson, Parkman showed many of Emerson's
                    "Plotinus-Montaigne" or "wingéd 
                        Franklin
                    " traits. His original determination to unite personal experience of the
                    wilderness with exact historical documentation smacks of that. "The best characteristic of
                    my books is, I think," he wrote retrospectively, "that their subjects are largely
                    studied from real life. They have involved, however, a prodigious amount of mousing in libraries and
                    archives" (II,  p. 209). It says a good deal about the
                    man, a pet lover, that any reader of his letters would know that in "mousing" he
                    thought of himself as cat, not mouse.
            In the same way, Parkman sought to hold all of life in balance between the fact and the ideal. The
                    best of authors were Shakespeare and Molièe—but the best to bring a boy up on
                    was Scott: "… an educational force of the first value, in all the qualities of
                    the man and the gentleman; and if, as Mr. Howells tells us, his influence is undemocratic, then so
                    much the worse for democracy" (II, p. 240). Perhaps Parkman did not know how closely his
                    ideal of a republican aristocracy centered on a romantic concept of the gentleman conformed to that
                    of Fenimore Cooper—though "Cooper, Irving, & Bryant" are named
                    the "American writers to whom I owe most" (II, p. 240).
            For all the picture these letters, like most literature on Parkman, give us of the debilitated if
                    heroic, closeted Brahmin, Parkman's ability to conduct his public and particularly his
                    professional life effectively is impressive. He understood the "business of
                    authorship" and managed it far more astutely than Melville or even Henry James (to say
                    nothing of Poe). He worked painstakingly and foresightedly to cooperate with and make friends of
                    American, Canadian, and French historians. He took responsibility for building and advancing the
                    profession—not for self-promotion but for Clio. And yet he profited as a researcher and
                    undoubtedly in the elevation of his reputation by such activities.
            Parkman worked hard for others, but when necessary he hit hard for the credit of his own name and
                    veracity. He loaned expensive documents; he sacrificed as well as enthused to help other
                    men's editions into print. Of course his own work was advantaged, the grist flowed to his
                    mill. But in the long run it was all for the love of history. And his final disinterestedness is
                    perhaps best demonstrated by the generosity of his gifts to libraries, especially those of 
                        Harvard
                     and the 
                        Massachusetts
                     Historical Society. One of the largest categories of letters is given to such
                    professional concerns, and it is here that Professor Jacobs' diligence in annotating names,
                    papers, books, old controversies, etc. shines to best advantage. The editor makes whole pages of the
                    history of history come to life in his notes. Altogether, he and his publisher are to be
                    congratulated on these volumes.
            Edwin H. Cady, Indiana University
                
         
         
            
               The 
                            United States
                         to 1865. By Michael Kraus. The University of 
                            Michigan
                         History of the Modern World. Edited by Allan Nevins and Howard M. Ehrmann. (
                        Ann Arbor
                    : University of 
                        Michigan
                     Press, 1959. Pp. xiii, 529, xi. Maps, list of suggested readings, index.
                    $7.50.)
            
               The 
                            United States
                         Since 1865. By Foster Rhea Dulles. The University of 
                            Michigan
                         History of the Modern World. Edited by Allan Nevins and Howard M. Ehrmann. (
                        Ann Arbor
                    : University of 
                        Michigan
                     Press, 1959. Pp. ix, 546, xix. Maps, list of suggested readings, index.
                    $7.50.)
            
            
               Empire for Liberty: The Genesis and Growth of the 
                            United States
                         of America. Two volumes. By Dumas Malone and Basil Rauch. (
                        New York
                    : Appleton-Century-Crofts, Inc., 1960. Vol. I, To 1865: Pp. xviii,
                    882, xxxv. Vol. II, Since 1865: Pp. xviii, 961, liv. Maps, charts, illustrations,
                    appendices, select bibliographies, indices. Textbook edition, $7.50 per volume.)
            These hefty books—four very substantial volumes in weight as well as
                    content—add an increment of solid worth to the shelf of available surveys of the history
                    of the 
                        United States
                    . Considering the number of excellent works of this sort which teachers and general
                    readers may turn to, no one should have any difficulty today in finding a general American history
                    which in size, organization, point of view, and style satisfies his own predilections. In fact, one
                    might almost say that there is an embarrassment of riches in this respect.
            The Kraus and Dulles volumes form the part of the University of 
                            Michigan
                         History of the Modern World dealing with the 
                        United States
                     of America. The two volumes divide that history at the conventional place, the year
                    1865—an orthodoxy which from today's point of view seems less defensible and
                    desirable than it did a generation ago and which seems to stem more from the traditional semester
                    organization of year-long general courses in American history than anything else. Surely
                    Reconstruction and its aftermath belong primarily to the era of the Civil War. Unfortunately, the
                    economics of scholarly book publishing rule out any innovation which might jeopardize the widespread
                    adoption of the books as textbooks regardless of the merits of the innovation. We will have to be
                    patient with this unfortunate truncation of a unified period, which by implication confuses the
                    location of a major watershed in American history.
            Here is history excellently written—lucid, sprinkled with occasional sprightly wit,
                    eminently readable in every respect—which can be recommended as an admirable guide for
                    the student and layman and as a very useful summary for the professional historian. Here also is
                    history which exhibits on its every page testimony to the high standards of contemporary scholarship
                    in the field. It is authoritative, careful, and crisply up-to-date in fact and interpretation. The
                    authors have given us, despite some minor flaws, a survey which is a model for its kind. One perhaps
                    might have wished for somewhat more interpretation at the expense of a few factual details; perhaps,
                    too, there could have been more stress upon weaving together American affairs and those of the other
                    nations of the world. These are small matters, however, compared with the over-all high quality of
                    the volumes.
            Physically and functionally these volumes, as all of 
                        Michigan
                    's history series, are a joy to use. Handsomely bound and clearly printed on
                    excellent paper, with good indices and a full and perceptively annotated bibliography, they
                    immediately impress one as fine specimens of the art of bookmaking. The authors, the editors of the 
                        Michigan
                     history series, and the designers of the University of 
                        Michigan
                     Press are to be heartily congratulated.
            The history of Professors Malone and Rauch, while offered specifically as an undergraduate college
                    textbook, is far more than just a  student handbook. Like the
                    Kraus-Dulles volumes these are a very good general history of the 
                        United States
                    . Here, too, the story of American history is divided at the Civil War, with Professor
                    Malone writing the volume dealing with the period before 1865 and Professor Rauch the volume on the
                    period after 1865. In style and scholarship this history is also first-rate. Both the authors have
                    felicitous styles that are equal to all the demands put upon them for imaginatively re-creating such
                    an epic as America's history. Clear but not sparse, vigorous but not unsubtle, colorful but
                    not extravagant—from the first page the writing enables the reader to settle back and
                    allow himself to be carried pleasantly and excitingly into this perennially absorbing story.
            However excellent these authors are from the literary point of view, they are no less impressive in
                    their ability to handle skillfully the techniques and apparatus of the scholarly historian. Clio
                    need fear no shortcomings from her devotees here. This history is careful, sound, and judicious, on
                    the one hand, and liberal, questioning, and imaginative on the other. Both students and laymen could
                    not find a much better introduction to what today's professional historian tries to do with
                    history for the reader who is a nonspecialist.
            It is too bad, however, that such a fine, rich, vigorous story should be entombed in a drab and
                    dreary set of covers. The outward appearance of the books is reminiscent of the most uninspired and
                    dull elementary school textbooks of the 1920's. If the packaging principle of the 
                        Madison
                     Avenue people is as important as they say it is, Messers. Appleton-Century-Crofts, Inc.
                    have done a disservice to what is otherwise a fine product. Once one is inside the offending
                    binding, the maps, charts, paper, and typography are excellent. The text is also often pleasantly
                    relieved by tastefully chosen and well-reproduced illustrations. (To this reader a work of history
                    without illustrations, particularly contemporary portraits and scenes, is often like an otherwise
                    beautifully furnished room that lacks pictures.) There is also a very full bibliography and the
                    usual apparatus designed to aid students—appendices containing the Declaration of
                    Independence and the Constitution; tables of political parties, federal executive officers, etc.
            One consequence of reviewing two such excellent specimens of the general survey-textbook type
                    history, together with the knowledge that quite a few other works of this sort are available, each
                    in their own way possessing also considerable excellence, is to wonder about the value of additional
                    time and effort being spent in producing any more—at least for the time being. It would
                    be too bad if the best historians of this generation were to be exploited by the gigantic boom
                    appearing in the textbook publishing world (reflected in the soaring of book publishers'
                    stock and the frenetic buying, selling, and reorganization of textbook publishing concerns), and
                    have much of their valuable creative capacity consumed in a mad commercial race, à la 
                        Detroit
                    , between endless streams of competing "late model" textbooks.
            Such first-rate historical talents as we have should address themselves, it seems to this reviewer,
                    to one of the pressing historical problems of our times: the advancement of history, once again, to
                    the stature of being one of the most important literary products of our culture.
                    It is time to realize that the novel need not be the chief 
                    literary means of commentary on the human condition. The public success of Winston
                    Churchill's extended histories shows that the intelligent general reader of today is
                    capable of being interested in reading history, provided that it is literarily satisfying, and is
                    not at all dismayed by multivolume works in the grand manner. Perhaps now is the time for the best
                    historians to win back the place that history once enjoyed in the reading public's favor
                    during the days of Prescott, Bancroft, Irving, Parkman, Macaulay, etc. A few courageous historians
                    today are daring to return to the writing of history in the grand manner; let us hope that others of
                    literary talent as well as historical ability will emulate them.
            William M. Neil, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               The Papers of Benjamin 
                            Franklin
                        . Volume II, January 1, 1735, through December 31, 1744.
                    Leonard W. Labaree, editor; Whitfield J. Bell, Jr., associate editor; Helen C. Boatfield and Helene
                    H. Fineman, assistant editors. (
                        New Haven
                    , Conn.: Yale University Press, 1960. Pp. xxv, 471. Illustrations, map, index.
                    $10.00.)
            This is the second volume of the projected forty-volume edition of the 
                        Franklin
                     papers now being published by Yale University and the American Philosophical Society.
                    The Papers will include everything of any significance written in whole or in part
                    by 
                        Franklin
                     or written to him and about him during his lifetime if still existing in any form and
                    found and identified. The frst volume of the Papers includes a history of the
                    vicissitudes of the Papers, a genealogy of the 
                        Franklin
                     family, a full statement of editorial methods, and the 
                        Franklin
                     papers from 1706 to 1734 inclusive.
            This second volume covers the years from 1735 to 1744 inclusive. One-fifth of this volume consists of
                    the aphorisms and verses printed during the nine years of publication of Poor
                        Richard's Almanac. The calendar portions of the Almanac are not
                    reproduced. More than one-fourth of the volume consists of extracts and editorials from the 
                  
                            Pennsylvania
                         Gazette. The extracts consist of advertisements and brief news items that
                    reflect 
                        Franklin
                    's peculiar interests and sense of humor. Many of the editorials are short
                    essays on moral conduct.
            About a fourth of the volume is devoted to four pamphlets written and printed by 
                        Franklin
                    . Three of these pamphlets give an account of the heresy trial of a Presbyterian
                    minister in which 
                        Franklin
                     criticizes the unfair manner of the trial and the theological arguments by the
                    prosecution and judges. Apparently the defendant in his sermons had emphasized the importance of
                    obedience to the laws of God and good works at the expense of justification by faith. 
                        Franklin
                     naturally was inclined to side with the defendant. Apparently 
                        Franklin
                     more than held his own in the argument and in winning the sympathy of the people for
                    the minister until it developed that the defendant had delivered as his own the sermons of an able
                    but unorthodox and condemned theologian of the early church. 
                        Franklin
                     in disgust withdrew from the congregation for life but continued to contribute to the
                    church. The fourth of these pamphlets gives a description of the stoves  and fireplaces of 
                        Franklin
                    's time, including the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     fireplace invented by him. It also includes an essay in physics which discusses the
                    principles of the conduction and convection of heat; the compression, expansion, and movements of
                    gases and vapors; and the effects of drafts when striking a limited part of the human body and their
                    relation to the causation of a number of human ailments.
            Besides a few reassuring letters to members of 
                        Franklin
                    's family, there are a few dozen letters to and from some of the distinguished
                    men of the colonies. The number of the second group of letters increased rapidly as time passed. It
                    is clear from a reading of the letters that thinkers valued the insight and judgment of 
                        Franklin
                     and that he was anxious to exchange ideas with stimulating thinkers in any area of
                    thought. In all 
                        Franklin
                    's writings one finds evidence of his free-ranging mind, interested in
                    everything. Among his correspondents are found the names of Alexander Spottswood, one of the best of
                    the colonial governors; James Logan, merchant, classical scholar, and philospher; Cadwallader
                    Golden, scientist; George Whitefield, revivalist; and William Strahan, 
                        London
                     publisher and adviser to Adam Smith, David Hume, and Edward Gibbon.
            Descriptive digests of account books, ledgers, and post office records are given. Nine
                    illustrations—portraits, facsimile reproductions, and maps—are included.
                    Preceding the text of each document is a heading or title, date of authorship, information giving
                    the place or places where the document may be found, and an editorial note explaining the
                    document's significance. Every proper name is satisfactorily identified in a footnote. The
                    editorial work is all that could be desired, and the printing and bookmaking is excellent.
            Albert L. Kohlmeier, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               The Vice-Admiralty Courts and the American Revolution. By Carl Ubbelohde. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, for the Institute of Early American History and Culture at 
                        Williamsburg
                    , Va., 1960. Pp. xii, 242. Note on sources, bibliography, index. $6.00.)
            The period of the American Revolution seems in danger of going the route of the Civil War. Before its
                    bicentennial anniversary, it may also virtually disappear in a flood of undiscriminating
                    publication. Against this threat, Professor Carl Ubbelohde has helped buttress the wall of
                    scholarship with this well-researched volume on one of the factors which contributed to friction
                    between 
                        England
                     and the colonies.
            
               The Vice-Admiralty Courts and the American Revolution fills the need for a
                    monograph on that particular subject. While historical background is supplied, the bulk of the book
                    is devoted to the decade preceding the Revolution. The hierarchy of the courts and the mechanics of
                    the system are described and related to the problems of the time.
            The vice-admiralty courts did not figure much in the colonial mind before the 1760's.
                    Although the Navigation Act of 1696 gave the courts jurisdiction in trade violations, they remained
                    little known until the end of the French and Indian War. Those colonists, merchants and seamen  in particular, who were aware of these courts thought of them as
                    a protection against foreign intervention or as a means of swift justice.
            The Grenville administration changed this with the "Black Act" of 1764. As a part
                    of the new revenue system, the mother country established in 
                  Halifax, Nova Scotia
               , a
                    super-court with authority from 
                        Florida
                     to Newfoundland. The colonists were offended by the granting of jurisdiction in revenue
                    cases to the vice-admiralty courts which, to their horror, did not rely on juries. Quick to assume
                    injustice, Americans believed their rights restricted.
            From this point on the situation deteriorated as the British and their colonists began to go through
                    motions which are standard in colonial relations. The officials in the courts throughout this period
                    were in danger of mob violence if they performed their functions. Ships seized for violations of the
                    law were wrested from the British.
            The Empire's masters attempted to retain control by granting concessions. In regard to the
                    court system, the government established four district courts to replace the one super-court at 
                        Halifax
                    , but the colonists had reached the point where they viewed this modification as a
                    further extension of British dominion rather than as an attempted compromise. As Ubbelohde aptly
                    writes: "Words were no longer of any use: the pattern of attack and counterattack had gone
                    too far" (p. 179).
            With the outbreak of hostilities, the courts collapsed. Ironically, Americans realized that courts to
                    handle maritime disputes were necessary and established an admiralty court system of their own. In
                    one case, the position of judge was offered to Richard Morris, who had sat on the bench under the
                    old regime. The cycle was complete.
            Ubbelohde has presented a scholarly study which merits its publication by the Institute of Early
                    American History and Culture. His bibliography shows that he has exhausted the sources on this side
                    of the Atlantic and, with the aid of microfilm, on the other side as well. His book is a valuable
                    aid to anyone who wishes to understand the coming of the American Revolution.
            Edward M. Coffman, 
                  
                            Memphis
                         State University
            
         
         
            
               George 
                            Washington
                         & the French Revolution. By Louis Martin Sears. (
                        Detroit
                    : 
                        Wayne
                     State University Press, 1960. Pp. x, 378. Appendix, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $7.00.)
            This is Louis Martin Sears's valedictory work. He died May 15, 1960, just one month before
                    publication of this volume. It is fortunate that Professor Sears lived long enough to finish his
                    inquiry into 
                        Washington
                    's sources of information on the French Revolution and his reaction to that
                    violent upheaval, for this is the balanced and mature analysis of a scholar whose adult lifetime was
                    largely spent in research in the federal period of American history. In this his last and perhaps
                    his best book, Professor Sears presents his reasoned concept of a 
                        Washington
                     thoroughly human but possessing great patience and evidencing clarity of purpose and
                    depth of wisdom which few other leaders have shown.
            The French Revolution began in 1789, the very year of George 
                        Washington
                    's inauguration as first president of the 
                        United States
                    .  Indeed, the first meeting of the Estates General
                    was held at 
                        Versailles
                     just five days after 
                        Washington
                     took office. In the beginning America was generally enthusiastic about the revolution
                    in a sister state. But the terror of 1792 and the execution of Louis XVI in January of 1793 cooled
                    such ardor. And finally war between 
                        France
                     and 
                        England
                     placed the 
                        United States
                     in an unenviable position. What would now be the best policy for the new nation to
                    adopt, linked as it was by ties of friendship and alliance with 
                        France
                    ? After considerable deliberation 
                        Washington
                     and his cabinet chose neutrality as the only possible course, and the Neutrality
                    Proclamation of April 22, 1793, remains one of America's great state papers. The author
                    notes that the French Revolution tested 
                        Washington
                     in theory and practice, as a political thinker and statesman, and in response he shaped
                    what was to remain the basis of American foreign policy for more than a century.
            Professor Sears's study is based on reports from 
                        France
                     still in 
                        Washington
                    's files and on the reports from American agents to the Department of State,
                    including letters in the personal files of Thomas Jefferson, William Short, Gouverneur Morris, and
                    James 
                        Monroe
                    , men who were the 
                        United States
                    's ministers in 
                        France
                     during the presidency of 
                        Washington
                    . In addition there are the letters to 
                        Washington
                     from his French friends, including those from the Marquis de 
                        Lafayette
                    , the Comte de Rochambeau, the Comte de Moustier, and the Marquis de la Luzerne. Each
                    chapter of Sears's book represents one year in the revolutionary era, and the author has
                    provided a brief summary of revolutionary events at the beginning of each of the chapters. Professor
                    Sears definitely limits his book to 
                        Washington
                    , the information received, the informants, and the subsequent action influenced
                    directly and indirectly by the reports. All material is presented chronologically so that the reader
                    can examine the data in the same order in which it came to Washingon. Biographical sketches in the
                    appendix acquaint one with those persons of secondary importance who are named in the book.
            The files of correspondence exhibit some interesting side lights. Jefferson remembered the early and
                    more idealistic days of the revolution which he had observed in 1789, and neither the bloody terror
                    nor the execution of some of his closest French friends could dampen his enthusiasm. Only protracted
                    experience with Citizen Genet finally wrought the change. Gouverneur Morris is acknowledged by two
                    French historical authorities, Taine and Esmein, to be one of the best observers of the French
                    Revolution, and his brilliant reports were invaluable to Washingon. Yet Morris'
                    aristocratic ways and his outspoken antipathy to the excesses of the French radicals led the
                    revolutionary French regime to demand his recall. James 
                        Monroe
                    , who replaced Morris, went overboard to rewin French friendship, and this led 
                        Washington
                     to recall him.
            In an epilogue Professor Sears weighs 
                        Washington
                    's errors against the results and concludes by fully sustaining 
                        Washington
                    's policy of neutrality. Scholars will be grateful that the author managed to
                    compress in a volume of moderate length the essential information which kept President 
                        Washington
                     abreast of the rapidly changing revolution in 
                        France
                     and which in turn motivated his decisions.
            Frederick A. Schminke, Indiana University
            
         
         
         
            
               Jacksonian Democracy and the Working Class: A Study of the 
                            New York
                         Workingmen's Movement, 1829–1837. By Walter Hugins. 
                  
                            Stanford
                         Studies in History, Economics, and Political Science, Volume XIX. (
                        Stanford
                    , Calif.: 
                        Stanford
                     University Press, 1960. Pp. vi, 286. Tables, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $6.00.)
            What did Jacksonian Democracy mean? What was the nature of the movement? Whence came its support and
                    what was its appeal? These questions have been treated by historians of the period, and various
                    interpretations of the Jacksonian phenomenon have been advanced. Recent scholars such as Arthur M.
                    Schlesinger, Jr., Richard Hofstadter, Bray 
                        Hammond
                    , Louis Hartz, Marvin Myers, and others have argued persuasively for one point of view
                    or another. Discussions by these men have provided us with new understanding of some of the
                    complexities of the Jackson period, and such discussions offer a continuing challenge to historians
                    of the future. Debate has, however, centered on the large questions; while many have suggested the
                    need for research of a precise and limited nature, few have been willing to undertake it.
            Now, in his study of the 
                        New York
                     Workingmen's movement, Walter Hugins presents us with the results of that kind
                    of limited investigation necessary to fuller comprehension of Jacksonian Democracy. In so doing he
                    has established the significance of the small questions as well as the large and the importance of
                    the hitherto unheralded Workingmen as well as their more famous contemporaries. But he has done more
                    than this. From another standpoint his most important contribution is methodological. Hugins has
                    shown us how effectively techniques more characteristic of other disciplines, particularly
                    sociology, can sometimes be used by historians.
            
               Jacksonian Democracy and the Working Class is divided into three parts indicative
                    of the threefold analysis employed by the author. The first part is concerned with the relationship
                    between political parties and the 
                        New York
                     Workingmen's movement. There was, Hugins argues, an evident continuity linking
                    the Workingmen's party of 1829-1830, the Democratic party of the Bank War period, and the
                    Antimonopoly and Locofoco movements of the middle thirties. The second section of the book contains
                    a chapter on Workingmen and the labor movement in which Hugins demonstrates that "the
                    interests and objectives of the Workingmen generally transcended the narrow vision of the labor
                    movement" (p. 79). This chapter is followed by biographical vignettes of various
                    individuals active in the Workingmen's movement and by a statistical analysis of
                    occupations. Having examined the socioeconomic basis of the movement, Hugins turns finally to its
                    program. His conclusion that Jacksonian Democracy in 
                        New York
                     "was the product of the interaction of diverse groups whose common denominator
                    was not loyalty to President or Party, but the desire for social change and individual
                    amelioration" (p. 218) is based upon careful evaluation of voting records.
            Here, then, is a valuable book which will be widely used by students of Jacksonian Democracy. Yet the
                    kind of analysis Hugins employs, his immersion in the particular rather than the general, and his
                    somewhat pedestrian style combine to make it a book which will have few attractions for those who
                    are not specialists in the period. While this  reviewer agrees
                    with the rather blunt assertion that the study "sheds light" on an important phase
                    of Jacksonian Democracy, he cannot help but recoil from the frequent use of a tired
                    clich$eA. Hugins is to be commended, however, for the task he has undertaken and for his
                    diligence in carrying it out.
            Paul W. Glad, Coe College
            
         
         
            
               The Copperheads in the Middle West. By Frank L. Klement. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1960. Pp. xiii, 341. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $7.50.)
            Their hearts were black; their blood was yellow; and their minds were blank. This, Frank L. Klement
                    recognizes as the traditional description of the critics of the Lincoln administration during the
                    Civil War. In this volume he attempts to dispel this myth, which remains untouched though scholars
                    have for years been engaged in a re-examination of the history of the Civil War. The Copperhead
                    movement in the Middle West has long needed the kind of study which Klement accords it. After
                    tracing the roots of Copperheadism to various economic, social, and religious problems of the
                    period, the author then contends that much of the Copperhead tradition can be attributed to the
                    Republican administrations which needed a stimulus to improve Northern morale, an excuse for
                    arbitrary arrests, and an issue with which to discredit the Democratic opposition.
            For those who prefer their history in the James Ford Rhodes tradition, Copperheads in the Middle West
                    may cause some disquieting moments. Klement regards the Knights of the Golden Circle and their
                    secret society counterparts merely as bungling, inept, minor league fanatics, who at the lowest
                    level possibly hoped for personal aggrandizement and at the highest level may have wished to provide
                    competition for the very effective Republican Union Leagues. Only in the hands of the Republicans
                    did membership in the societies become legion and society activities dangerous. Klement's
                    carefully documented and well-substantiated volume further describes the Copperheads as, in the
                    main, well-intentioned Democratic conservatives who were sincerely opposed to the economic, social,
                    and political changes resulting from the Civil War. The romance of secret organizations, traitorous
                    leaders, and subversive plots dies hard, but Klement's research undoubtedly gives a truer
                    and more valid picture of Copperheadism than does the traditionl interpretation.
            It is perhaps in its rather broad interpretation of the term Copperhead that Klement's book
                    is weakest, for the reader may be left with the impression that all Democrats were Copperheads.
                    True, Civil War Republicans certainly struggled to create this impression, but historians have not
                    so condemned Democrats who did not work actively against the war. Indeed Klement narrowly misses
                    removing the poisonous fangs of the Copperheads completely by finding their venom for the most part
                    in the minds and hearts of Black Republicans. A further question arises concerning
                    Klement's evaluation of Logan Esarey's A History of Indiana. Careful readers of
                    Esarey may fail to discover the traditional treatment and biased glorification of Oliver P.  Morton, Indiana's controversial Civil War governor,
                    which Klement asserts can be found there.
            One final word of commendation is due this reappraisal of mid-western Copperheadism. It is a work
                    that evokes strong feeling in the reader. Klement's treatment of the petty partisanship in
                    which both parties indulged is enough to arouse any reader to indignation against some supposedly
                    patriotic Civil War leaders. That partisanship and patriotism were synonymous terms during the Civil
                    War era is undeniable, and Frank Klement has endeavored to disclose the sordid machinations of petty
                    politicians—machinations too long hidden by the golden glow of historical fiction.
            Lorna L. Lutes, Dyer Junior High School
                    
                  
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana
            
         
         
            
               The American Heritage Picture History of the Civil War. By the editors of American Heritage; Richard M. Ketchum, editor in charge. Narrative by Bruce
                    Catton. (
                        New York
                    : American Heritage Publishing Co., Inc., 1960. Pp. 630. Numerous illustrations, index.
                    $19.95; de luxe edition, $25.00.)
            As the centennial observance of the Civil War is approached, students will become almost surfeited
                    with books pertaining to various aspects of the conflict. But few volumes will attain the excellence
                    of The American Heritage Picture History of the Civil War. The publishers have
                    produced a volume which can hardly be surpassed in format and contents. Bruce Catton, a Pulitzer
                    prize winner and generally considered one of the most prolific authorities on the subject of the
                    Civil War, has written the narrative for the book. This fact in itself assures the high quality of
                    the production, which cost $2,000,000.
            This book presents truly a panorama of the war in all its ramifications. It contains 836
                    pictures—wash drawings, water colors, etchings, photographs, lithographs, and posters,
                    with about one-third in gorgeous colors. Many of the illustrations have never been available to the
                    general public before. The eighteen battle-picture maps are of unusual clarity; and the eighty-four
                    photos of battlefields, taken today but at the same season and hour and under the same weather
                    conditions as when the battles took place, are indeed remarkable.
            The Introduction by Richard M. Ketchum acquaints the reader with the general scope of the contents.
                    It is followed by nineteen chapters, starting with "A House Divided," which
                    depicts an innocent America moving haltingly but inexorably from 1850 onward toward the horrors of a
                    civil war. The topics of Lincoln's election and the formation of the Confederate 
                        United States
                     of America conclude this chapter. The narrative of subsequent chapters covers the story
                    of the war from start to finish: the military and naval campaigns, the political atmosphere of the
                    1860's, the changing objectives of the war, the leaders on both sides, the economic and
                    social forces involved, and the war's diplomatic aspects.
            In the final chapter, "A Sound of Distant Drums," Catton eloquently summarizes the
                    meaning of the Civil War: "It left America with a legend and a haunting memory …
                    the enduring realization that when  the great challenge comes,
                    the most ordinary people can show that they value something more than they value their own lives.
                    When the last of the veterans had gone, and the sorrows and bitternesses which the war created had
                    at last worn away, this memory remained. The men who fought in the Civil War, speaking for all
                    Americans, had said something the country could never forget" (p. 606).
            All names, places, and events are noted in a comprehensive index of twelve pages of three columns
                    each. It contains over one thousand major references and scores of sub-items.
            It would be an understatement to say that this book is a collector's prize. It is much more
                    than that. For any American family, here is a dramatic record of the war. It is brief and yet
                    complete, accurate but not pedantic; it is evocative and absorbing, with language that is graceful
                    and eloquent; it is as close to life and as colorful as today's fine graphic art and
                    pictorial journalism can come.
            I. George Blake, 
                  
                            Franklin
                         College
            
         
         
            
               Edwin Forrest: First Star of the American Stage. By Richard Moody. (
                        New York
                    : Alfred A. Knopf, 1960. Pp. xi, 415, xi. Illustrations, notes on sources, index.
                    $6.95.)
            When in September, 1862, Artemus Ward referred to Edwin Forrest as a "grate acter,"
                    he reflected the view American theatregoers had held for over thirty years. From the time of his 
                        New York
                     debut as a twenty-year-old Othello in 1826, Forrest rose steadily in his profession to
                    become the unchallenged idol of American tragic theatre.
            Through ensuing years, however, the image of Forrest, the man, has been lost. Now, in a masterful
                    biography, Richard Moody has restored Edwin Forrest to vibrant reality. Judiciously weighing and
                    organizing his evidence, Moody has blended it into a vigorous narrative delineating Forrest as a
                    person.
            A model of then-popular concepts of masculine beauty, Forrest used his carefully nurtured strength to
                    thrill audiences by spectacular leaps from level to level on the stage and by such actions as
                    lifting an actor from the floor by the throat and swinging him about in a semicircle at
                    arm's length. His popularity allowed him to make high salary demands on theatre managers,
                    who were then obliged to raise regular box office prices for Forrest productions. At thirty-two
                    Forrest earned $33,000 a season, equivalent to an untaxed income of $125,000
                    today. In 
                        Chicago
                     in 1866, for example, he averaged $2,300 per performance.
            When his twelve-year marriage ended in charges and countercharges of adultery, Forrest entered a long
                    period of litigation over alimony payments. At the time of his separation he faced a professional
                    challenge from an old stage rival, William Macready, the English actor. The partisan animosity
                    arising from competing 
                        New York
                     productions of Macbeth led Forrest's adherents among the Bowery
                    B'hoys to attack the Macready offering at the Astor Place Opera House, resulting in the
                    violent riot which Moody traces in detail in a previous book.
            
            After a three-year retirement from 1857 to 1860, Forrest was forced by the pressure of alimony
                    payments to return to the stage. His old admirers enthusiastically welcomed his reappearance, but he
                    failed to win new supporters. Though crippled by rheumatism, Forrest trouped beyond the retirement
                    age of other leading actors—Kemble and Garrick retired at sixty, for example. In the last
                    year of his life, at the age of sixty-six, Forrest completed an eight-thousand-mile tour, playing
                    125 performances.
            In a cogent final chapter Professor Moody assays Forrest's "mobile magic."
                    What results is a model description of a theatrical style, a description based on fact and presented
                    in concrete terms. The place of Edwin Forrest in our cultural history is evaluated in
                    Moody's definitive summation: "In the middle fifty years of the past century no
                    native-born, native-trained actor climbed so high … and carried the raging democratic
                    fever to the stage with such fierce passion. And no actor compelled so many Americans to pay so much
                    for a tempestuous evening in the theatre" (p. 405).
            Donald R. Glancy, Central High School Battle Creek, 
                            Michigan
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Following the Indian Wars: The Story of the Newspaper Correspondents Among the Indian
                        Campaigners. By Oliver Knight. (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 1960. Pp. xv, 348. Illustrations, maps, bibliography, index. $5.95.)
            Hundreds of thousands of pages have been printed dealing with various phases of the wars waged by the 
                        United States
                     Army against the Indians of the Trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West between 1866 and 1891. As yet, however, no comprehensive account of this
                    "quarter of a century of conflict" has been published. Obviously such a study
                    would require several volumes, but this book gives in eleven chapters a colorful picture of the
                    campaigns and engagements of the army against the Indians in this period as seen by the newspaper
                    correspondents.
            The author lists twelve major campaigns in these twenty-five years in which 930 battles and
                    skirmishes were fought. Eight of these campaigns were against the tribes of the plains and deserts,
                    three dealt with those of the mountains, and only one was waged in a Pacific coast state. In the
                    various engagements the army lost 932 officers and enlisted men, and 1,061 were wounded. Military
                    records also estimate the number of Indians killed by soldiers as well as the number of actions
                    fought against Indians by civilians in this period. The figures given in both cases must be only
                    wild guesses, for the Indians always carried away their dead if possible, and many minor skirmishes
                    between civilians and Indians were never reported.
            Just as the veteran army officer who had served throughout the Civil War found his former experience
                    of little value in fighting Indians, so did the most seasoned correspondent find himself in an
                    entirely new situation when campaigning with the army on the Indian frontier. Here his chief needs
                    were a horse, gun, and a courier to carry his dispatches to the nearest telegraph station, which
                    might be a hundred or more miles away. He wore rough western garb, shared an officer's tent
                    and mess, ate the sometimes scanty rations of hardtack, bacon, beans, and  coffee, and endured the same hardships as the soldiers. At times he had
                    to fight for his life, for as a white man he was an enemy whose scalp was regarded by every red
                    warrior as a trophy with the same value as that of a soldier. In fact Mark Kellogg, representing the
                    Bismarck Tribune, died with Custer at the Battle of the Little Big Horn.
            While the work of the newspaper correspondents is Knight's primary theme, his book goes very
                    far beyond this to give a brief account of every campaign and battle of the period. As a result it
                    reveals much information as to the personal qualities of the military leaders and the strategy they
                    employed. It is a little surprising that the author bases his summary of the Battle of the Little
                    Big Horn on E. I. Stewart's Custer's Luck instead of on W. A.
                    Graham's The Custer Myth, which he later states is the most valuable book
                    on that engagment. This point is not important, however, since this conflict is one of the most
                    controversial subjects in American history.
            Indian fighting in the West was about over by the close of 1881 except for the efforts of the army to
                    capture Geronimo and his little band of Apaches in 
                        Arizona
                     and the brief Sioux outbreak in Dakota in 1890–1891 culminating in the
                    Battle of Wounded Knee. A swarm of reporters covered this battle, but from 1866 to 1881 there were
                    only twenty identifiable accredited correspondents with the army in the field. They represented many
                    newspapers, largely those in the West or Middle West. Only the 
                        New York
                    
                    Herald reported every major campaign from 1868 to 1881, but the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Times also reported consistently on the army in the West.
            The author not only describes the work of all these twenty correspondents, but in his final chapter
                    summarizes the subsequent career of each of them. They include Henry M. Stanley, later best known as
                    an African explorer, and James J. O'Kelly, who became a foreign correspondent for the 
                        London
                    
                    Daily News. Both of these men became members of the British Parliament. John F.
                    Finerty, author of War-Path and Bivouac, served one term in Congress, while
                    Charles S. Diehl became manager of the Associated Press. Most of the others were to win distinction
                    as newspaper publishers, foreign correspondents, in state politics, in the development of the West,
                    and in Australian affairs. Four, including Kellogg, died before 1891 or soon thereafter.
            This is a most significant and interesting book which should be read by everyone interested in Indian
                    affairs during the period it covers. It is remarkably well written, and seven maps and twelve
                    illustrations add much to its value. The bibliography is imposing and the index adequate.
            Edward Everett Dale, University of 
                            Oklahoma
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Caesar's Column: A Story of the Twentieth Century. By Ignatius
                    Donnelly. Edited by Walter B. Rideout. The John 
                            Harvard
                         Library. Edited by Howard Mumford Jones. (
                        Cambridge
                    , Mass.: Belknap Press of 
                        Harvard
                     University Press, 1960. Pp. xxxii, 313. $4.50.)
            Although the Haymarket Riot of 1886 inaugurated the first "red scare" in the 
                        United States
                    , the same period of fear of oligarchic plutocracy, of depressions, and of panaceas,
                    witnessed the publication  of the nation's most famous
                    socialist novel, Edward Bellamy's Looking Backward (1888).
                    When—thanks in part to the promotional activities of Grangers and Farmers'
                    Alliances—Bellamy's book became a best seller, the market was flooded with other
                    books of this genre. Among the most famous of these was Caesar's Column
                    by the eccentric, dynamic Alliance orator and organizer, Ignatius Donnelly, who stated in 1892 at
                    the 
                        Cincinnati
                     meeting of the People's party founders that "not to know …
                    [Edward Bellamy] is to argue one's self unknown."
            
               Looking Backward delineated the evolutionary development of an ideal, democratic
                    but collectivized state of economic equality, brotherly love, and altruistic
                    cooperation—and consequently one of intellectual and spiritual growth. Although Bellamy
                    portrayed a positive picture of what man's will and idealism could create, he also
                    criticized capitalist sinners. Donnelly presented in Caesar's Column not
                    only a trenchant attack on capitalism and revolutionary anarchism but also a negative portrait
                    of what the year 1988 would be if Bellamy's inspired humanity did not evolve—if
                    the greed and selfishness and "indifference to the great bond of brotherhood which lies at
                    the base of Christianity" (p. 3) did not change. The misery and hatred of the exploited,
                    brutalized laborers would result in a bloody anarchist revolution which would destroy civilization,
                    and this destruction is symbolized by "Caesar's Column," the burial tower
                    of the dead. Like Steinbeck in the 1930's, Donnelly warned that "`the grapes of
                    wrath'" could result in "red juice … that flows thick and fast
                    …" (p. 259).
            Although Donnelly's ideal society as described in the chapters entitled
                    "Gabriel's Utopia" and "The Garden in the Mountain"
                    does not incorporate Bellamy's collective society, its general aims are the
                    same—and so are many of the ideas included in Caesar's Column.
                    Although Professor Walter Rideout states in his excellent Introduction that Donnelly had read Looking Backward and that he was "willing to cash in on
                    Bellamy's fame," he commends Donnelly for concepts expressed first by Bellamy:
                    that Darwinian survival of the fittest might mean the survival of the most ruthless, that rugged
                    individualism could victimize all classes, that environment could encourage crime, that solving the
                    material problem might be conducive to spiritual and moral growth, and that technology and
                    unemployment were related. Furthermore, Professor Rideout fails to note many other obvious
                    similarities between Bellamy's and Donnelly's books. Among the long list of
                    similarities which could be presented would be the use of the sermon in both books to epitomize the
                    characteristics of the civilizations depicted.
            Although Caesar's Column could be studied, therefore, as a presentation of
                    a counter-utopia greatly influenced by Looking Backward, the most rewarding
                    approach to it today is as an important pièce de sièele. It
                    should be read by all interested in literature and social sciences not because of its melodramatic,
                    romantic, and oratorical qualities, but because it endeavors to answer so many
                    "whys": why Jefferson feared the spirit of commercialism; why political corruption
                    and wealth have a long history; why Darwin's theory of survival of the fittest became an
                    argument for rugged individualism; why the agrarians lost their individualism and laborers organized
                    to become strong; why social legislation was necessary for the salvation of both democracy and  capitalism; why revolution based upon hatred and violence must
                    fail; why communism and anarchism had their appeal and their unfulfilled promises; and why the
                    peoples of the Congo and other areas of the world are on the march today—and in the wrong
                    direction.
            Sylvia E. Bowman, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               The Heritage of 
                            Kansas
                        : Selected Commentaries on Past Times. Edited by Everett Rich. (Lawrence:
                    University of 
                        Kansas
                     Press, 1960. Pp. 359. $5.00.)
            Marking 
                        Kansas
                    ' hundredth year of statehood, Dr. Everett Rich, who teaches English at 
                        Emporia
                     State College, has brought together a collection of writings designed to give a
                    "panoramic" view of 
                        Kansas
                     up to 1900. This volume mixes accounts written by individuals who took part in the
                    events described and secondary accounts written years later—the latter not always
                    meriting classification as historical writing.
            The forty-four selections—all reprints—are divided into eleven sections which
                    deal with a variety of topics: the Old West, years of violence, 
                        Kansas
                     immigrants, men against the frontier, invention and transportation, the end of the
                    cattle trail, the outlaw fringe, life in a pioneer town, fact and fancy, the turn of the century,
                    and an "Interpretation," the last being Carl Becker's essay on 
                        Kansas
                    . As a whole, the selections cover fairly well the salient features of 
                        Kansas
                     history up to 1900—Coronado, the Santa Fe Trail, the 
                        Oregon
                     Trail, the pony express, John 
                        Brown
                    , border warfare, the slavery controversy, immigration, farm life, drouth and blizzard,
                    buffalo hunting, crime, Indian fighting, railroad construction, the cattle industry, etc.
            It is indeed difficult, however, to fathom what common denominator the editor has used in putting
                    together such an array of past and present writers as Donald Culross Peattie, Mark Twain, Josiah
                    Gregg, Ralph Waldo Emerson, Stanley Vestal, and E. W. Howe. But he has put them together.
            The Preface gives little clue to the yardstick of selection other than that it mentions readability
                    and interest and the fact that no attempt has been made to provide a thread of "consecutive
                    history." Heritage of 
                            Kansas
                        
                "depicts something of the struggle with the major issues and a little
                    of the daily round of everyday living," the editor writes (Preface). The
                    "something" and the "little" come almost entirely from the
                    original accounts, such as a parson's story of his escape from Quantrill at Lawrence,
                    another cleric's story of his adventure in secreting a runaway slave, and firsthand
                    recollections of immigration and settlement.
            With all due respect to the secondary writers who are included—gentlemen who command
                    respect in their own right—the volume would have been much stronger had it drawn upon
                    original accounts alone. Surely diligent research would have turned up better material than, for
                    example, the opening selection which deals with Coronado's march through the Southwest. By
                    all means, Coronado must be mentioned at the start of a volume treating the history of 
                        Kansas
                    , but not by means of a 1940 magazine piece. That rather jars the reader, finding such a
                    selection at the very start of a volume dealing with a "heritage."
            
            In choosing readable and interesting selections, the editor has achieved his purpose, but his purpose
                    suits not so well the historian's purpose.
            Oliver Knight, Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               The Administration of Interstate Compacts. By Richard H. Leach and Redding S.
                    Sugg, Jr. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1959. Pp. vi, 256. Bibliographical note, index.
                    $4.50.)
            This book presents new material in the field of public administration, being the first comprehensive
                    attempt at an appraisal of interstate compact agencies. The volume contains a valuable discussion
                    concerning the position of interstate compact agencies within the governmental structure, and the
                    increase, especially since World War II, in the formation and utilization of these agencies. The
                    formation of interstate compacts provides "a new dimension for state power" and
                    permits "states to take continuing cooperative action in fields where they cannot act
                    effectively or do not wish to act alone, fields which might fall by default to the federal power if
                    not occupied through the initiative of the states" (p. 6).
            The authors select six interstate agencies for special case studies: the Pecos River Commission, the
                    Atlantic 
                        United States
                     Marine Fisheries Commission, the Ohio River Valley Water
                    Sanitation Commission, the Waterfront Commission of 
                        New York
                     Harbor, the Interstate Oil Compact Commission, and the Southern Regional Education
                    Board. The volume is actually an outgrowth of a project begun while both authors were staff members
                    of the Southern Regional Education Board, which was established in 1949 and operates successfully in
                    the southern states from 
                        Maryland
                     to 
                        Texas
                    . The experience gained by both writers is evident in their lucid description of the
                    relationship between staff and officers in the administration of interstate compacts.
            The authors maintain an objective approach concerning the formation of interstate compacts except,
                    perhaps, in the instance of one agency—the Interstate Oil Compact Commission. The
                    statements that "the Interstate Oil Compact Commission was formed strictly to prevent waste
                    of the nation's oil resources" (p. 91) and that the "motivating force on
                    the part of the participating states was resistance to federal intervention" (p. 196) fail
                    to take into consideration basic factors which were an intimate part of the chaotic conditions in
                    the oil producing fields prior to the formation of the compact. It is naive to suggest that the oil
                    producing interests were concerned only with conservation. Stabilization of the price structure is a
                    definite factor in the formation of a state compact.
            A discussion of conservation which utilizes the parlance of the oil industry is an adventure in
                    semantics. In order to understand what is meant by conservation, one must consider the definition of
                    the word "waste." In 
                        Kansas
                    , for example, after the decision by the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court in the Champlin case, the state legislature in 1933
                    amended the proration statute and defined the term "waste" to include
                    "economic waste" and waste incident to the production of crude oil or  petroleum beyond the capacities of transportation or marketing
                    facilities or beyond reasonable market demand (italics by the reviewer). This
                    decision was made during a period of turmoil and tension in the oil producing
                    fields—state militias had been called out in 
                        Texas
                     and 
                        Oklahoma
                    .
            The situation was stabilized in 1933 by the enactment of a federal statute—the National
                    Recovery Administration. The effects of the NRA may be illustrated by the stabilization of the
                    market and the progressive increase in the price of oil. Prior to the enactment of the NRA, oil sold
                    in 
                        Kansas
                     for 28¢ per barrel (May, 1933); in September, 1933, under the NRA the price
                    made one jump from 34¢ to 85¢ per barr 1! Federal control went out, however,
                    with the passing of the NRA via the Supreme Court's decision in the Schechter case. The industry then made some effort to obtain a federal control bill, in fact,
                    the rise and fall in the volume of demand for federal control appears to have a direct relation to
                    market conditions. Early movements in 1932 for a state compact through the instrument of the Oil 
                        United States
                     Advisory Committee were shunted aside in preference to a pending bill for a higher
                    tariff on foreign oil imports, but this committee was the nucleus for the formation of the
                    Interstate Oil Compact Commission in 1935.
            Contrary to the statement in Leach and Sugg's volume that no evidence has been presented
                    which indicates attempts on the part of the Interstate Oil Compact Commission to stabilize or fix
                    prices or create or perpetuate a monopoly, such evidence was contained in the Wherry Report of 1940.
                    An outgrowth of this report was an antitrust suit instituted by the Department of Justice which was
                    settled by a consent decree in 1941. The industry has been operating under this consent decree from
                    that time to the present.
            Perhaps the greatest contribution of the authors is in their discussion of factors that contribute to
                    the success or failure of the agencies. Success, they find, depends directly upon the ability and
                    continuity of the staffs recruited by these agencies to carry out their work. This maxim could be
                    applied with equal validity to independent commissions within the federal governmental structure.
            Leach and Sugg have made some interesting conclusions and predictions concerning interstate compact
                    agencies and conclude that "interstate compact agencies can play a tremendous role in the
                    states' resumption of power" (p. 226). Theirs is a useful and pertinent volume
                    which contributes a great deal both to understanding of federal-state relations and certain aspects
                    of public administration.
            Earl D. Bragdon, Northwest 
                            Missouri
                         State College
            
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               Indiana Labor Relations Law. By Fred Witney. Indiana Business
                    Report, Number 30. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University, School of Business, Bureau of Business Research, 1960. Pp. xii,
                    123. Index. $3.95.) As stated in the opening paragraph of the Preface: "This
                    study deals with the development and the current status of Indiana labor relations law. Its
                    fundamental purpose is to shed light on this vital area of Hoosier society and to provide a better
                    basis for the evaluation of the content and direction of the laws regulating and controlling
                    union-management relations. The study not only highlights the substance of the legislation, but also
                    presents an analysis of its experience." Professor Witney, who probably knows Indiana labor
                    law much better than any other individual, discusses labor legislation in a broad industrial
                    context. He indicates that the Indiana state government has exercised an increased role in
                    labor-management relations during recent decades. Witney notes that the federal government has
                    exclusive jurisdiction over a very large segment of labor-management relations, but he is aware that
                    an important part is left to the states. In addition, he gives attention to that varying
                    "no man's land" which is not clearly within either state or federal
                    jurisdiction. The need for such a volume as this is increased by the fact that Indiana's
                    labor code is drawn from a number of statutes. Witney's work deserves careful study by such
                    diverse groups as lawyers, politicians, labor leaders, employers, and historians, as well as by
                    interested citizens.
            Materials on Indiana Geology. Teachers, librarians, and other persons interested in publications
                    regarding Indiana geology will doubtless find much of value among the following pamphlets, all of
                    which are circulars of the Indiana Department of Conservation, Geological Survey.
            Circular No. 1. Geologic Formations on Which and with Which Indiana's Roads Are
                        Built. By Charles F. Deiss. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana Geological Survey, 1952. Pp. 17. Illustrations, references. Paperbound,
                    10¢.)
            Circular No. 2. An Introduction to the Geology of 
                            Parke County
                        , Indiana. By Charles E. Wier and William J. Wayne. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana Geological Survey, 1953; revsd., 1957. Pp. 35. Illustrations, bibliography,
                    glossary. Paperbound, 25¢.)
            Circular No. 4. Guide to Some Minerals and Rocks in Indiana. By Seymour S.
                    Greenberg, Wayne M. Bundy, and Duncan J. McGregor. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana Geological Survey, 1958. Pp. 60. Illustrations, tables, selected bibliography.
                    Paperbound, 25.)
            Circular No. 5. Let's Look at Some Rocks. By William J. Wayne. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana Geological Survey, 1958. Pp. 36. Illustrations, references. Paperbound, 35.)
            Circular No. 6. Adventures with Fossils. By Robert H. Shaver. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana Geological Survey, 1959. Pp. 52. Illustrations, list of museums, suggested
                    reading. Paperbound, 35¢.)
            
            Circular No. 7. Fossils: Prehistoric Animals in Hoosier Rocks. By T. G. Perry. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana Geological Survey, 1959. Pp. 83. Illustrations, glossary, suggested readings.
                    Paperbound, 40¢.)
            Circulars 5 and 6 in particular should be of interest to and may be read by most junior high school
                    students. Copies can be ordered from: Publications Section, Indiana Geological Survey, Indiana
                    University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana. For orders totaling less than $1, 10¢ should be added
                    to cover postal charges; for orders amounting to more than $1, 10 per cent of the price
                    of the pamphlets should be added for postal charges.
            Materials on Indiana History. Through the courtesy of Robert Holmes, coordinator of secondary
                    curriculum for the 
                        New Albany
                    -
                        Floyd County
                     schools, copies of three historical pamphlets concerning 
                        New Albany
                     and vicinity have been received. Each is entitled Historical Series of 
                            New Albany
                        , was published by the Union National Bank of 
                        New Albany
                    , and is based on scripts used on radio station WLRP, 1956–1957. The
                    pamphlets include sketches regarding prominent local citizens, episodes in the development of
                    transportation, items regarding industries and business firms, and various other topics. Schools
                    interested in developing printed materials about Indiana history for use in classes might find it
                    helpful to review these pamphlets and consider how they were prepared and developed.
            
               The Keelboat Age on Western Waters. Facsimile reprint. (
                        Pittsburgh
                    , Pa.: University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 1941; reprinted, 1960. Pp. xiv, 268. Endpaper map, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $5.00.) This volume is a facsimile reprint of the original edition
                    which was published in 1941. Its attention is centered on keelboat navigation on the
                    Ohio and Mississippi rivers, plus some of their
                    tributaries, mainly during the period from the 1770's until the 1820's, when
                    steamboats established their supremacy over keelboats on major streams. The scope of The Keelboat Age on Western Waters is broader than is inferred by its title. For instance,
                    consideration is given to the role of flatboats in downstream trade, the development of steamboat
                    navigation, shipbuilding on the 
                        Ohio
                    , problems of navigation, guides to navigation, and the use of the 
                        Ohio
                     by early immigrants to the Ohio Valley. The volume remains useful
                    regarding the development of transportation in the Ohio Valley. Its value might
                    have been increased, however, by the addition of a new chapter or introductory sketch in which the
                    author would have briefly evaluated new findings on his topic.
            
               Pen Pictures of Early Western 
                            Pennsylvania
                        . Facsimile reprint. Edited by John W. Harpster. (
                        Pittsburgh
                    , Pa.: University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 1938; reprinted 1960. Pp. xv, 337. Maps, selected bibliography, index.
                    $5.00.) Pen Pictures of Early Western 
                            Pennsylvania
                        
                offers about forty accounts regarding western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     from 1748 until 1829. Although the locale is western 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , the situations and developments described are of national and international
                    significance as well as of local and regional importance. Because of this fact, the book is helpful
                    concerning such topics as the rivalry between 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     for control of the forks of the 
                        Ohio
                    , the last French and Indian War, the role of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     as a  gateway to the West, frontier life, and the
                    early settlement and growth of the Ohio Valley. The accounts used are largely
                    primary sources gleaned from both little known and well-known authors.
            
               The Lost Sister Among the Miamis. Reprint. By Otho Winger. (Elgin, Ill.: Elgin
                    Press, 1936; reprinted, North 
                        Manchester
                    , Ind.: L. W. Schultz, 1960. Pp. 143. Illustrations. $2.00.) During the
                    American Revolution Frances Slocum, a 
                        Quaker
                     girl who lived in the Wyoming Valley of northeastern 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , was stolen by Indians. The Lost Sister Among the Miamis is an
                    account of efforts of her family and relatives to find her. More than half a century passed in this
                    fruitless search, but in 1835 George W. Ewing, an Indiana fur trader, located an old
                    "Indian" woman near Peru who was thought to be Frances Slocum. Although her
                    brothers and other relatives were satisfied that she was their long "lost sister"
                    and wanted her to return to them, Frances chose to remain with her Indian family and friends.
                    Various of the "facts" of The Lost Sister Among the Miamis
                    remain uncertain. Nevertheless, with a bit of background explanation, most junior high school
                    students would find this an exciting book. Moreover, a thoughtful teacher could use this little
                    volume as a basis for a discussion of stimulating and important questions about the Indian as well
                    as for a discussion of relationships between them and early settlers.
            
               Well Mary: Civil War Letters of a 
                            Wisconsin
                         Volunteer. Edited by Margaret Brobst Roth. (
                        Madison
                    : University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 1960. Pp. ix, 165. Illustrations, maps, bibliography, index. $4.00.)
                    This volume consists of Civil War letters written by Private John F. Brobst, a volunteer in the
                    Twenty-fifth 
                        Wisconsin
                     Infantry Regiment, to Mary Englesby, 1863–1865. Brobst participated in the
                    capture of Vicksburg, 1863; he started across 
                        Georgia
                     with Sherman's forces in 1864, but was unable to complete this march because
                    of illness. He participated in the closing events of the war in 
                        North Carolina
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     in 1865. An Introduction and background sketches to the various chapters add helpful
                    information.
            
               La Follette's Autobiography: A Personal Narrative of Political
                    Experiences. By Robert M. La Follette. (
                        Madison
                    : University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     Press, 1960. Pp. x, 349. Frontispiece, appendix, index. Paperbound, $1.95.)
                    Robert M. La Follette's Autobiography was completed during the
                    presidential campaign of 1912. Though in some respects clearly a tract of its times, it remains an
                    essential document for any careful study of the Progressive era. Rereading this autobiography after
                    a lapse of about a quarter of a century was an enjoyable and stimulating experience. La
                    Follette's emphasis on issues, principles, and problems is in striking contrast to most
                    political speeches of the 1960 campaign; his emphasis on the role and importance of individuals in
                    government is in striking contrast to current American emphasis on groups and blocs; and his views
                    about the proper role of government in relation to the economy as a whole, as well as its
                    responsibility to individuals, is also at variance with governmental policies and practices under
                    both Presidents Truman and Eisenhower. La Follette, feared by many as being a radical in 1912,
                    somehow reads like a conservative in 1960!
            
            
               A Guide to the Care and Administration of Manuscripts. By Lucile M. Kane. Bulletins of the American Association for State and Local History, Volume II,
                    Number 11. (
                        Madison
                    , Wis.: American Association for State and Local History, 1960. Pp. 333–388.
                    Illustrations, bibliography. Paperbound.) Here is an extremely useful guide regarding the care and
                    administration of manuscripts. In concise language and often using definite examples, Miss Kane,
                    curator of manuscripts at the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, considers what controls and preliminary understandings are
                    desirable in the acquisition of manuscripts and how collections may be organized. Then she offers
                    useful information about the sorting, evaluation, preservation, and cataloging of manuscripts. No
                    librarian or curator will find "all of the answers" in this brief booklet, but it
                    would be difficult to find more significant and practical information in a discussion of similar
                    length. A five-page bibliography offers a number of useful references. Quite likely librarians or
                    curators of small libraries will find this publication especially valuable. In addition, it includes
                    much information which needs to be better understood by historians and authors, too many of whom
                    underestimate their indebtedness to curators and librarians.
            
               The Vandeveers of 
                     North Carolina,
                                Kentucky
                  , and Indiana. By Mabel 
                        Van
                     Dyke Baer. (
                        Richmond
                    , Va.: Whittet & Shepperson, 1960. Pp. xi, 180. Frontispiece, appendices,
                    index.) This is a genealogical account of the descendants of John and Amelia Vandeveer, of
                            
                  Rowan County, North
                            Carolina
               . The Vandeveers were among the early settlers of Indiana,
                    first arriving in territorial days. Their distribution over 
                  North Carolina, Kentucky
               , and Indiana represents a pattern common to many families who settled
                    in pioneer Indiana. This volume will be of major interest to members of the Vandeveer family, but
                    the achievements of the family make it of more than mere local significance. An article concerning
                    this family appeared in the Indiana Magazine of History in the issue of March,
                    1959.
            
               Searching for Your Ancestors: The How and Why of Genealogy. Third edition. By
                    Gilbert H. Doane. (
                        Minneapolis
                    : University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1960. Pp. xvii, 198. Appendices, index. $3.95.) The fact that this
                    book, which originally appeared in 1937, now appears in a third edition is doubtless evidence of the
                    increasing interest of Americans in genealogy. According to its original Preface, it was written
                    principally for amateurs. Attention is given to sources of genealogical information, how to dig
                    needed facts out of them, how to organize information obtained, available aids, etc. Among special
                    topics treated are those of how to become a member of the DAR and how to trace one's
                    ancestors back across the Atlantic.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
