
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 75, Issue 1, pages 1-114. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:75+issue:1+year:1979&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Civil Rights and the Primary Election of 1964 in Indiana: The Wallace Challenge∗
            
            
                    Matthew E. Welsh
                    **
                
            In the spring of 1964 Democratic Governor George Corley Wallace of 
                        Alabama
                     announced that he was going to campaign for the presidency of the 
                        United States
                    , opposing President Lyndon B. Johnson, also a Democrat. Wallace had become a national
                    figure by defying the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court in refusing admission of Negro students to the University of 
                        Alabama
                    , and his campaign for the Democratic presidential nomination had obvious overtones of
                    racial intolerance which I found most disturbing.
            Indiana had come a long way since the adoption of its Constitution of 1851, Article XIII of which
                    barred Negroes and mulattoes from entering the state. At that time blacks already living in the
                    state, many of whom had been born here, were not regarded as citizens. They could neither vote nor
                    hold public office. They could not serve on juries or in the militia, and they were barred from
                    public schools.1 Article XIII was voided by the Indiana Supreme Court in 1866.
                    The General Assembly authorized school integration in 1877, prohibited discrimination in enjoyment
                    of public accommodations in 1885, and in 1963 created the Indiana Civil Rights Commission with broad
                    powers and an adequate budget.2 The record also disclosed, however, that the
                    statewide referendum in 1936 approving amendment of the Constitution to permit Negroes to be members
                    of 
                  
                     ∗ This article is an account of the 1964 primary election
                            in Indiana as experienced and remembered by one of the major participants in the campaign.
                            The account was written several years after the events occurred and was edited additional
                            years later. Specific reference to newspaper clippings and personal correspondence was not
                            always possible.
                  
                     ∗∗ Matthew E. Welsh, a Democrat, served as the
                            forty-first governor of Indiana from 1961 to 1965.
                  
                     1 Emma Lou Thornbrough, The Negro in Indiana before 1900:
                                A Study of a Minority (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol.
                            XXXVII; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1957), 31.
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., 206, 329, 259–60.
               
                     the Indiana National Guard was very close (426,031 to 398,201, a
                    majority of only 27,830)3 and that the Ku Klux Klan had allegedly seized control
                    of the state Republican party for a while in the 1920s. Obviously, Wallace felt Indiana might well
                    be most receptive to his racially oriented program.
            What particularly concerned me was the impact a large Wallace vote would have on the people of
                    Indiana—on their perception of themselves. I felt very strongly that a powerful showing
                    by Wallace would surely affect—adversely—the political and social climate of
                    Indiana, perhaps for a generation, as it would revive and give credence to a racist philosophy my
                    administration had worked very hard to defuse.4 The future could only be viewed
                    with foreboding if Wallace should carry the state, and such a victory might well have national
                    implications. President Lyndon B. Johnson did not ask me to run against Wallace in the Indiana
                    primary in 1964. He did not have to. I felt it was Indiana's problem—not his. It
                    was a problem that we had to meet and resolve ourselves, and I thought that it was my responsibility
                    as governor to lead the attack.
            It was against this background that the decision was made to oppose the Wallace campaign for
                    Indiana's delegates to the 1964 Democratic National Convention. This is the story of what
                    was done to meet the challenge. It is the basis for one chapter of my book, Statehouse
                        Indiana, 1961–1965.
               5
            
            
               
                  3
                        Constitution of Indiana as Amended (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1962), [13–14n].
               
                  4 The extent of discrimination in Indiana and the Midwest was a continuing
                        surprise to me. For example, during the 1960 campaign I discovered that black families traveling
                        through the state frequently had great difficulty in finding restaurants or public restrooms
                        that they could use. In another incident my campaign staff had arranged for me and my
                        "road show" to stay overnight at the 
                            Brown
                         Hotel in 
                            Louisville
                         after a television program there. At the time the reservations were confirmed, the
                        hotel was advised that one member of the party, Ollie Miller, our cameraman, was black; and we
                        were told that this would not be a problem. However, when we attempted to register, he was
                        refused. After some argument I finally told the desk that since I had a twin-bed room, he would
                        stay with me, and only on that basis was he permitted to stay. To avoid further confrontations
                        we ordered breakfast in our room next morning. When it was delivered, I was shaving, and the
                        black waiter, seeing only Ollie, excitedly exclaimed: "Man, you better get out of here!" Such was the temper of the times.
               
                  5
                        Statehouse Indiana, 1962–1965, by Matthew E. Welsh, is a
                        forthcoming publication of the Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
            In the late evening of March 30, 1964, Indiana Secretary of State Charles O. Hendricks called a news
                    conference and told reporters that all prospective candidates for the presidential preference
                    primary in Indiana would be certified to the ballot. The way was thus cleared for Governor George
                    Corley Wallace of 
                        Alabama
                     to take the second step in his national campaign to "shake the eyeteeth of the
                    liberals" in America. Wallace would be joined on Indiana's Democratic ballot by
                    me, as stand-in for President Lyndon B. Johnson; John Hugh Latham, a retired construction worker
                    from 
                        Rockville
                    , who advocated that only white and American Indian voters be allowed at the polls; Lar
                    Daly, the madcap showman from East 
                        Chicago
                    , who campaigned in an Uncle Sam suit; and Mrs. Faye (Fifi) Carpenter-Swain, a 
                        Cincinnati
                     housewife, who popped up occasionally at elections, clad in wildly colorful garb,
                    wearing a wristwatch on an ankle, and dispensing jelly beans by the handful. The less cluttered and
                    more sedate Republican ballot would list Senator Barry Goldwater and Harold Stassen as adversaries.
                    Frank Beckwith, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Joseph G. Ettl, 
                        South Bend
                    , both lawyers, also were certified to the GOP lineup.1
            
            The next day, March 31, Edward H. Ziegner wrote in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News: 
                        All that may be proved in Indiana's May 5 presidential preference primary is that
                            getting on the ballot involves little more than filling out an application blank.
                        Secretary of State Charles O. Hendricks yesterday certified five Democrats and four
                            Republicans for the presidential ballot, ignoring evidence presented before the State
                            Election Board that some petitions bore false signatures. Hendricks told reporters, before
                            he made his decision, that the signatures on one petition weren't even legible.2
                  
                    
                
            The Democratic leadership in Indiana had never doubted that Wallace would be admitted to the ballot
                    in the Hoosier state, and our plans for a vigorous campaign already were underway. We had first
                    become aroused by the Wallace foray into northern primaries when his progress in 
                        Wisconsin
                     brought national attention. In mid-March we had learned that Wallace definitely would
                    enter the Indiana primary. All my advisers agreed with me that it was essential we meet the
                    challenge head on, but not all agreed that I should become directly involved.
            
               
                  1 The story of the Wallace campaign was written with the help of Jim
                        McManus, who was my news aide all during the last year of my administration and who was
                        personally in the thick of this fight. I am deeply indebted to him for his able and dedicated
                        support then and his assistance with this chapter.
               
                  2
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, March 31, 1964, p. 20.
            
            
            On March 20 I conferred in 
                        Washington
                     with Senators R. Vance Hartke and Birch E. Bayh, Jr., and other members of the Indiana
                    congressional delegation. Both senators agreed that the Wallace presence in Indiana could do serious
                    mischief and that we must not underestimate his potential vote, especially in the steel towns in the
                    Calumet Region.
            Both men, however, declined to enter the race as a "favorite son" or stand-in
                    candidate for President Johnson, who had previously announced that he would not enter any primary
                    contests. It seemed to me that we could not risk running a relatively unknown Democrat, someone
                    without a statewide constituency, who might actually lose the election. Nor could we reasonably
                    expect even the venerated name of Governor Henry F. Schricker to stand alone against the political
                    winds of the Wallace candidacy without a strenuous campaign.3
            
            I held no illusions about my own personal popularity at the polls after the tax battles of the year
                        before.4 But it also weighed heavily in my thinking that Wallace, outside of
                    his overt segregationist policies, embodied the same conspiratorial view of our federal government,
                    the same "know-nothing" politics that had been prevalent in Indiana for so many
                    years. My administration had begun with a victory over that kind of politics; I didn't wish
                    to end the four years with a loss to the same foe. So, at the end of my meeting with the two
                    senators, I made the decision to become the president's stand-in on the Indiana primary
                    ballot in 1964. We then gathered together a group of Indiana Democrats who were in 
                        Washington
                    , including congressmen and several party officials, called in newsmen, and told them
                    what was going on. From that moment we were committed to a campaign that was to become one of the
                    most intensive political efforts of our experience.
            At the Indiana statehouse Jack L. New, my executive secretary, received the news of my decision by
                    telephone and directed Jim McManus, my news aide, to issue an immediate statement to local newsmen.
                    We then began to lay plans to challenge each petition submitted by prospective presidential
                    candidates requesting that their names be added to the primary ballot.
            
               
                  3 Henry F. Schricker, a Democrat, served as governor of Indiana from 1941
                        to 1945 and again from 1949 to 1953.
               
                  4 In 1963 Matthew E. Welsh, as governor, had signed into law an act
                        initiating a 2 percent sales tax in Indiana on most consumer products. Although the legislature
                        was controlled by the Republicans, Welsh received much of the blame for supporting what many
                        Hoosiers considered a "punitive" tax.
            
            
            
               PHOTOGRAPH TAKEN IN SENATOR R. VANCE HARTKE'S OFFICE, MARCH 20, 1964, AT THE TIME THE DECISION WAS MADE TO CONTEST THE ENTRY OF GOVERNOR GEORGE WALLACE IN THE INDIANA DEMOCRATIC PRESIDENTIAL PRIMARY. Seated, left to
                        right, Senator Hartke, Governor Matthew E. Welsh, Senator Birch E. Bayh, Jr. Standing, Mrs. Ruby
                        Campbell; Mark Hinkle, Hartke staff; Alexander 
                            Campbell
                        , Democratic national committeeman from Indiana; Margaret Afflis Johnston,
                        Democratic national vice-committeeman from Indiana; Mrs. Mabel Striker, vice-chairman, Indiana
                        State Democratic Committee; J. Edward Roush, M.C., Fifth District, Indiana; Winfield Denton, M.
                        C., Seventh District, Indiana; John E. Hurt;; Manfred Core, chairman, Indiana Democratic State
                        Committee; Mrs. Agenes Core; Michael Kraft, Hartke staff; Robert Keefe, Bayh staff; Macy Broide,
                        Hartke staff. Courtesy Matthew E. Welsh
            
            
            All that was required for a person to have his name certified to the primary ballot in Indiana was a
                    petition to the secretary of state, bearing the signatures of five hundred registered voters. My
                    petition was written in 
                        Washington
                    , and the Democrats gathered in Senator Hartke's office on March 20 were the
                    first signers. It was easy to gain the remaining necessary signatures of eligible voters when we
                    returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . New suspected that other candidates might not take the law quite as seriously as we
                    did. He conferred with Hugh W. Gray, deputy secretary of state, and pointed out that neither party
                    should be allowed to make a mockery of the Indiana primary. Gray, who was filling in while Secretary
                    of State Hendricks pursued his campaign for the Republican gubernatorial nomination, quickly agreed.
                    New dictated a letter asking that the State Election Board conduct an investigation to determine if
                    the petitions as submitted were lawfully drawn and signed. Gray signed Hendricks' name at
                    the bottom of the letter.
            Our next move was suggested by J. Manfred Core, chairman of the Democratic State Central Committee.
                    It was simply that we scout the opposition in the field. Core obtained news reporter credentials
                    from a friendly newspaper editor, gathered together Don H. Radler, his assistant; sixteen-year-old
                    Steve Radler; and Ollie Miller, a black photographer-cameraman employed by the Democratic State
                    Committee, and drove straight to Milwaukee where Wallace was scheduled to speak to the Marquette
                    University law school faculty. On the Marquette campus the Indiana group slipped into seats at the
                    rear of the hall, with the exception of Miller who caused Wallace some evident anxiety by walking to
                    the lectern and taking some flash close-up pictures.
            Impressed by the Wallace performance, Core and company checked into a hotel near the campus and began
                    a curbstone survey of 
                        Wisconsin
                     political sentiment, each of them questioning as many persons as possible, trying for a
                    rough-hewn cross section of persons and occupations. Core rode taxicabs. Radler and Miller worked
                    restaurants and drugstores, bus stops and hotel lobbies. By dinnertime they concluded that Wallace
                    was on his way to a huge vote in 
                        Wisconsin
                    .
            In the evening Wallace was scheduled to speak to a student audience, and Core decided that they
                    should try to hear him again and observe his handling of the young people. The newspaper credentials
                    had gotten the group easily into the afternoon meeting. That night it was another story. Young Steve
                    Radler  took a tape recorder with him and, hoping to pass for a
                    student, tried the main entrance to the auditorium. He was turned away. Don Radler and Miller tried
                    their credentials. They were denied entrance. Core got inside the building but was met on a stairway
                    by one of the huge Wallace bodyguards, each of them an 
                        Alabama
                     state trooper in plain clothes, and was physically restrained. The Indiana men met
                    outside and watched a large group of sign-carrying pickets, most of them Negroes, loudly protesting
                    the Wallace appearance. Core was certain that the Wallace entourage had spotted them in the
                    afternoon session and marked them as something other than Indiana newsmen.
            The next day Core and his group drove to 
                        Madison
                     and continued their political polltaking. They visited 
                        Wisconsin
                     Democratic headquarters, talked to staff members, and accompanied the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Democratic National committeeman, Patrick J. Lucey, to a local hotel where 
                        United States
                     Postmaster General John A. Gronouski was relaxing prior to a scheduled speaking
                    engagement. Both men expressed the feeling that Wallace was not making serious inroads. Begging
                    their pardon, Core told the two 
                        Wisconsin
                     men that his own soundings, including the not unfriendly comments he had heard about
                    Wallace from one of the secretaries in the 
                        Wisconsin
                     state Democratic headquarters, indicated otherwise.
            Back in Indiana, Core and Radler joined McManus and me in an early morning conference at the
                    statehouse. Their message was short and simple. "We are in trouble, gentlemen,"
                    said Core. It was time to begin organizing the campaign in earnest.
            Riding the crest of national publicity, Wallace had interrupted his 
                        Wisconsin
                     campaign on March 20 to speak to a meeting of the Indiana Society of Trade Association
                    Executives in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Declaring that the pending federal civil rights bill5 would
                    "destroy every single neighborhood school in the 
                        United States
                    ," Wallace struck the keynote of his pitch to northern voters: 
                  
                     5 The Civil Rights Act of 1964 in part contained new provisions to
                            help guarantee blacks the right to vote, guaranteed access to public accommodations,
                            authorized the federal government to sue to desegregate public facilities and schools,
                            provided that federal funds could be cut off where programs were administered
                            discriminatorily, and required most companies and labor unions to grant equal employment
                            opportunity. The act was debated in Congress for approximately one year; the sections on
                            public accommodations, cut off of federal funds, and equal employment opportunity were the
                            most controversial sections. The act was signed by President Lyndon B. Johnson on July 2,
                            1964. Congressional Quarterly Almanac, 88 Cong., 2 Sess., 1964 (
                                Washington
                            , 1965), XX, 338.
               
                    
                    
                        I am not a racist as many people have been led to believe. We in 
                                Alabama
                            , along with ever growing and imposing groups of other Americans, have rather
                            made it known that we are concerned over the continuing trend toward autocratic
                            government—that we will not willingly relinquish the basic tenets of our system.
                            …
                        My campaign is based on an attack on the fact that the Federal government in 
                                Washington
                             is reaching into every facet of society and encroaching on the rightful powers
                            of the state.6
                  
                    
                
            Later that day Wallace spoke to an overflow crowd at Earlham College in 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana, where he said: "If the so-called civil rights bill passes, there
                    will be no need for state or local government."7 Wallace's
                    shrewd political sense was apparent when, in answer to questions about the size of his potential
                    vote in Indiana, he replied that he expected to draw a "significant" vote. It was
                    plain that he would publicly cite any sizeable showing at all as a victory. The invitation to appear
                    at Earlham, a college founded and operated by the Society of Friends, was repeated by several
                    institutions of higher learning in Indiana. Indeed, the college campus was to become the principal
                    Wallace platform, and he had planned it that way.
            On Tuesday, April 7, Wallace captured one third of the Democratic votes in
                    "liberal" 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Editorialists across the nation called it a "stunning" total. More
                    than a quarter-million 
                        Wisconsin
                     voters had marked their ballots for the 
                        Alabama
                     governor.8 On Friday, April 10, Bill Jones, press secretary to
                    Wallace, told 
                        Indianapolis
                     newsmen that Hoosiers could expect an "intensive campaign throughout the
                    state." Wallace, he said, would arrive in Indiana the next week and would open his campaign
                    headquarters at the Claypool Hotel. He had accepted an invitation to speak at 
                        Butler
                     University the following Wednesday.
            Although our work to set up a campaign in opposition to Wallace's had been carried on at an
                    increasingly heated pace, very little had showed on the surface. We had made hundreds of contacts
                    within the party organization and among church and civic leaders at the state and local levels. We
                    had made it plain to these people that we felt the potential damage to Indiana's image as a
                    state during the Wallace campaign was great. What were the stakes in the primary election? We
                    explained to party members and Hoosier leaders that the most important consideration was the
                    possible damage that Wallace could inflict upon the real progress in human relations that we 
                  
                     6
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Star, April 21, 1964, p. 1.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 15.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, April 8, 1964, p. 3.
               
                     had experienced in Indiana. Undoubtedly, Wallace's
                    presence and his militant call for a stand against alleged incursions by the federal government
                    would encourage hatemongers to new activity. He would uncover, if only for a short time, the latent
                    bigotry held in check by the new social pressure for equality among all people. Politically, by a
                    strong showing, he could do real harm to the Civil Rights Act of 1964, then awaiting congressional
                    action. Although the historic legislation was virtually assured of passage, there remained the
                    possibility of damaging amendments. Finally, should Wallace win and, thereby, claim
                    Indiana's fifty-one votes at the Democratic National Convention, Indiana law required that
                    we support him on the first ballot. We were determined to avoid that national
                    embarrassment, whatever the cost.
            The day after the 
                        Wisconsin
                     primary election, reporters' interest in our reaction and preparation for the
                    coming test increased considerably. I had released a short statement on April 8 saying, in part:
                    "We do not underestimate the challenge and we intend to conduct a vigorous campaign in
                        Indiana."9 That same day Core revealed publicly that he had scouted
                    the Wallace campaign. He said: "The results of yesterday's election there do not
                    surprise me. I was told by political strategists in 
                        Wisconsin
                     that we in Indiana would have much more difficulty than they did. We are now making
                    plans for a vigorous campaign. Our slogan is: ‘Clear The Way for LBJ. Vote For Welsh The
                    5th of May.’"10
            
            Our campaign was beginning to take shape. We had assurances from church and union leaders that they
                    would undertake to make their own responses to the Wallace candidacy. The Democratic State Central
                    Committee had met, heard Chairman Core's report, and had given him their full support in
                    mounting whatever response was necessary. We had commissioned an advertising agency to begin
                    creative work on radio, television, and newspaper announcements. Radler obtained the services of
                    Robert Davis, assistant to Thomas March, director of public relations of the Department of
                    Conservation, on a leave basis. Davis, a former broadcast-time salesman, quickly purchased all
                    available prime time in the entire state. A meeting with black leaders from several metropolitan
                    areas was scheduled.
            We had begun to pick up momentum.
            
               
                  9
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, April 8, 1964, p. 23.
               
                  10
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Times, April 8, 1964, p. 3.
            
            
            However, among those who had not been taken into our confidence as we organized our attack, the
                    tension apparently was intolerable. As the day approached for Wallace to begin his campaign in
                    earnest, our switchboard became increasingly clogged with calls pledging support and asking when we
                    were going to get started. One top broadcast executive, widely known for his deep commitment to the
                    progress of Indiana, called McManus in some honest agitation, asking if we were doing something or if we were asleep at the switch. Assured that we were gearing up a large
                    effort, the caller pointed out that his stations could not ignore the Wallace campaign, but he had
                    been haunted by the thought that there would be no effective rebuttal at hand.
            Irving Leibowitz, columnist for the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Times, reported that the John Birch Society had been caught in the middle, hung on
                    the horns of a dilemma, by the coming primary election. Leibowitz wrote: "Members of the
                    Society want Goldwater for President, but they also want to register a strong protest against the
                    Civil Rights Bill in Congress." The columnist quoted Frank Thompson, a chiropractor at
                    Greenwood, as saying: "I'd like to help Wallace, but I'm registered as a
                    Republican. I didn't know a Republican could vote in the Democratic primary. I
                    don't know what I'll do."11 We were to learn later
                    that the John Birch Society and other right-wing extremist groups worked hard for Wallace in Indiana
                    and that many Republican voters crossed party lines to sign his original petition and to vote for
                    him on May 5. There were also a number of Republican voters who felt strongly enough about the
                    principles involved to ask for a Democratic ballot in order to vote for me.
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People issued a
                    statement which said in part: "We hereby protest the entry of Gov. Wallace into the
                    presidential primary of the State of Indiana because he has advocated, spread and disseminated
                    hatred by reason of race and color, which is against the public policy of the state."
            Racial hatred was unquestionably counter to the public policy of Indiana. Despite a clinging
                    reputation as a "Copperhead" state during the Civil War and a more deserved black
                    eye for the scandalous political strength of the Ku Klux Klan during the early 1920s, Indiana had
                    come a long way since the Constitution of 1851 had barred Negroes and mulattoes from 
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., April 16, 1964, p. 19.
               
                     entering the state. A report, prepared for me by the Civil
                    Rights Commission after I left office, said: 
                        It is difficult to assess accurately the progress that has been made in improvement of the
                            lot of the Negro in Indiana since 1960. We do know that in state government an example was
                            set of what could be done. Likewise in local government and in private companies thousands
                            of new job opportunities have been opened recently to Negro job seekers—some of
                            them requiring high skills and carrying great responsibility. Literally thousands of public
                            places throughout the state have extended their services and facilities on a
                            non-discriminatory basis for the first time since 1961. School administrators have doubled
                            their efforts to reduce segregation and increase opportunities for Negroes both as employees
                            and as pupils. A much greater awareness of the extent and critical nature of the problem
                            exists over the state. In 1960 only four cities had official Human Relations Commissions,
                            while in December, 1964, there were 20 such commissions.
                        At the beginning of 1961 one could hardly find a northern state in which the Negro citizen
                            had as little protective legislation and state programs in his behalf as in Indiana. But,
                            during the next four years, three Legislatures enacted a set of civil rights laws as
                            comprehensive as any other state has enacted in a 16-year period.
                        It probably is no accident, therefore, that Indiana apparently was the only large industrial
                            state which did not have a single disorderly racial incident occur during this entire period
                            of national turmoil.12
                  
                     This, then, was the Indiana that Wallace came to mine for votes in the spring of 1964; not
                    a state bound by the past, ensnarled in political dogma and fearful of social change, but a state
                    that was showing the way for much of the rest of the nation in a renewed search for equal
                    opportunities for all its citizens.
            There was another, more personal, irony for me. While Governor Wallace traveled north to excoriate
                    the federal government and its "interference" in the lives of citizens and the
                    rights of states, I was completing a series of personal diplomacy trips into eight of the states of
                    the Confederacy as part of the Civil War Centennial observance, returning to their governors
                    captured Confederate battle flags found in the Indiana World War Memorial. Graciously accepting the
                    flags in appropriate public ceremonies, the governors each had spoken of the bonds of common purpose
                    that now held us in union as one people and a great nation. There would be no opportunity to return
                    the battle flag to 
                        Alabama
                    .
            On March 30 a group of county clerks appeared before a special meeting of the State Election Board to
                    report on their 
                  
                     12 This quotation is based on facts pulled from the 1963 and 1964
                            reports published in the 1964 and 1965 annual reports of the Indiana Civil Rights
                            Commission.
               
                     investigation of possible irregularities in the petitions
                    submitted by prospective presidential candidates requesting that they be placed on the Indiana
                    primary ballot. The board, which was composed of the incumbent governor and two other members, one
                    Democrat (James E. Noland of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ) and one Republican (Edwin Steers, Sr., of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ), heard the evidence in the presence of newsmen and others, including Secretary of
                    State Hendricks. Copies of all the petitions, prepared by New, had been dispatched on Friday, March
                    27th, by state police couriers to each of the county clerks in whose jurisdictions voters had
                    offered their signatures and support. With each copy had gone a facsimile of Secretary of State
                    Hendrick's letter requesting an investigation and a notice of the scheduled hearing before
                    the State Election Board. The clerks, Republicans and Democrats alike, worked most of the Easter
                    weekend to cross-check voter registrations against the petition signatures.
            The evidence which was presented indicated, among other irregularities, that the Wallace petition,
                    with 616 signatures, included the names of 115 persons not registered to vote. A couple of signers
                    were "Sam Sandwich" and "Wally the Pollock." Anthony Dobis of
                    Gary, a Democratic member of the 
                        Lake County
                     Board of Voter Registration, said the Daly petition, with the names of 900 alleged 
                        Lake County
                     registered voters, contained "not one voter legally registered in 
                        Lake County
                    ." Latham had fifty-nine nonregistered voters in his 555 total, leaving him
                    four short of the required five hundred. Ettl's 562 signatures contained the names of 151 
                        St. Joseph
                     County residents not registered. Douglas Buck, state police handwriting expert, said
                    the Wallace petition contained 92 names "with illegible signatures or multiple
                        signing."13
            
            Ziegner reported next day in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News: 
                        Hendricks had sought the election board hearing and the evidence, and said himself less than
                            two hours prior to his decision that "you can't even read the
                            names" on the Carpenter-Swain petition.
                        As yesterday's election board hearing in the governor's office ended at
                            5:10 p.m., Hendricks told reporters:
                        "Well, I've proved my point, that this whole presidential primary business
                            is being made a sham and a mockery by people who have no business running for
                                president."14
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     13 See 
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Sun-Commercial, March 29, 1964.
                  
                     14
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, March 31, 1964, p. 2.
               
                     But two hours later came the call for a news conference, and all
                    candidates were revealed as certified to the ballot.
            There was no question that Secretary of State Hendricks, a Republican, had made a politically
                    expedient decision in certifying the several candidates whose petitions were defective. He had found
                    himself in a blind alley politically, a position made all the more difficult for him because he had
                    helped put himself there. Now, agitated and embarrassed, he had made his decision.
            Since Core's return from his 
                        Wisconsin
                     foray, we had been putting together our basic campaign strategy. We had determined that
                    we should not allow Wallace to call the tune. He would attempt to run on the single issue of states
                    rights versus the federal government. It would be our job to remind the voter of his real message
                    and his real purpose.
            A division of opinion developed among our group as to whether I should personally and openly carry
                    the attack on Wallace. Several debates produced no clear decision on the matter, but it seemed to me
                    that any attempt on my part personally to ignore the Wallace presence in Indiana would be foolhardy.
                    I was the stand-in candidate and the logical person to carry the attack. And, as a practical matter,
                    it would be impossible to maintain silence throughout the campaign because of daily contact with
                    newsmen.
            Before the Wallace campaign began officially, Core had told reporters that our strategy would be to
                    knock down any voter attraction to the 
                        Alabama
                     governor by attacking him as an overt, active racist. "Wallace contends
                    he's running as a states' righter, but this is phony," Core said.
                    "He really is a racist. There's nothing for him to gain in Indiana. …
                    He's getting in here purely to embarrass the Johnson Administration." The state
                    chairman pointed out that we would closely identify with the president. He emphasized that I was not
                    a classic "favorite son" candidate, that my name would not be
                    entered before the national convention.15
            
            An early April public opinion poll, conducted statewide by a professional firm, confirmed our worst
                    predictions. If the election were held then, the polltaker said, Wallace would win 45 percent of the
                    Democratic vote. Clearly our first task was to awaken the party organization. Although the
                    Democratic party was united and well financed, the cumulative fatigue of more than three years work,
                    much of it in the face of harsh public 
                  
                     15
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, April 1, 1964, p. 2.
               
                     criticism, had taken its toll. We had to sound the alarm and
                    make certain every Democrat understood that the Wallace challenge was not a political sideshow, that
                    it had potentially grave consequences, and that we would be required to execute in a few days the
                    kind of intensively conducted campaign that normally would require months of preparation.
                    Fortunately, we had already begun a series of speaking engagements at party district rallies. We had
                    been recounting the administration's accomplishments and the political workers'
                    role in our service to the people in an attempt to invigorate the organization at the grass roots.
                    There were several scheduled appearances remaining, and they would offer excellent public platforms.
            Meanwhile, McManus and Radler were organizing the advertising effort. They discussed the coming
                    campaign with church and civic organizations and with Negro leaders from urban areas, collecting
                    background material on the Wallace record in 
                        Alabama
                    . Although we made contact with the Democratic National Committee and the White House,
                    there was no practical service they could render, and we asked for none.
            Core had established a liaison with 
                        United States
                     Senator Daniel B. Brewster of 
                        Maryland
                     and his staff in 
                        Washington
                    , promising to deliver to them all the information we might consider helpful in their
                    campaign organization opposing Wallace in 
                        Maryland
                    's primary. Through the Brewster staff Radler met Charles Morgan, formerly a
                    lawyer in Birmingham, 
                        Alabama
                    , who had gained national publicity when he told a group of that city's
                    business leaders that all Alabamians shared guilt in the church-bombing deaths of
                    four Negro girls in Birmingham. Sitting in Brewster's office, Radler asked Morgan if he
                    would come to Indiana and campaign against Wallace, whom he had once actively supported for the
                    governorship of 
                        Alabama
                    . Morgan said he could not afford that much time away from his work, but he would
                    consider making a television and radio program and perhaps a trip to Indiana if it would help our
                    cause. Radler quickly accepted, placed a call to a 
                        Washington
                     television station, and arranged for a taping session.
            That same evening Morgan sat in front of the cameras and ad libbed one of the most remarkable
                    political talks I have ever witnessed. Speaking entirely without notes, he recounted earlier days in 
                        Alabama
                     when he was a supporter of Wallace, then a man who preached a moderate brand of
                    politics. He told how Wallace lost his first bid to be governor and later said simply: "I
                    was out-segged." Morgan, recalling that Wallace once served in the Air Force, said the
                    defeated candidate then decided to  ride the political
                    "tail winds" of 
                        Alabama
                    . "'Tail Wind George’ became a changed man," said
                    Morgan. "And he was never out-segged again." Morgan continued his spellbinding
                    talk until the director stepped alongside the camera to signal that only a minute remained.
                    Expertly, the large-jowled lawyer finished his statement. He had fashioned one of the most effective
                    tools we were to use on radio and television.
            Leaving 
                        Washington
                    , Radler flew to 
                        South Carolina
                     where he found James McBride Dabbs, the courtly six-term president of the Southern
                    Regional Council, relaxing at his farm. Dabbs, who was the 1958 winner of the brotherhood award of
                    the National Conference of Christians and Jews, agreed to come to Indiana and show the citizens that
                    Wallace did not speak for the entire South. From 
                        South Carolina
                     Radler went to 
                  Montgomery, Alabama
               , where he continued efforts to find a
                    professional photographer who would shoot a picture of the Confederate flag flying atop the
                    statehouse while the Stars and Stripes was relegated to a staff on the lawn. It wasn't
                    easy, but he found one.
            Back in Indiana, Radler joined us as we began to review the broadcast spot announcements and
                    newspaper advertising layouts hastily drawn by our advertising agency. In addition, Core had called
                    a statewide meeting of all Democratic county chairmen and vice-chairmen for the following Saturday.
                    Radler called and got Morgan to agree to join us that day for a news conference and a closed-door
                    speech to the party leaders.
            The Wallace campaign in Indiana began on April 15. The 
                        Alabama
                     governor had flown into 
                        Indianapolis
                     the night before in the Lockheed Lodestar, owned by the state of 
                        Alabama
                     and bearing the printed slogan, "Stand Up For America." He called a
                    9:30 a.m. news conference at his Claypool Hotel headquarters while a group of black pickets
                    representing the local chapter of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People and
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Social Action Council paraded outside. Later he was scheduled to attend a student
                    meeting at 
                        Butler
                     University where his speech would be taped for replay on the school's radio
                    station, WAJC. Wallace aides also had contracted for the session to be filmed by sound movie
                    cameras, thus immediately and cheaply giving them a ready-made half-hour television program with a
                    Hoosier setting.
            Before the day was out, we were to see again the basic modus operandi of the Wallace campaign. At his
                    news conference he said that he did not object to parts of the pending federal Civil Rights Bill
                    because "I'm opposed to all of it. It's all 
                    
                  STATEHOUSE, ALABAMA, APRIL, 1964
                  Courtesy Matthew E. Welsh.
               
                     bad." He was quoted as saying, "I do not
                    believe legislation should be forced on the American people that will destroy our free enterprise
                    system and property ownership in the name of so-called civil rights." When a reporter asked
                    a tough question about the Birmingham church bombing, he replied: "We have an unsolved
                    dastardly crime in every state, including Indiana … When we find the person,
                    we're going to find it's not someone who cares about Negroes or whites or America,
                    but someone with universal malice in his heart for all mankind." On integration of the
                    races, he was quoted as saying, "Integration is a matter to be decided by each state. The
                    states must determine if they feel it is of benefit to both races."16
            
            At 
                        Butler
                     University, near downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Wallace was greeted by another group of peaceful pickets expressing their disagreement
                    with his views and his campaign. About three hundred students and newsmen filled a lecture room to
                    overflowing for the speech and question and answer session. Once again Wallace proved his ability to
                    handle an audience. When it appeared he was pinned by an embarrassing question, he adroitly turned
                    it against the questioner, usually with southern humor. He got applause and laughter. Outside the
                    room one student was quoted as saying, "It certainly makes you think. He sure is a shrewd
                    one."
            That same morning, April 15, we launched our campaign. Before a gathering of newsmen at the
                    statehouse, I read a prepared statement that left no doubt we intended to attack Wallace the man and
                    his racist politics as vigorously as we knew how. In part, I said: 
                        This is the man who stood by while dogs were set upon human beings and fire hoses were turned
                            on groups of peaceful demonstrators. … His arguments for states' rights,
                            coming from him, does [sic] nothing more than point to the futility of relying on
                            states' rights when there is no respect at the state level of constitutional
                            rights. …
                        This is the man whose beliefs were responsible for the deaths of innocent children in the
                            bombing of a Sunday school class in 
                                Montgomery
                             [sic]. …"17
                  
                    
                
            This was harsh language indeed! But I felt we must let our troops know how I really felt about this
                    campaign, and time was short. Here was a governor trying to promote a dangerous and divisive
                    intolerance as a major principle of the Democratic party, and he was attempting to use
                    Indiana—which had recently made great progress in this area—as a launching
                    pad. If 
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., April 15, 1964, p. 4.
                  
                     17
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, April 16, 1964, p. 1, 12.
               
                     he succeeded, a lasting stigma would become a part of
                    Indiana's history. I was determined to prevent his making a good showing in the Hoosier
                    state. Frankly, I was furious—and I guess it showed. Several reporters commented on it.
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star reported the next day: "And while Governor Welsh lashed out with
                    words against the southern governor, he provided him two state policemen to accompany Wallace when
                    he is in Indiana."18 We also had provided Wallace with a less obtrusive
                    escort; Gordon St. Angelo, 8th District Democratic chairman, and Royal Stauffer, a friend of mine
                    and former agent for the Federal Bureau of Investigation, watched the Wallace performance carefully
                    and called reports back to Core at state Democratic headquarters. Their firsthand reports were
                    helpful in determining our tactics to take whatever edge was possible off the Wallace public
                    appearances.
            The first day of the actual campaign had been a whirlwind of activity. This intense pace was to
                    become routine. The Indiana presidential preference primary, normally a dull and colorless political
                    event, was to become a continuing news story of national significance. One by one, out-of-town
                    reporters began drifting into 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Some of their names and faces were household words in much of the nation. Each of them
                    would check into a hotel, drop by McManus' statehouse office, and be ushered immediately
                    into my office where we would give them a thorough briefing. Often we would find ourselves reciting
                    the history of civil rights in Indiana. Most of the reporters wanted to hear the story of D. C.
                    Stephenson and his Ku Klux Klan. Among those who came to Indiana to cover the election were Walter
                    Cronkite of CBS; David Broder, 
                        Washington
                    
                    Evening Star; Herb Kaplow and Frank McGhee of NBC; Austin Wehrwein, 
                        New York
                    
                    Times; William Lawrence, ABC; Tony 
                  Ripley, Detroit
               
                    News; Joe Cumming, Jr., Newsweek; Robert Hollingsworth, 
                        Washington
                     Bureau, Dallas Times-Herald; Charles Bartlett, 
                        Washington
                     Bureau, 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Sun-Times; Stan Henden, Newsday; Robert Baker, 
                        Washington
                    
                    Post; Richard Madden, 
                        New York
                    
                    Herald Tribune; and many other fine newsmen.
            Many of the newsmen traveled with us and the Wallace entourage. Others ranged the state, talking to
                    Indiana citizens. CBS moved its entire news broadcast organization to a store front at
                            
                  Washington and Pennsylvania
                streets in downtown 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Across the street a pastry shop hung on its marquee: "Welcome Walter
                    Cronkite." All of the reporters stayed to 
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., 12.
               
                     watch the campaign unfold in those final hectic weeks. On April
                    25 they joined us at the annual Indiana Jefferson-Jackson Day dinner where our speaker was Senator
                    Edward M. (Ted) Kennedy, who told reporters at a statehouse news conference and later in his speech
                    that he strongly supported my effort in behalf of President Johnson.
            The president himself, who had by design remained aloof from the campaign, as he did all primaries in
                    1964, suddenly announced that he would make a flying tour of part of the Midwest and Appalachia on
                    April 29. I flew to 
                        South Bend
                     and joined him on a visit of job-training projects designed to ease that
                    city's economic crisis, which had been brought on by the closing of Studebaker Corporation
                    plants. We claimed virtually all the headlines in Indiana that day.
            Back in 
                  Indianapolis, Marion
                County Republican Chairman H. Dale 
                        Brown
                     and his Democratic counterpart, Judson F. Haggerty, issued an unprecedented joint
                    statement urging voters to ignore Wallace at the polls. And Methodist Bishop Richard C. Raines, in a
                    public statement, urged voters to reject the "unwholesome philosophy" of George
                    Wallace.
            
                    Gov. Wallace has made the proposed civil rights bill the central issue of his campaign. He has
                        described it as a bid for expanded federal authority by power-mad bureaucrats. I find nothing in
                        the proposed bill to justify these accusations. On the contrary, the bill seeks to guarantee for
                        all Americans the liberties spelled out in the Bill of Rights. It is actually in the finest
                        American tradition.
                
            Meanwhile, the Indiana Council of Churches had begun an aggressive campaign directed at its one
                    million Protestant church members. The 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Courier-Journal reported on April 30 that Dr. Grover Hartman, council executive
                    secretary, had characterized the effort as the "biggest drive we've had in the
                    five years I've been here."19 Actually, we had cooperated
                    closely with the Indiana council, asking them to do whatever they felt was a practical possibility.
                    Hartman and the Reverend Ernest Rueter of West 
                        Lafayette
                    , who was chairman of the council Legislative Department, threw their energies into the
                    campaign immediately. And they did more than merely talk. A packet of information on the nature of
                    the Wallace campaign was put together, and 1,500 of them were mailed throughout the state.
                    Recipients reproduced another estimated four thousand. Denomination executives suggested that their
                    pastors speak from the pulpit in support of the Civil Rights Bill, that 
                  
                     19
                            
                                Louisville
                            
                            Courier-Journal, April 30, 1964.
               
                     they point out the significant moral issue involved, and that
                    they cite Wallace's distortions of the bill's provisions. Rueter personally went
                    on radio and television to attack the Wallace campaign.
            In the days that followed, newspaper headlines reflected the cant and pace of the campaign: 
                        "WALLACE RUNNING POLICE STATE, WELSH SAYS"
                            "WALLACE HITS FEDERAL RULE IN VOTE BID" "GOVERNOR WELSH
                            CHARGES WALLACE BENT ON PARTY DESTRUCTION" "WALLACE RAPS COURT
                            RULING ON PRAYER" "WELSH STEPS UP WALLACE BLASTS"
                            "WALLACE MEETS WITH JEERS"
                     Later, former Governor Schricker, the Indiana Democratic party's patriarch, issued
                    a fighting endorsement of my candidacy. My good friend Lieutenant Governor Richard O. Ristine, a
                    Republican, "leaked" to newsmen his hope that I would win. "I hope Matt
                    clobbers him," newsmen quoted him as saying. Dallas Sells, president of the Indiana
                    AFL-CIO, who had belabored me publicly for many months because I had accepted the sales tax levy in
                    the 1963 tax package, came forth to bury the hatchet. At a morning news conference in my office he
                    pinned on a Welsh button and issued a statement supporting me.
            The only serious political trouble we saw developing was in 
                        Lake County
                     where some local Democratic politicians did not appear to be following our lead because
                    they feared getting caught in the expected "white backlash" vote. To compound the
                    situation, there were no television stations in 
                        Lake County
                    , and we could not afford to purchase radio and television time in the Greater 
                        Chicago
                     market. Thus we simply did not get our message to the people.
            Writing in the 
                        New York
                    
                    Wall Street Journal, Joseph W. Sullivan said in a feature article that Wallace
                    seemed sure to roll up "an imposing share" of the Democratic primary vote. After
                    traveling the state, Sullivan put together an excellent article. In part, he wrote: 
                        The Alabaman is leaving little Indiana territory untilled. Yesterday he addressed a
                            convention of the Masonic-affiliated Order of the Eastern Star here in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , held a press conference in 
                                South Bend
                             and spoke there at Notre Dame University.
                        [But] if it weren't for the tax issue, most Indiana politicians agree, Gov. Welsh
                            would smother his opponent. …20
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  20
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Wall Street Journal, April 30, 1964, p. 1.
            
            
            
               Reproduced from 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, April 22, 1964.
            
            
            It was true we were greatly worried that citizens would waste their vote on Wallace in an attempt to
                    strike back at me for signing the new tax package. Reporters told us many times that in interviews
                    with voters they found them not antagonistic to the pending Civil Rights Bill or the black movement
                    toward social justice in general. They would, however, vow to vote for Wallace to register their
                    disagreement with actions taken by my administration. Despite this worry, we could not think of any
                    effective way to offset the accumulated barnacles of more than three years in office. There was
                    nothing to be gained by altering our campaign strategy.
            Perhaps the most perceptive picture of Wallace the campaigner was written by Jules Loh of the 
                        Washington
                     office of the Associated Press. He found the 
                        Alabama
                     governor nervous, sometimes apparently frightened by the crowds of pickets he met at
                    his speaking engagements. He also found Wallace a master on the speaker's platform. 
                        On a speaker's platform, George Wallace is in his element. He can assess an audience
                            quickly, and he has an uncanny knack of putting an unfriendly group somewhat on the
                            defensive.
                        On this occasion [
                                Terre Haute
                             speech], for example, he said:
                        "As you know, I'm opposed to the civil rights bill now pending in the
                            Senate, and today I'd like to tell you why. But first, how many of you are in favor
                            of the bill?"
                        A forest of hands shot up.
                        "I see. And how many of you have read the bill?
                        "About four or five. You think I'm a racist because I oppose this bill.
                            What am I to think of you, who support it without knowing what's in
                        it?"
                     It was an effective trick he used again and again.
            The Welsh campaign now pulled out all the stops. We scheduled a ten minute videotaped statement by
                    me, titled "A Solemn Appeal to Decency," on television stations around the state.
                    We ran 240 television spot announcements, full-page advertisements in Sunday and Monday newspapers,
                    and two dozen more showings of Morgan's "Tail Wind George" talk; we
                    scheduled press conferences and an 
                        Indianapolis
                     telethon for Morgan and Dabbs, who had flown in to join me in an 11th District rally at
                    the Indiana Roof ballroom, and literally dozens of speeches by Democratic officeholders and
                    candidates.
            Our "paper" committee, the Indiana Committee for Responsible Government, continued
                    to issue daily press releases explaining the lack of truth behind the Wallace statements.  The Indiana AFL-CIO bought full-page newspaper advertisements urging
                    members and others to support me against Wallace. Our propaganda had become a veritable flood. Each
                    Wallace spot announcement, program, or advertisement was either preceded, followed, or joined by our
                    messages. On Friday, May 1, David S. Broder wrote in the 
                        Washington
                    
                    Evening Star: 
                        The Indiana Democratic Party has committed its full prestige and over $75,000 from
                            its treasury to defeating Gov. George C. Wallace in Tuesday's primary election.
                        Church and civic leaders, virtually all the state's newspapers, top Indiana union
                            officials and even some Republicans have joined a well-coordinated drive to minimize the 
                                Alabama
                             states' rights spokesman's vote.
                        What is clear is that here in Indiana every bit of political muscle in one of the
                            Nation's most effective Democratic organizations and every bit of respectable
                            opinion that could be marshaled has been thrown into the fight against Gov. Wallace.21
                  
                    
                
            In the closing days of the campaign it became apparent that we were making headway, that Wallace had
                    failed to build up the momentum he had achieved in 
                        Wisconsin
                     and had expected to gain in Indiana. He was smarting especially from the Morgan
                    television show, and he tried to discredit Morgan personally in a last-ditch 
                        Indianapolis
                     news conference. A final poll by Louis Harris and Associates confirmed that we had
                    turned the tide. Wallace would have gained 33 percent of the Democratic vote if the primary had come
                    less than a week earlier than May 5. But he was losing ground rapidly.
            Eugene J. Cadou, dean of Indiana's political writers and a mainstay of United Press
                    International, had written: "There is no legal way to prevent any number of Republicans
                    from voting for 
                        Alabama
                     Gov. George C. Wallace in Indiana's presidential primary."22 It was true. A Republican voter wishing to cast his vote for Wallace needed
                    only to ask for a Democratic ballot at his polling place. If challenged by a Democratic official, he
                    could retain the Democratic ballot simply by signing an affidavit that he would vote for a majority
                    of the Democratic nominees in the fall election. We were concerned about the possibility of a
                    Republican crossover vote against me and already had advised the party organization that the poll
                    workers should be especially alert and ready to challenge any suspected voters.
            Wallace did not ignore the potential crossover either. In a final news conference he dropped a strong
                    hint for the Republican 
                  
                     21
                            
                                Washington
                            
                            Evening Star, May 1, 1964.
                  
                     22
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Sun-Commercial, April 15, 1964.
               
                     vote when he declared that a voter crossing party lines, then
                    supporting his own party in the fall, would be doing "nothing morally wrong."
            Christian Freedom Fighters, a right-wing organization with a post office box address in Milwaukee,
                    thought so highly of the crossover vote it bought paid advertisements in Indiana newspapers and
                    printed a facsimile of the affidavit necessary to avert successful challenge at the polls.23 The appearance of a paid advertisement sponsored by an extremist right-wing
                    organization did not surprise us. There had been many rumors of right-wing financial support for
                    Wallace. He was careful not to discourage support from the John Birch Society. More specifically, we
                    knew his campaign had stirred up bigots and hate organizations inside Indiana and elsewhere. For
                    example, the Christian Freedom Fighters sent one of their members to Indiana to participate
                    personally in supporting the Wallace campaign. This person appeared in a meeting in 
                        Elkhart
                     in which he urged support of Wallace. The meeting was held in the home of a clergyman
                    whose wife was an active member of the John Birch Society. Present at the meeting were a number of
                    active members of the 
                        South Bend
                     unit of the American Nazi party. Furthermore, perennial hatemonger Gerald L. K. Smith
                    sent an emergency message to a list of Hoosier supporters asking for the support of Wallace, whom he
                    called "this great, good, fine fearless, patriotic, Christian young man."24 We also knew that some Republicans and members of the John Birch Society had
                    signed the original Wallace petition while they were at the same time running as delegates to the
                    GOP national convention. Other Birch Society members helped with the busywork in the Wallace
                    headquarters in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The campaign drew to a close at the tiny hamlet of St. Anthony in 
                        Dubois County
                     before a rally of 8th District Democrats. We finished the campaign with great relief.
                    My staff and I were physically and mentally exhausted.
            May 5 was a beautiful day for an election, and a record number of voters turned out. Core and his
                    staff suggested a contest, and we wrote our predictions of Wallace's percentages of the
                    Democratic and total votes, then dropped them into a hat. By evening, more than twenty reporters had
                    gathered in our statehouse offices. We watched as the television networks began their coverage; CBS
                    from its downtown store front, ABC 
                  
                     23 See, for example, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, May 4, 1964.
                  
                     24 Gerald L. K. Smith to "Dear Good Friend," April
                            14, 1964, photocopy of letter in possession of the author.
               
                     from our own WLWI studios, and 
                        NBC
                    from the local Time-Life Broadcast outlet, WFBM. By 9:00 p.m. it was clear that we had
                    won, with only the final tabulation of total votes and percentages to be reckoned. I called the
                    reporters together and submitted to their questions. Then I drove to the three television election
                    headquarters and appeared with newsmen. There was no jubilation in our camp that
                    night—only relief that it was all over and that we had held our ground.
            As for Wallace, he told his supporters gathered in the Claypool Hotel: "We shook the eye
                    teeth of the liberals in 
                        Wisconsin
                     and you folks have shaken their wisdom teeth here."
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News reported: 
                        Wallace was buoyant, even cocky, early in the evening as first returns appeared to give him
                            as high as 35 per cent of the Democratic vote.
                        As the evening wore on and his share of the tally settled around 30 per cent or slightly
                            lower, he maintained a high humor and insisted that "anything over 25 per cent will
                            be a real victory."25
                  
                     The next day he again publicly claimed his "victory" and flew back to 
                        Alabama
                     where he prepared to plunge into the primary campaign in 
                        Maryland
                    . There he was to gain his greatest vote total and percentages in his three-state
                    northern foray.
            When the official canvass was made, it showed that I had won by 203,377 votes. The total primary vote
                    was 978,718, just short of the million voters most of us had predicted. I had received 376,023 and
                    Wallace 172,646. Daly got 15,160 and Latham 8,067. Carpenter-Swain won 7,140 votes. Core increased
                    his reputation as a seer when it was discovered that he had predicted Wallace would get 29.8 percent
                    of the Democratic vote and 17.8 of the total. The actual computation showed the final percentages
                    were 29.8 and 17.6.
            Wallace emerged strongest, as we had expected, in Indiana's northwestern Lake and Porter
                    counties. He carried 
                        Lake County
                    , which comprised the 1st Congressional District, by 1,300 votes. He also won 
                        Porter County
                    , one of ten counties in the 2nd Congressional District, by a vote of 3,160 to 2,697.
                    Although his 1st District victory would have given Wallace three Indiana votes at the Democratic
                    National Convention, we decided instead to invoke the unit rule procedure and send our delegates in
                    an "at large" status. This decision later brought criticism from newspaper
                    editorialists, but the controversy was slight and soon forgotten.
            
               
                  25
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, May 6, 1964, p. 33.
            
            
            It was all over. Only a few short weeks before, we had been most concerned about our last few months
                    in office, the question of who would be our party's gubernatorial nominee, how should we
                    work toward a successful statewide campaign in November, and could we find new and more effective
                    ways to hand over the reins of political power within the party organization and within the
                    government to the next administration. All that had been put aside when we found ourselves in the
                    national spotlight, faced with an adversary wholly new in American politics.
            In retrospect it seemed to have been everybody's campaign. Civic, fraternal, and religious
                    organizaions had found themselves suddenly and uncharacteristically caught up in a heated political
                    campaign. Support for a lame-duck and generally unpopular Democratic governor had come from
                    Republicans as well as members of his own party. Newspapers and radio and television stations had
                    given intensive coverage to the campaign, and they did a superb job under most difficult
                    circumstances, for they too felt the emotional turmoil that the Wallace incursion created.
            In the days and weeks that followed almost everyone had his say about the what and
                    the how of it. Pundits scratched their heads over such oddities as the Wallace
                    victory in the city of Gary, where he carried every all-white precinct, although Dr. Alexander
                    Williams, a black, won the nomination for a major 
                        Lake County
                     office and State Representative James Hunter, an East 
                        Chicago
                     Negro, again led the county's legislative voting. On Capitol Hill southern
                    senators claimed that Wallace had run up amazing vote totals, clearly indicating a revolt in the
                    North against civil rights legislation. The Civil Rights Bill supporters replied that, if the two
                    primaries were to be regarded as a test of sentiment on the measure, they would be more than
                    satisfied with the 70 percent of the total 
                        Wisconsin
                     and Indiana votes cast against the 
                        Alabama
                     governor.
            In a May 6 news conference President Johnson commented mildly on the outcome of our race in Indiana:
                    "He [Wallace] got 24 per cent of the vote in 
                        Wisconsin
                     and a little less than 20 per cent of the vote in Indiana. I wouldn't think
                    that … would be any overwhelming endorsement of a man's record."26 Writing in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Times, Tom LaRochelle saw the election this way: 
                        Gov. Matthew Welsh won the nationally significant Indiana Democratic primary over 
                                Alabama
                             Gov. George Wallace because:
                        
                     
                        26
                                
                                    Washington
                                
                                Post, May 7, 1964.
                  
                        
                        —He MADE the decision to get tough and lash out at the smooth-talking Alabaman,
                            who was grabbing laughs and applause as he refused to talk about segregation.
                        —He PUT civil rights in terms of a moral issue, and quickly drew widespread
                            support from churchmen and labor leaders.
                        —He WORKED hard to illustrate that Hoosiers on the whole are not as opposed to
                            granting civil rights as Wallace backers thought.27
                  
                    
                
            Clearly the phenomenon of George Wallace was a political force to reckon with in an era of sometimes
                    violent social change. In the Milwaukee suburbs and the Calumet steel towns, where white Americans
                    felt threatened by blacks, there was voter reprisal. Whether future candidates for public office in
                    even more tense circumstances could cynically use the so-called "white backlash"
                    to advantage remained to be seen. But the civil rights movement had arrived as a domestic political
                    issue of large, if as yet undefined, proportions.
            The effect of the Wallace campaigns in 
                        Wisconsin
                    , Indiana, and later 
                        Maryland
                     were negligible. The Civil Rights Act of 1964 became law. Wallace did, undoubtedly,
                    increase his political strength in 
                        Alabama
                     by showing himself capable of becoming a national figure, and that was a part of his
                    plan. Charles Bartlett, who undertook to explain what it all meant, wrote on May 6: 
                        Wallace's Indiana campaign is a gimmick, and the answer to it was well expressed by
                            Abraham Lincoln as his train paused in 
                                Indianapolis
                             on the way to 
                                Washington
                             on Feb. 11, 1861.
                        "I appeal to you to constantly bear in mind," the President-elect said,
                            "that not with politicians, not with Presidents, not with office-seekers, but with
                            you is the question: shall the union and shall the liberties of this country be preserved to
                            the latest generation."28
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  27
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Times, May 6, 1964, p. 1.
               
                  28 The quotation from Abraham Lincoln's speech had been inscribed
                        on a brass plate and affixed to the front of the Claypool Hotel, since razed, in downtown 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
         
         
         
            The Struggle to Establish Lutheranism in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County, Indiana, 1826–1850
            
                    Henry G. Waltmann
                    ∗
                
            
               
                        Tippecanoe
                     was only one of the many counties in early Indiana where the would-be founders of
                    Lutheran churches encountered serious difficulties. There, as in all but a few eastern and southern
                    parts of the state, several other Christian denominations organized congregations and started to
                    erect church buildings well before the "House of Luther" arrived on the scene.1 Indeed, during its first decade—from 1826 to 1836—
                        Tippecanoe
                     County seemed a particularly unpromising field for a resident ministry representing the
                    oldest of Protestant faiths. Nevertheless, by the end of 1850—nominally the close of the
                    pioneer period in Indiana—four pastors were tending six Lutheran or semi-Lutheran
                    congregations and at least one mission in the 
                        Lafayette
                     area.2 This striking, hard-won progress evolved from an interplay
                    of personalities, challenges, and events within the Upper 
                        Wabash
                     Valley. Because early Lutheran experiences in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County contribute to an explanation of the rise of Indiana's fifth largest
                    religious group3
                    
                  
                     ∗ The late Henry G. Waltmann was assistant professor of
                            history, Purdue University, West 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana. The following article was edited for publication after
                            Waltmann's death on November 9, 1978.
                  
                     1 Martin L. Wagner, The 
                                    Chicago
                                 Synod and Its Antecedents (Waverly, 
                                Iowa
                            , 1909), 3–9; C. Robert Defenderfer, Lutheranism at the
                                Crossroads of America (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1948), 14–15; Henry G. Waltmann, ed., History of the Indiana-
                                    Kentucky
                                 Synod of the Lutheran Church in America: Its Development, Congregations,
                                and Institutions (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1971), 1–4; Rudolph F. Rehmer, ed., "Sheep without
                            Shepherds: Letters of Two Lutheran Traveling Missionaries, 1835–1837,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, LXXI (March, 1975), 21–22.
                  
                     2 Richard P. DeHart, Past and Present of 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                 County, Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1909), I, 151, 174–261; Michael Diehl, Biography of
                                Rev. Ezra Keller, D.D., Founder and First President of Wittenberg College
                                    (
                        Springfield, Ohio
                     , 1935), 72–73; see also notes 6, 10,
                            12, 18, 20 below.
                  
                     3 Lutherans of all bodies comprise the world's largest
                            Protestant denomination and are outnumbered by only Roman Catholics, Baptists, and United
                            Methodists in the 
                                United States
                            . They have never been as prominent in Indiana, however, as in some neighboring
                            states. Superficial statistics for 1850 indicate that the combined seating capacity of
                            Lutheran churches in Indiana
               
                     and also appear to approximate developments throughout the
                    Midwest, they deserve a more systematic examination than heretofore accorded them by denominational
                    historians.
            A combination of factors slowed the formation of Lutheran parishes in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County, one of the most basic of which was the relatively late and sparse influx of
                    German settlers. Although persons of German ancestry were not of one mind on religious matters, the
                    overwhelming majority of the Hoosier pioneers who joined Lutheran churches were linked to that
                    nationality by birth or marriage. Hence the dramatic increase in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County's total population, which rose from 7,187 in 1830 to 19,377 in 1850,
                    was not in itself indicative of an improving environment for Lutheran endeavors. The surnames listed
                    by the census takers in 1840 and 1850 suggest that only a small fraction—perhaps no more
                    than a tenth—of the county's inhabitants in the 1840s were of German descent.
                    Moreover, just 282 German-born citizens and immigrants were living in the county in 1850, after a
                    decade of massive emigration from the German provinces to the 
                        United States
                    .4 By comparison, the proportion of German-born residents in the
                    Lutheran stronghold of 
                        Allen County
                     was then ten times as great.5
            
            Yet the demographic obstacle to Lutheran missions in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County was neither as evident nor as persistent in some townships as in others. The
                    bulk of the county's pioneers were relocated Indianians or Ohioans; a sizeable element
                    hailed from southern states such as 
                  Virginia,
                            Maryland, Tennessee, and Kentucky
               ; and a
                    smaller segment came from eastern states, led by 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Americanized Germans from 
                  Ohio,
                            Pennsylvania, Tennessee
               , and elsewhere homesteaded in the 
                  then trailed, in order, that of the Methodists, Baptists, Presbyterians, Christians
                            (Disciples of Christ), Friends, and Catholics. In recent years Hoosier Lutherans have ranked
                            in church membership behind the Catholic, Methodist, Baptist, and Church of Christ groups.
                            U.S., Seventh Census, 1850 (
                                Washington
                            , 1853), 799–807, 1021–22.
                  
                     4 U.S., Fifth Census, 1830 (
                                Washington
                            , 1832), 44–45; ibid., Seventh Census, 1850, p.
                            756; ibid., Sixth Census, 1840, population schedules for 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County, Indiana (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. M-704, roll 95);
                                ibid., Seventh Census, 1850, population schedules for 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County, Indiana (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. M-432, roll 175).
                            Elfrieda Lang notes that there were 573,225 German-born people in the 
                                United States
                             in 1850 and that 28,584 of them resided in Indiana. Elfrieda Lang,
                            "German Immigration to 
                                Dubois County
                            , Indiana, during the Nineteenth Century," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XLI (March, 1945), 143–44.
                  
                     5 For information concerning the German population in Allen and other
                            counties, see Elfrieda Lang, "An Analysis of Northern Indiana's Population
                            in 1850," Indiana Magazine of History, XLIX (March, 1953),
                            17–60.
               
                     eastern half of the county, principally in 
                        Fairfield
                    , Sheffield, Perry, 
                  Washington,
                            Wea, and Tippecanoe
                townships. 
                        Lafayette
                    , the centrally located county seat that was platted in western 
                        Fairfield
                     Township in 1825, drew many of these emigrants as well as two thirds of the native
                    Germans present in 1850.6 Understandably, therefore, certain neighborhoods
                    showed an interest in Lutheranism long before the area west of 
                        Lafayette
                    .
            Another temporary disincentive for the beginning of Lutheran congregations in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County was the prior activity of other Christian bodies. Prominent among these
                    denominations were some of the groups most identified with the variety of evangelistic preaching,
                    elemental beliefs, and democratized polities popularized by successive outpourings of the Second
                    Awakening movement of about 1795–1850.7 The Methodists, who dominated
                    Indiana religiously by midcentury, were busy in the county before it was established. Inclined to
                    regard Lutherans as unregenerated subjects for conversion, they rapidly organized congregations in
                    every township and completed the first church edifice in 
                        Lafayette
                     in 1830.8 Similarly, both the New School Presbyterians, who broke
                    away from a general fellowship inaugurated in 
                        Lafayette
                     in 1828, and the Baptists, who organized there in 1832, soon conducted worship services
                    at a number of town and country sites. In addition, the 1830s witnessed the formation of a pair of
                    rural United Brethren congregations, the introduction of one or two 
                        Quaker
                     meeting houses in Union Township, and the founding of three more 
                        Lafayette
                     parishes: St. John's Protestant Episcopal Church (1837), St. Mary and St.
                    Martha's Roman Catholic Church (1837), and First Church of Christ (1839). Meanwhile, little
                    more than occasional preaching by itinerant pastors was available to Lutheran and German Reformed
                    settlers who shared makeshift quarters in and around Perry Township.9
            
            A further impediment to the cultivation of Lutheranism in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County was a long-standing shortage of clergymen. In 1816, when Indiana entered the
                    Union, there were only about 150 Lutheran pastors in the 
                        United States
                    , and just one of them—John L. Markert—then lived in the Hoosier
                        state.10
                    
                  
                     6 U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, population schedules for 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County.
                  
                     7 Clifton E. Olmstead, Religion in America: Past and
                                Present (Englewood Cliffs, N.J., 1961), 31–88f; William W. Sweet, Revivalism in America: Its Origin, Growth and Decline (
                                New York
                            , 1944), passim; Donald G. Mathews, "The Second Great
                            Awakening as an Organizing Process, 1780–1830: A Hypothesis," American Quarterly, XXI (Spring, 1969), 23–43.
                  
                     8 DeHart, Past and Present of 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                 County, I, 231–32.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., 241–61; "Checklist of Disbanded
                            Churches" (Archives, Indiana-
                                Kentucky
                             Synod of the Lutheran Church in America, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ).
                  
                     10 Defenderfer, Lutheranism at the Crossroads,
                            15–17.
               
                     Twenty years later, despite the extensive use of synodical
                    apprenticeships and the gradual addition of seminaries, the supply of ordained ministers still fell
                    far short of demand. At that point not over a dozen active pastors resided in Indiana and attempted,
                    with some outside assistance, to meet the needs of approximately thirty-five scattered
                    congregations. Over the next fourteen years there was more than a fivefold increase in the number of
                    Lutheran pastors in the state,11 but a similar multiplication of congregations
                    meant that many parishioners were fortunate if they obtained the part-time services of
                    circuit-riding preachers whose visits were vulnerable to bad weather, poor roads, and disease.
                    Furthermore, a majority of the first ministers depended mainly on secular occupations such as
                    farming, teaching, and the practice of medicine or on sundry trades for the support of their
                        families.12 They could not, therefore, devote as much time to the
                    administration of their churches as most modern men of the cloth.
            Even with more German pioneers, less competition, and plenty of full-time pastors, however, it is
                    doubtful that the Lutheran church would have quickly achieved a strong and united ministry in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County. Neither the German-American Lutherans who had been exposed to the religious and
                    cultural influences of their adopted country nor those who came directly from the fatherland to the
                    frontier were theologically homogeneous. The former varied in their opinions on the primary
                    teachings of Martin Luther, on "new measures" such as protracted meetings and
                    "Methodistic" preaching, on the use of English or German in worship, and on
                    inter-Lutheran or Lutheran-Reformed cooperation. The latter, coming from regions with "many
                    shadings" of religious thought, included pietists who stressed faith over doctrine,
                    confessional purists who clung to the letter of Luther's writings, rationalists who
                    considered the church a superstitious social agency, and unionists who favored close ties with
                    members of the German Reformed church.13 These diverse positions produced a
                    confusing 
                  
                     11 The statistics on pastors and congregations are based on an
                            extensive review of synodical minutes, county and congregational sources, clerical rolls,
                            and other materials. Approximately 190 Lutheran or part-Lutheran congregations were formed
                            in Indiana before the end of 1850. On the methods used by early synods to train pastors and
                            on the founding of a much-needed seminary in 
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , in
                            1833, see Willard D. Allbeck, A Century of Lutherans in 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (Yellow Springs, 
                                Ohio
                            , 1966), 34–36, 70–75.
                  
                     12 Allbeck, Lutherans in 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , 34; Wagner, 
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 Synod, 31, 45–47f.
                  
                     13 Carl E. Schneider, The German Church on the American
                                Frontier (
                                St. Louis
                            , 1939), 6–30; Wagner, 
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 Synod, 9–15; Allbeck, Lutherans in 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , 15–16. An excellent statement on the heterogeneity of
                            early Lutherans is presented in Alexander J. Imhoff, History of the Evangelical
                                Lutheran Synod of Miami (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1893), 15.
               
                     array of synodical organizations, the missionary efforts of
                    which were often hampered by institutional concerns.14
            
            The cause of Lutheranism in west central Indiana was also hurt by a poor public image. Non-Lutherans
                    commonly perceived the supporters of this brand of Protestantism as stubbornly clannish proponents
                    of a "foreign" church. The Lutherans' propensity for traditional
                    liturgies, sacramental rites, catechetical instruction, and educated pastors struck some Protestant
                    critics as objectionable "Catholic" traits. In the 1830s and 1840s, when ardent
                    nativists raised vitriolic outcries against new immigrant groups and unleashed special attacks upon
                    incoming Catholics, such accusations were not taken lightly. Moreover, the perpetuation of the
                    German tongue and customs in Lutheran families tended to reinforce the notion that they did not mix
                    well in the social melting pot. Consequently, American-born Lutherans who settled in places where
                    they were vastly outnumbered and deprived of regular pastoral guidance were often tempted to change
                    their religious affiliation.15
            
            Much of the difficulty of bringing another Christian faith into 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County, however, may have been unrelated to creeds or national feelings. Historians and
                    ministers have frequently credited the pervasive secularism and materialism of the frontier with
                    jeopardizing all religious operations during the speculative era when virgin forests were giving way
                    to cultivated farms, burgeoning villages, and economic exploitation. Early Hoosiers have sometimes
                    been described as "openly defiant unbelievers" and "ungodly
                    cynics," and undoubtedly a proportionate number of such individuals settled in or near the
                    booming "Star City" of 
                        Lafayette
                    .16 According to local histories, enterprises such as the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal (open from Fort 
                        Wayne
                     to 
                        Lafayette
                     in 1837 and to 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1843) 
                  
                     14 By midcentury Hoosier Lutherans had been served by pastors from the
                            Evangelical Lutheran Ministerium and Synod of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , the Evangelical Lutheran Synod of Indiana, the Evangelical Lutheran Synod of
                            the West, the Evangelical Lutheran Synod of 
                                Ohio
                             and Adjacent States, the English Evangelical Lutheran Synod of 
                                Ohio
                            , the Evangelical Lutheran Synod of Miami, the Evangelical Lutheran Olive Branch
                            Synod, and the Evangelical Lutheran Synod of 
                        Missouri, Ohio
                     , and
                            Other States—all mentioned below—plus the 
                                Illinois
                            , Southwest, and Wittenberg synods and the Evangelical Kirchenverein des
                            Westens.
                  
                     15
                            Lutheran Observer, May 8, 1835; Allbeck, Lutherans of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , 84–90; Rehmer, "Sheep without
                            Shepherds," 22; Defenderfer, Lutheranism at the Crossroads, 15;
                            Ray Allen Billington, The Protestant Crusade (
                                Chicago
                            , 1964), 32–261.
                  
                     16 Wagner, 
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 Synod, 9; see also Rehmer, "Sheep without
                            Shepherds," 65–68.
               
                     attracted more than people and money; they also brought
                    violence, disorder, drunkenness, gambling, sabbath breaking, and other vices.17
                    The extent to which these negative influences limited religious involvement in the county cannot be
                    determined with any exactness, partly because the accounts of immorality may be exaggerated and
                    partly because there are no reliable statistics on the collective memberships of local churches for
                    the period through 1850. Presumably, however, the level of religious participation was appreciably
                    lower in that era than the 43 percent figure reported in 1967.18
            
            Whatever the odds, there were eventually enough devout, steadfast Lutherans within the
                    county's mushrooming population to stimulate a demand for their own spiritual institutions.
                    Initially, those who felt this natural impulse, chiefly farmers and artisans from older states, were
                    too scattered and disorganized to have much effect. Perhaps this was one reason why the stay of
                    Andrew Simon, the first Lutheran pastor known to have officiated in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County, was so brief. Simon, who had farmed and served several congregations west of
                            
                  Dayton, Ohio
               , from 1809 to 1826, performed a wedding in 
                        Lafayette
                     in July of 1828. But tradition has it that he turned increasingly to the practice of
                    medicine, while the census reports for 1830 and 1840 show that he lived in 
                        Vermillion
                     County in those years.19
            
            Between 1828 and the mid-1830s a growing influx of German-Americans, mostly from 
                  Pennsylvania and Ohio
               , broadened the base for Lutheran development in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County. Some of these newcomers, bearing family names such as Isley, Buck, and Miller,
                    may have worshipped informally in private homes before petitioning the doctrinally conservative
                    Joint Synod of 
                        Ohio
                     for pastoral aid. In 1832 John Jacob Gruber of Lewisburg, 
                        Ohio
                    , a traveling gravestone cutter and licensed preacher for that body, reported that
                    "five Congregations at the 
                        Wabash
                    " were seeking a missionary.20 Since 
                  
                     17 DeHart, Past and Present of 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                 County, I, 370–71, 414; Jane C. Harvey, comp., History of St. John's [Protestant Episcopal] Church (
                                Lafayette
                            , 1887), 4.
                  
                     18 Indiana, State Planning Services Agency, The Indiana
                                Fact Book (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1976), 247.
                  
                     19 Wagner, 
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 Synod, 30–31; Lorin L. Spenny et al., Fruits
                                of Faith Alone: The Story of Lutheranism in the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Valley, 1803–1976 (Lima, 
                                Ohio
                            , 1977), 6–21; Allbeck, Lutherans in 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , 27–30; Marriage Records, vol. I, p. 27 (
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Historical Society, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana); U.S., Fifth Census, 1830, population schedules for 
                                Vermillion
                             County, Indiana (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. M-19, roll 26);
                                ibid., 1840 (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. M-704, roll
                            96).
                  
                     20 U.S., Sixth Census, 1840, population schedules for 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County; Evangelical Lutheran Synod of 
                                Ohio
                             and Adjacent States, Minutes, 1832, p. 15.
               
                     Gruber's vast circuit reached far into Indiana, where
                    he had founded Zion Lutheran Church in East 
                        Germantown
                     (Pershing) in 
                        Wayne
                     County in 1822, it is quite possible that he had just completed the first of a number
                    of visits to 
                  Clinton and Tippecanoe
                counties. His appearance may have led Stephen Slipher in 1832
                    to deed an acre of land in northwestern 
                        Clinton County
                     to a group of Lutherans and Presbyterians who were seeking a church site. There, four
                    years later, Gruber organized Slipher's Evangelical Lutheran English and German Reformed
                        Church.21 Previously, at about the time of the aforementioned deeding,
                    Gruber supposedly established another Lutheran-Reformed group a short distance down a fork of
                    Wildcat Creek in southeastern Perry Township of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County. Some of that congregation's infrequent worship services were held in
                    the log 
                        Oxford
                     Church, which was erected in 1830 by the Presbyterians.22
            
            But a few sermons now and then by itinerant preachers did not satisfy the spiritual thirst of fervent
                    Lutherans in the Upper 
                        Wabash
                     Valley area. When the youthful, newly ordained Ezra Keller toured Indiana for the
                    Missionary Society of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Ministerium of the Lutheran Church in 1836, he noted the frustrations of his
                    coreligionists in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County. His diary tells of a fall meeting in the "flourishing" town
                    of 
                        Lafayette
                     with seven brethren "who despair of getting a minister, and speak of uniting
                    with other Churches."23 This, he concluded in a report to the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Ministerium, was one of many places where a missionary would be sorely tested, not only
                    by rival denominations but by a preponderance of unchurched "Nothingarians" who
                    drank, frolicked, danced, feasted, ignored the Lord's Day, and carried on as
                    "perfect worldlings." Although he favored religious work in such uninviting
                    fields, Keller warned that a Lutheran minister who accepted such a call must be prepared
                    "to preach in both languages, to endure privations, to suffer hardships and to labor with
                    patience and hope amidst many discouragements."24
            
            If Keller had mixed feelings about the near-term prospects for his church's efforts in this
                    region, so did local Lutherans 
                  
                     21 C. R. Doty, History of the Fair Haven Lutheran Church
                                in 
                                    Madison
                                 Township, 
                                    Clinton County
                                , Indiana (Mulberry, Ind., 1936), 1; Wagner, 
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 Synod, 21, 46–47; Allbeck, Lutherans of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , 131; Spenny, Fruits of Faith, 14–38,
                            295.
                  
                     22 "Checklist of Disbanded Churches" (Archives, Indiana-
                                Kentucky
                             Synod); Thomas B. Helm, Combination Atlas Map of 
                                    Tippecanoe
                                 County (
                                Chicago
                            , 1878), 24.
                  
                     23 Diehl, Biography of Rev. Ezra Keller,
                            72–73.
                  
                     24
                            Lutheran Observer, December 14, 1836.
               
                     who observed the events of the next couple of years. On the
                    positive side they were gratified by the growing attention that they received from circuit-riding
                    pastors. Gruber sought them out and preached in various settlements when he came through on his
                    tombstone delivery wagon.25 Occasionally they may also have heard sermons from
                    the patriarchal Pastor John Markert after he moved to 
                        Fountain
                     County in about 1836. While farming and serving as the first president of the Indiana
                    Synod, which originated in 1835 as a very orthodox body, Markert did supply preaching for
                    Slipher's Church and other congregations.26 Under similar circumstances
                    some of the Lutherans who lived near 
                        Lafayette
                     became acquainted with the energetic, young Indiana Synod pastor, Eusebius S. Henkel of 
                        Lebanon
                    .27
            
            A fourth clergyman who sometimes preached in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County after moving to 
                        Greencastle
                     in the fall of 1837 was John P. Dagey.28 A former Virginian, Dagey
                    was a member of the Synod of the West (1835–1846), which disagreed with the Indiana Synod
                    on a number of issues. Whereas the Indiana Synod was constitutionally bound to the Augsburg
                    Confession and Luther's Small Catechism, the Synod of the West simply characterized them as
                    "substantially correct" guidelines. It not only drew criticism from the Indiana
                    Synod for this "indifferentism" but also for its affiliation with the federative
                    General Synod (founded in 1820), its openness to "new measure" ministries, its
                    willingness to commune non-Lutherans, and its support of ecumenical tract, temperance, missionary,
                    and Bible societies.29 Still, men like Dagey were convinced that dogmatic
                    adherence to the "Old Lutheranism" of Europe was inappropriate to the time and in
                    the region in which they were working. For example, in May of 1838 Dagey exultantly wrote of the
                        
                  
                     25 Wagner, 
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 Synod, 46–47.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., 70–72; Doty, History of Fair Haven
                            Church, 1; Report of the Transactions of the Evangelical Lutheran Synod of
                                Indiana, 1835, microfilm (Archives, Indiana-
                                Kentucky
                             Synod).
                  
                     27 Wagner, 
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 Synod, 69–70; Lutheran Observer, November
                            24, 1837; Evangelical Lutheran Synod of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , Minutes, 1839, Appendix, p. 11. Henkel was a son of Pastor
                            Philip Henkel, a 
                                Tennessee
                             Synod missionary who founded five Lutheran congregations in western and central
                            Indiana in 1830–1831.
                  
                     28
                            Lutheran Observer, January 1, November 30, 1833, February 8, November 7,
                            1834, May 11, September 28, 1838; Evangelical Lutheran Synod of the West, Proceedings, 1838–1840. Dagey's last name is spelled
                            "Daggy" in some sources.
                  
                     29 Defenderfer, Lutheranism at the Crossroads,
                            20–21, 30–32; John B. Gardner, "The Synod of the
                            West," Concordia Historical Institute Quarterly, I (January,
                            1929), 84–91.
               
                     progress of his recently organized Emanuel Church near
                    Craw-fordsville, where many of his baptized and confirmed members were also becoming
                    "converted … praying people." He explained: 
                        Our mode of procedure is as follows. 1st. We preach the plain and practical truth contained
                            in the sacred scriptures. 2d. We hold social meetings for prayer; during the intervals of
                            preaching, we have thought it not wrong or disorderly to introduce the "anxious
                            seat" or "mourner's bench" &c. These meetings
                            are characterized by great solemnity and Christian decorum, although sobbing and sighing are
                            audibly uttered by some. … We had a communion season last Sabbath: the meeting
                            commenced on the Thursday evening preceding, and ended on Sabbath at 10 o'clock,
                            P.M., and we can say of a truth, the Lord was with us.
                     30
                  
                    
                
            Yet, regardless of their approaches, the preachers who passed through every now and then only made
                    many Lutheran settlers more conscious of what they were missing. Their unabated desire for regular
                    pastoral leadership was underscored in an informative report which the Reverend Friedrick Wyneken
                    submitted to the Executive Committee of the Missionary Society of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in 1839. Wyneken, later a member and critic of the Synod of the West before joining the
                    Synod of 
                  Missouri, Ohio
               , and Other States, described the situation in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County in the fall of 1838.31 He observed that the residents of
                    settlements near 
                        Lafayette
                     were grateful for the preaching of Pastor Daniel Kohler, a fellow mission surveyor who
                    had traveled through the area a few months earlier. He also cited the problems some of these people
                    had recently had with "a certain Schlabach, a cooper by trade," who posed as a
                    minister. He likewise mentioned the embarrassment and disappointment that "a missionary of
                    another synod" (Gruber) had caused by buying an Americus town lot from "Mr.
                    Eisele" (Conrod Isley) at a fraction of current value, then failing to "come back
                    or send another," as agreed.32
            
            In addition, Wyneken made some personal observations on the feasibility of a six-church, 
                        Lafayette
                    -centered charge. Possibly because he had just come from 
                        Germany
                     and was more attuned to those who retained his native tongue than Keller had been,
                    Wyneken did not think that the county seat itself 
                  
                     30
                            Lutheran Observer, May 11, 1838.
                  
                     31 Jens Christian Roseland, American Lutheran
                                Biographies; or Historical Notices of Over Three Hundred and Fifty Leading Men of the
                                American Lutheran Church, from its Establishment to the Year 1890 …
                            (Milwaukee, 1890), 867–68; Evangelical Lutheran Synod of the West, Proceedings, 1839–1846.
                  
                     32 Evangelical Lutheran Synod of 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , Minutes, 1839, Appendix, pp. 5, 8, 10–11; Deed
                            Book H, p. 535, Deed Book I, p. 338–39, County Recorder's Office, 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Courthouse, 
                                Lafayette
                            , Indiana.
               
                     was ready for a Lutheran church. But the warm reception he got
                    in other places induced him to envision a circuit which might include rural congregations east and
                    south of 
                        Lafayette
                     as well as Slipher's in 
                        Clinton County
                    , Phanuel (founded in 1832) in 
                        Fountain
                     County, and Emanuel (1837) and North Union (1834) in 
                        Montgomery
                     County.33
            
            During the early 1840s the Lutheran movement in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County gathered momentum through a further accumulation of prospective members, the
                    arrival of a first resident pastor, and the formation of two congregations. The quickening pace of
                    settlement and work on the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal prompted Dagey to urge the Synod of the West in 1840 to sponsor missions
                    both in 
                        Lafayette
                     and at Hickory Grove, about six miles southwest of the county seat. The second
                    location, also known as Taylor Station, had been made attractive by a donation of land for the
                    construction of a Lutheran house of worship.34 However, before the Synod of the
                    West found a minister to respond to this opportunity, the Indiana Synod sent John Markert's
                    newly ordained, twenty-one-year-old son, Elias, into the county. After finding a home near 
                        Dayton
                     in Sheffield Township in 1842, young Markert began an eventful six-year ministry. While
                    overseeing the Slipher's and 
                        Oxford
                     congregations, he founded St. Jacob's Church near Rossville (
                        Clinton County
                    ) in 1842, started to preach in 1843 to the future members of St. Peter's
                    Lutheran Church at Camden (
                        Carroll County
                    ), and organized a pair of congregations—
                  Zion and St.
                    Paul
               's—in eastern 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County.35 Zion of Colburn began a 116-year ministry on January 5,
                    1843, and members soon erected a church on the south edge of that village.36
                    
                        St. Paul
                    's, a small group of rural families who gathered at least once a month in homes
                    or schoolrooms near Isley Cemetery in 
                        Fairfield
                     Township, was established by the fall of 1843 and remained active for about a
                        decade.37
            
            
               
                  33 Evangelical Lutheran Synod of 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , Minutes, 1839, Appendix, p. 10; "Checklist of Disbanded
                        Churches" (Archives, Indiana-
                            Kentucky
                         Synod).
               
                  34
                        
                            Lafayette
                        
                        Free Press, May 10, 1840; Evangelical Lutheran Synod of the West, Proceedings, 1840, p. 18. It is possible that Dagey or his successor, Pastor George
                        Surface, had tentatively organized the Hickory Grove congregation by 1843.
               
                  35 Doty, History of Fair Haven Church, 1; Lutheran Observer, January 4, 1850; "Zion Evangelical Lutheran Church,
                        Colburn," Disbanded Church Files (Archives, Indiana-
                            Kentucky
                         Synod); Evangelical Lutheran Synod of Indiana, Reports,
                        1842–1843.
               
                  36 "Zion Evangelical Lutheran Church, Colburn,"
                        Disbanded Church Files (Archives, Indiana-
                            Kentucky
                         Synod).
               
                  37
                        
                            St. Paul
                        's Evangelical Lutheran Church folder, Church Files (
                            Tippecanoe
                         County Historical Society); Evangelical Lutheran Synod of Indiana, Reports, 1843–1853.
            
            
            Before long, though, many of Elias Markert's parishioners were distressed to learn that
                    their pastor was picking up some decidedly un-Lutheran views. By about 1845 Markert and another new
                    pastor, Samuel Good of 
                        Boone
                     County, were pliably helping Indiana Synod President Ephraim Rudisill to expound his
                    novel concept of "Destructionism." Rudisill was a domineering, disputatious leader
                    who had won the admiration of many of his constituents by forcefully defending orthodox Lutheran
                    positions on infant baptism and communion in public debates and published tracts.38 But his theological rebuttal to the enticing Universalist doctrine of salvation for all men
                    departed from his own denomination's stand on eternal damnation for unredeemed sinners by
                    prophesying the immediate annihilation of lost souls on judgment day.39 When
                    Markert pushed Rudisill's idea and began questioning related aspects of Luther's
                    teachings, more than a few of his charges perceived him as an heretical "wolf in
                    sheep's clothing." Signs of this disenchantment can be seen in the fact that
                    pastors with opposing views were welcomed to the pulpits of churches such as Zion of Colburn well
                    before Markert moved to southern Indiana in the fall of 1848.40
            
            In the meantime the understaffed Synod of the West kept a hopeful eye on 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County. A new member of that synod, Pastor William G. Hunderdosse, made a strong appeal
                    for further missionary efforts in the north central Indiana county in a letter sent to the editor of
                    the Lutheran Observer on March 31, 1845. Hunderdosse was completing a survey of
                    mission fields that took him to 
                        Lafayette
                     twice before he accepted a call to 
                        Dubois County
                    .41 Published under the heading "BRETHREN COME OVER AND
                    HELP US!" his petition claims that no area in the 
                        United States
                     is more deserving of 
                  
                     38 Wagner, 
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 Synod, 97–100, 127–32; Defenderfer, Lutheranism at the Crossroads, 35. In 1842 Rudisill also coauthored a spirited
                            "Expose of the General Synod." See Evangelical Synod of Indiana, Report, 1842, pp. 9–25.
                  
                     39
                            Lutheran Observer, May 27, 1836, December 9, 1838; Wagner, 
                        
                                    Chicago
                                 Synod, 131, 135–36, 143.
                  
                     40
                            Lutheran Observer, April 2, 1847, January 4, 1850; Doty, History of Fair Haven Church, 1–2; Defenderfer, Lutheranism at the Crossroads, 35–36; Evangelical Lutheran Synod of
                            Indiana, Report, 1848, p. 14. Eventually returning to more orthodox views,
                            Markert moved back to 
                                Dayton
                             around 1852 and resumed his ministry at the 
                                Oxford
                             Church and nearby churches in 
                                Clinton County
                            .
                  
                     41
                            Lutheran Observer, November 24, 1843, April 12, June 28, 1844, November
                            21, 1845, February 5, 1847. In 1845 Hunderdosse was a recent graduate of 
                                Gettysburg
                             Seminary. He had received further training from the Reverend Abraham Reck of 
                                Cincinnati
                            , often considered the "Father of Lutheranism" around 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                     the attention of the Lutheran church than the stretch along the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal from the state of 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana. Hunderdosse's letter incorporates the enthusiasm of local boosters
                    in stressing these arguments: 
                        
                     
                                
                                    Lafayette
                                
                             is a flourishing place, surrounded by a country both rich and well cultivated, and
                            better supplied with water power than any other part of the U.S. which I have seen. This
                            place has increased very fast, but still the surrounding country is ahead of the town. The
                            market is very good, so that farmers and merchants have to come from a groat distance to
                            sell and buy; some come from 80 to 90 miles. When I came here last fall, I was quite
                            surprised to see the town so well filled with market wagons &c., so much so, that I
                            can say without hesitation, I have never seen a town of its size in which there was so much
                            business done.—
                        
                                    Lafayette
                                 must grow.
                  
                        In and around the town are a number of Lutherans and Lutheran descendants, so that I believe
                            this place ought by all means to be provided with a good pastor; and such an one would build
                            up a respectable congregation in a very short time. Ministers of other denominations who are
                            better acquainted in town than I am, are of the same opinion. A Protestant Methodist
                            minister told me that from 30 to 40 members would join us right off, provided we could
                            procure a suitable man, a man of piety and respectable qualifications, who can preach in the
                            English language.
                        There is a small flock gathered about six miles from town [at Hickory Grove] who are anxious
                            to have a minister, and there is much room for increase. These could do much for the support
                            of a minister. But we must act soon, or our golden time will be over here,
                            as it has been the case in many other places.42
                  
                    
                
            It may well have been Hunderdosse's plea which attracted the first pastor-in-residence to 
                        Lafayette
                     in the fall of 1845. This pioneer, Darias M. Hoyt, was licensed to preach by the
                    English Evangelical Synod of 
                        Ohio
                     on October 7, 1845, and, in spite of the loss of some personal possessions en route to
                    the West, he and his bride of a year were located at their new home by the end of that month. After
                    arranging to rent space in the district school at the foot of 
                        Illinois
                    —now Fourth—Street, the twenty-five-year-old Hoyt began preaching
                    there on the afternoon of November 2.43 Later, on November 13, the editor of the 
                        Lafayette
                    
                    
                  
                            Tippecanoe
                         Journal and Free Press commented on the planned formation of the
                    city's first Evangelical Lutheran congregation. This body, he informed his readers, was
                    "not known very extensively in this section of country" but was the oldest of
                    Protestant groups and was noted for a "pious and 
                  
                     42
                            Lutheran Observer, April 18, 1845.
                  
                     43 English Evangelical Synod of 
                                Ohio
                            , Minutes, 1845, p. 18; 
                                Lafayette
                            
                            
                        
                                    Tippecanoe
                                 Journal and Free Press, October 30, 1845; Lutheran
                                Observer, September 29, November 10, 1848. Hoyt was initially licensed as a
                            Congregationalist preacher in about 1843 but quickly changed denominations. He was ordained
                            by the Evangelical Lutheran Synod of Miami after joining that body in 1847.
               
                     learned ministry." Pastor Hoyt, the editor added, was a
                    Yale graduate who would "be found an intelligent and fearless advocate of the great
                    principles of the Reformation."44
            
            The ensuing months were busy ones for Hoyt as he built up a self-sustaining plural parish. His
                    appointment in March of 1845 as an agent of the fledgling Home Missionary Society of the General
                    Synod brought him a twelve-month stipend of fifty dollars. He soon announced, however, that he
                    needed no further aid since he expected to make ends meet on whatever support his regular
                    parishioners could add to his earnings as a part-time tutor of classical studies and supply
                        preacher.45 The chief source of his optimism was the improving status of the
                    congregations in 
                        Lafayette
                     and at Hickory Grove. "First Lutheran," the city church, continued to
                    meet in a 20-by 40-foot schoolroom or in borrowed churches. It did not get off to the quick start
                    that Hunderdosse had predicted such a congregation might. But the communicant membership rose from
                    seven to twenty-seven within six months; the "discouragingly small" attendance at
                    worship services gave way to "overflowing" audiences; and a "number of
                    individuals of character and influence" participated in the church's programs.46 Meanwhile, the Hickory Grove congregation, which was
                    "reorganized" with twenty members in 1845, proceeded to construct a 36-by 44-foot
                    church in 1846 for its "increasing and interesting" fellowship. Furthermore, Hoyt
                    revived the "distracted" Emanuel Church near 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , preaching there and in other places whenever his schedule allowed.47
            
            The type of ministry Hoyt pursued generally reflected his ties to Americanized synods. He remained
                    with the English Evangelical Synod of 
                        Ohio
                     until about 1847, then joined the 
                        Wabash
                     Conference of the Miami Synod, and helped to plan that group's realignment as
                    the Olive Branch Synod in 1848. Minor distinctions notwithstanding, all three bodies were associated
                    with the General Synod and therefore differentiated between fundamental and
                    "nonessential" doctrines, adopted "new measure" practices,
                    cooperated with theologically compatible Protestant groups, and backed social reform movements.48
                    
                  
                     44 This article also suggests that the new church's services
                            were to be bilingual.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            
                        
                                    Tippecanoe
                                 Journal and Free Press, April 29, 1846, September 18, December 11,
                            1846, September 29, 1848.
                  
                     46
                            Lutheran Observer, June 12, September 18, December 11, 1846.
                  
                     47
                            Ibid., September 18, 1846.
                  
                     48 Evangelical Lutheran Synod of Miami, Minutes,
                            1847–1848; Lutheran Observer, February 25, 1848, February 2,
                            1849; Defenderfer, Lutheranism at the Crossroads, 47–48;
                            Allbeck, Lutherans in 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     , 111–19; Imhoff, History of the Synod of
                            Miami, 9, 16–19.
               
                     Accordingly, in 1846 Hoyt engaged in an interdenominational
                    drive to get 
                        Lafayette
                     authorities to close barber shops, reading rooms, and places of business and amusement
                    on the sabbath. The following year he served as a committeeman for the local Sons of Temperance
                    Society. For a time he also preached at the vacant Associate Reformed Presbyterian Church.
                    Furthermore, in February of 1848, when his 
                        Wabash
                     Conference assembled in 
                        Lafayette
                    , he reported on a protracted meeting for "backslider" Lutherans which
                    he had just concluded at a local Methodist Episcopal Church. So many had renewed their faith, he
                    said, that his charge might soon require an assistant.49
            
            Just when Hoyt's work seemed to be bearing fruit, however, complications set in. Sometime in
                    the winter of 1847–1848 a migrating "Pastor Chambour" and, later, an
                    unidentified Swiss-born preacher temporarily conducted German services in a carpenter shop not far
                    from the school Hoyt was using. Next, in the late summer or early fall, Albert H. Lücken
                    of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , an immigrant teacher and licentiate of the nascent German Evangelical Lutheran Synod
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , visited 
                        Lafayette
                    . After ministering to some of the "Old Lutherans" who had responded
                    to his predecessors, Lücken encouraged them to form their own congregation.50 Since a portion of those who entertained this proposal had worshipped at
                    Hoyt's church, "First Lutheran's" attendance began to decline.
                    Perhaps this erosion was hastened by Hoyt's prolonged absence in the East during the latter
                    part of the summer of 1848 when he attended the General Synod convention in 
                        New York
                    .51
            
            Then tragedy struck. Shortly after his return to 
                        Lafayette
                    , Hoyt contracted the typhoid fever that was ravaging his community. He suffered from
                    this disease for about a week, finally passed away on October 16, and was laid to rest in what is
                    now Greenbush Cemetery. Obviously his sudden death, mourned by many laymen and fellow ministers as
                    well as by his widow and 
                  
                     49
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            
                        
                                    Tippecanoe
                                 Journal and Free Press, March 19, 1846, April 1, 1847; Sandford C.
                            Cox, Old Settlers along the 
                                    Wabash
                                
                      (
                                Lafayette
                            , 1860), 107; Lutheran Observer, February 25, 1848. Hoyt also
                            assisted fellow pastors such as Samuel McReynolds when they held protracted meetings in
                            other counties. Lutheran Observer, April 14, 1848.
                  
                     50 George Schumm et al., "History of Saint
                            James Congregation, 1850–1950," manuscript, updated in 1950 from 1900
                            version, pp. 1–3 (Archives, St. James Evangelical Lutheran Church, 
                                Lafayette
                            ); miscellaneous entries, "Centennial Scrapbook," ibid.; 
                                St. Louis
                            
                            Der Lutheraner, November 16, 1847; Hiram W. Beckwith, History
                                of Vigo and Parke Counties, together with Historic Notes on the 
                                    Wabash
                                 Valley (
                                Chicago
                            , 1880), 131.
                  
                     51
                            Lutheran Observer, October 27, 1848; Imhoff, History of the
                                Synod of Miami, 57–59.
               
                     two infant children, was a serious blow to the religious
                    outreach he had undertaken.52
            
            Indeed, intradenominational disharmony had a pivotal impact on Lutheran development in the county in
                    the aftermath of Hoyt's death. Ministers representing four separate
                    "schools" of Lutheranism soon lived or labored in the 
                        Lafayette
                     vicinity. Emerging congregations were therefore no longer handicapped by a deficiency
                    of pastoral leadership, but personal and doctrinal disagreements between those who administered the
                    word and sacrament gave rise to troublesome—sometimes bitter—disputes, both
                    within and between parishes.
            The vacancies at "First Church" and Hickory Grove were partially filled until
                    mid-1849 by Hoyt's coworker and neighbor, the Reverend Samuel McReynolds of Delphi.
                    McReynolds, another appointee of the General Synod's Home Missionary Society, had been a
                    cofounder of the Olive Branch Synod, which had adopted the motto "In Essentials, Unity; in
                    Non-Essentials, Liberty; In All Things, Charity."53 While fighting
                    "every species of infidelity and skepticism" in Clinton, Carroll, Cass, and Miami
                    counties, McReynolds made monthly trips to 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County to keep the shepherdless flocks there "together and
                        supplied."54 His repeated requests led his synod to assign Obadiah 
                        Brown
                     of 
                        Indianapolis
                     to the 
                        Lafayette
                     parish several weeks before the latter's ordination in October of 1849.55
            
            Sources differ as to when 
                        Brown
                     moved to 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County, but it is clear that he served that district for many years. He seems to have
                    had greater success in ministering to his farming constituents than in meeting the needs of those
                    who lived in town. Under his guidance the Hickory Grove Church improved its facilities and became
                    the site of the Olive Branch Synod convention of 1860. By 1852 
                        Brown
                     also managed to organize Wyandotte Church, a new mission southeast of 
                        Dayton
                    , in Sheffield Township.56 But the 
                        Lafayette
                     congregation evidently languished. Unsuccessful in its attempts to raise funds for a
                    house of worship and weakened by losses to the 
                  
                     52
                            Lutheran Observer, November 10, 1848.
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., April 13, 1849; Evangelical Lutheran Olive Branch Synod, Minutes, 1848, pp. 4–5, 15–27, 1849, p. 1.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., April 2, 1847, April 13, 1849.
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., December 7, 1849; Evangelical Lutheran Olive Branch Synod, Minutes, 1849, pp. 3, 22.
                  
                     56 Evangelical Lutheran Olive Branch Synod, Minutes,
                            1849, p. 3, 1850, p. 3, 1852, p. 13; Lutheran Observer, September 7, 1849;
                            Clerical Roll, The Lutheran Almanac (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1851); Defenderfer, Lutheranism at the Crossroads,
                        48.
               
                     German (St. James) Lutheran Church and other congregations, this
                    parish was not included in the list of religious organizations that appeared in the 1858 
                        Lafayette
                     city directory.57
            
            As 
                        Lafayette
                    's first Lutheran parish waned, the missionary initiative in the city shifted
                    to the formative group that Lücken had promoted. In the spring of 1849 these people asked
                    Lücken to become their regular pastor but yielded to his suggestion that they call,
                    instead, his younger brother-in-law, Edo Leemhuis. A music and academic teacher who had come from
                    East Friesland to 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1842, Leemhuis, too, had been licensed to preach by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Synod. He took charge of the 
                        Lafayette
                     mission sometime after midyear and probably collected signatures for a roll of charter
                    members within a matter of weeks. In 1850, while renting quarters at a church on the corner of Fifth
                    and 
                        Columbia
                     streets, his congregation constructed a frame, 20-by 42-foot church on Ferry Street.
                    That same year they opened a school, and, on September 29, forty members signed a constitution which
                    named their parish St. James Evangelical Lutheran Church.58
            
            St. James was destined to achieve a strong and lasting relationship with the Synod of
                            
                  Missouri, Ohio
               , and Other States (now the Lutheran Church-
                        Missouri
                     Synod). Before joining that body in 1856, though, the congregation had some trying and
                    unsettled times. Its contacts with neighboring Lutheran churches were strained by differences of
                    opinion over confessional standards, ministerial practices, and linguistic policies. Simultaneously,
                    the inclusion of persons with Evangelical or Reformed backgrounds on the church's roll
                    caused much "strife and dissention," repeated "clashes between the
                    ‘sincere’ and the ‘indifferent,’" and a
                    considerable turnover in membership.59
            
            A third, highly unorthodox variety of "Lutheranism" was being disseminated in these
                    years in eastern 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and surrounding counties. The leader of this ministry was Elias Markert's
                    successor, Samuel Good—the "chief lieutenant" of 
                  
                     57
                            
                                Lafayette
                             city directory, pp. 118–27. The parochial reports in the
                            1853–1859 minutes of the Olive Branch Synod credit 
                                Brown
                             with a three-church parish. The 1860 listing reduces the figure to two
                            churches, probably reflecting the deletion of the 
                                Lafayette
                             congregation. Evangelical Lutheran Olive Branch Synod, Minutes, 1860, p. 15.
                  
                     58 Anon. [H. H. Decker], "One Hundred and Twenty-Fifth
                            Anniversary of Saint James Evangelical Lutheran Church," (anniversary booklet, 
                                Lafayette
                            , 1975), 2; John P. Leemhuis, "A Short History of the
                            Leemhuis' Family," 1970 (Archives, St. James Evangelical Lutheran Church).
                            Leemhuis was ordained on October 1, 1849. In 1851, at age thirty-five, he resigned his call
                            but did not leave 
                                Lafayette
                             to assume a teaching position in 
                                Pittsburgh
                             until 1853.
                  
                     59 "One Hundred and Twenty-Fifth Anniversary of Saint
                            James," 2–3. The congregation officially adopted a 
                                Missouri
                             Synod constitution in 1861.
               
                     Indiana Synod President Rudisill. If his opponents can be
                    believed, Good once got so far off the beaten path in his misguided attempts to justify
                    Rudisill's alien doctrine on Destructionism that he rejected his denomination's
                    teachings on the resurrection, original sin, and the Holy Ghost; deprecated portions of the Bible;
                    and ordered church councils to burn Luther's catechism.60
            
            In March of 1848, several months before he took up residence near 
                        Dayton
                    , Indiana, Good reorganized the pro-Rudisill "outs" at
                    Slipher's Church into what was later named Fair Haven Lutheran Church.61 During the time when he was overseeing this and other stations in 
                  Clinton and Boone
               
                    counties, Good may also have done some preaching for the 
                        St. Paul
                    's and 
                        Oxford
                     congregations in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County. In addition, he tried, with little success, to bring the dissident Zion of
                    Colburn church back into the Rudisill camp. His controversial efforts kept his charge in turmoil,
                    but, to the everlasting satisfaction of his critics, he ultimately changed his ways. Just before his
                    death in 1851 Good apologized for the heresies he had furthered and reembraced the faith of his
                        forebears.62
            
            Leading the resistance to the Good-Rudisill influences in the 
                        Lafayette
                     region was still another young pastor who withstood ecclesiastical pressures with a
                    firmness reminiscent of Martin Luther at the Diet of Worms. This resolute individual was John F.
                    Lautenschlager, central figure in an 1848–1851 split in the Indiana Synod. Born in 
                        Germany
                     in 1822, Lautenschlager came to the 
                        United States
                     with his widowed father at the age of nine, grew up on a 
                        Pennsylvania
                     farm, and migrated to southern Indiana prior to 1841.63 In the
                    Hoosier state he was recognized as a talented prospect for the Gospel ministry and did extensive
                    reading in Lutheran theology from 1844 to 1846 as one of the Indiana Synod's clerical
                    candidates. Most of Lautenschlager's basic instruction was directed by Eusebius S. Henkel,
                    who had been a "powerful" opponent of innovations in doctrine. Although in 1846
                    Henkel was on the verge of a brief infatuation with Universalism, his student—licensed to
                    preach in that year—was a strong advocate of Luther's original teachings.64
            
            
               
                  60 Evangelical Lutheran Synod of Indiana, Report, 1848,
                        p. 14; Wagner, 
                     
                                Chicago
                             Synod, 132–34.
               
                  61 Slipher's Church Book, pp. 1–4 (Archives, Indiana-
                            Kentucky
                         Synod); Doty, History of Fair Haven Church, 1–2.
               
                  62 Evangelical Lutheran Synod of Indiana, Reports,
                        1848–1851, passim; Wagner, 
                     
                                Chicago
                             Synod, 138–48.
               
                  63 Charles Blanchard, ed., Counties of 
                                Clay
                             and Owen (
                            Chicago
                        , 1884), 911.
               
                  64 Wagner, 
                     
                                Chicago
                             Synod, 99–100, 120, 131–34.
            
            
            It was after Rudisill put Lautenschlager under the tutelage of Good that the fireworks began. The
                    licentiate promptly complained that he could not conscientiously assist a man who propagated such
                    false notions as Destructionism. Shocked to discover that Rudisill held the same views,
                    Lautenschlager began speaking out against these errors. His campaign won the support of several
                    congregations and of fellow preachers such as Abraham Miller, David Miller, Henry Fairchild, and
                    Elias Goodwin. But the indomitable Rudisill manipulated his synod's 1847 convention so as
                    to obtain "emergency" powers that enabled him to postpone action on petitions for
                    Lautenschlager's ordination. Subsequently, Pastors Abraham and David Miller invoked a
                    constitutional provision on interconvention proceedings by examining and ordaining their friend.
                    This infuriated Rudisill, who called a special synodical session in early 1848 to squelch this
                    insubordination. Acting as "prosecutor, judge and jury," he excommunicated
                    Lautenschlager, suspended Abraham Miller, and forced a half-hearted apology from David Miller. Later
                    the three dissidents headed the so-called Miller faction, an organization which at least three
                    synods and a 
                        Johnson County
                     judge declared to be the "true" Indiana Synod. By 1851, however, the
                    Miller group had folded because of expensive litigation, clerical transfers to other fields or
                    synods, and a shift to more temperate, theologically sound administration in the Indiana Synod.65
            
            What these tumultuous events did to the spiritual life of Lautenschlager's parishioners in
                    and near 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County is largely a matter of conjecture. The only congregational records available for
                    his charge are those of Slipher's Church. Along with local historical sources, these
                    materials paint an incomplete picture of an agitated and deeply divided laity. The holdover members
                    of Slipher's Church, early advocates of Lautenschlager's ordination, did not, for
                    example, consent to a joint pastorate with Fair Haven until 1871—four years after their
                    reorganization as Zion Lutheran and Reformed Church in Mulberry.66 Ostensibly,
                    Zion of Colburn, another church which sided with Lautenschlager in 1847 and retained his services
                    for several years, avoided this kind of rift. Yet there may have been a good deal of soul searching
                    in that parish, in the St. 
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., 134–48; Evangelical Lutheran Synod of Indiana, Report, 1849, pp. 7–10.
                  
                     66 Slipher's Church Book, passim; "The Mulberry
                            Lutheran Parish," History of United Lutheran Churches of the Indiana Synod
                            collection, microfilm (Archives, Indiana-
                                Kentucky
                             Synod); Doty, History of Fair Haven Church, 2.
               
                     Jacob's Church that Lautenschlager restructured near
                    Rossville, and in other congregations that he directed from 1848 to 1851, when both he and Good
                    lived near 
                        Dayton
                    .67
            
            Thus, in spite of discord and adverse conditions, various strains of Lutheranism were taking root in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County by the close of 1850. The generation of pioneers who had helped to bring about
                    this growth must have felt that the struggle to break new ground for their "American
                    Zion" was practically over. No longer isolated from the religious ministrations of their
                    chosen denomination, they could now worship, commune, and otherwise enjoy the spiritual benefits of
                    membership in established, locally administered congregations. To be sure, they were still a small
                    and coolly regarded minority in the midst of a rapidly growing society that was preoccupied with
                    alternative interests and values. But the stage was set for the nurture of stronger, more
                    influential expressions of the Christian traditions they espoused.
            Nothing more clearly demonstrated the success of Lutheran missionary efforts in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County than the parishes that had appeared by midcentury; yet, the state of these
                    congregations indicated that they could not approach the future passively. Their small memberships
                    and limited resources, their minimal facilities, the theological and synodical tensions that
                    attended their emergence, and the continuing need for effective leadership were among the challenges
                    that lay ahead. The largest of the churches in 1850—Hickory Grove, Zion, St. James, and
                    "First"—probably had no more than thirty to fifty communicants, whereas
                            
                  Oxford, St.
                        Paul
               's, and the Wyandotte mission may have served just a few
                        families.68 Only Hickory Grove, Zion, and St. James had their own houses of
                    worship, and these new, modestly built facilities had few refinements.69
                    
                  
                     67 Evangelical Lutheran Synod of Indiana, Reports,
                            1848, p. 14; ibid., 1849–1851, passim;
                            "Checklist of Disbanded Churches" and Disbanded Church Files (Archives, Indiana-
                                Kentucky
                             Synod); Defenderfer, Lutheranism at the Crossroads,
                            36–37. Lautenschlager moved to 
                                Owen County
                             in the early 1850s and continued a "distinguished" ministry
                            as an ordained member of the Joint Synod of 
                                Ohio
                             in that region. Blanchard, Counties of 
                                    Clay
                                 and Owen, 750, 911.
                  
                     68 The smallness of the two city congregations is quite evident given
                            the fact that 
                                Lafayette
                            , with a population of 6,129, was Indiana's fourth largest city in
                            1850. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, p. 776. More than a dozen families were
                            initially connected with 
                                St. Paul
                            's, but some of these parishioners later joined Zion or St. James.
                            Similarly, the little 
                                Oxford
                             congregation lost members to other area churches, notably to Bethel Lutheran
                            Church of Pettit, which was founded in Perry Township in 1862. Waltmann, History of the Indiana-
                                    Kentucky
                                 Synod, 95.
                  
                     69 The 1850 census, which offers a very incomplete and misleading
                            tabulation of Lutheran churches in Indiana, credits 
                                Tippecanoe
                             County with only one such building. U.S., Seventh Census,
                            1850, pp. 799–807, 1021–22. Apparently St. James was the only
                            parish with a separate religious school.
               
                     Numerical and physical advancements depended upon the
                    achievement of congregational consensuses on fundamental beliefs, on religious practices and
                    programs, and on relationships with synod authorities. Too, as the decline of "First
                    Church" illustrated, these parishes had to retain qualified and capable pastors if they
                    were to survive and broaden their ministries.70
            
            On October 27, just two weeks before it ran a brief obituary notice on Darius Hoyt, founder of the
                    "First Church," the Lutheran Observer featured a letter which he
                    had written to the directors of the Home Missionary Society. Lengthy and articulate, although not
                    entirely dispassionate, this communication is introduced by the title "LUTHERANISM IN THE
                    WEST." Not only is it a powerful description of the author's goals, attitudes, and
                    concerns, but it also provides a relevant summary of the development of Lutheran missions in 
                        Tippecanoe
                     County, Indiana, and the Midwest as a whole during the pioneer period.
            LUTHERANISM IN THE WEST.71
            
            Much has been said about the West and its wants. They have been set forth by the ablest pens and the
                    most eloquent tongues. Its peculiarities have all been exhibited. Its dense forests and spreading
                    prairies—its creeks and navigable rivers—its exuberant
                    fertility—its mines of lead, copper and coal—its rapid increase of
                    population—its rising greatness and political importance; and withal, its spiritual
                    destitution, have long been urged upon the attention of the statesmen, the speculator, and the
                    Christian philanthropist. The interest thus 
                  
                     70 Low pay was a persistent deterrent to ministerial retention. Even
                            when they had large families, early Lutheran pastors seldom received more than
                            $200 a year from their parishioners. See, for example, Lutheran
                                Observer, April 13, 1849; and Walter Huchthausen, "The History of
                            Lutheranism in Southern Indiana," Concordia Historical Institute
                                Quarterly, XV (July, 1942), 46–58. At first the 
                                St. Paul
                            's congregation paid only $2.42 per sermon. 
                                St. Paul
                            's Lutheran Church Folder, Church Files (
                                Tippecanoe
                             County Historical Society).
                  
                     71
                            Lutheran Observer, October 27, 1848. In the following transcription the
                            editor used a photocopy of a microfilm edition of the Lutheran Observer in
                            which Hoyt's original report appeared. Spelling, capitalization, and punctuation
                            have been reproduced as they were found in the newspaper version of the report; no attempt
                            has been made to determine whether the errors were due to Hoyt, the editor of the Observer, or the typesetter.
               
                     awakened is by no means on the decline. Every year, and indeed
                    every month, is adding to its intensity. None can be indifferent to its temporal prosperity, but as
                    Christians we are mostly concerned in making its vast resources and teeming
                    population subservient to the Gospel of Christ. It is ours to second and carry out the spirited
                    resolution of Prof. Stowe, offered two or three years since in the N.Y. Tabernacle at the
                    anniversary of the American Home Missionary Society. It was worded thus:
            
               Resolved, That the Great West belongs to Jesus Christ, and HE SHALL HAVE IT!
            The churches from whose contributions and influence this noble society derives its life and
                    efficiency are exerting their mightiest energies to carry into execution this high resolve. They
                    have been and are still sending literal armies of men into this field—not to wield the
                    sword and the spear and the instruments of death, but to extend the mild dominion of the Prince of
                    Peace. And it gives me pleasure in this connection to bear testimony to the high character of the
                    missionaries under the patronage of this Society. They are not among the number our brethren so
                    frequently complain of, who compass sea and land to make one proselyte. That species of
                    ecclesiastical piracy by which our scattered and destitute members are pressed into communions
                    uncongenial with their primitive faith, is carried forward under other auspices. These brethren, to the extent of my observation and knowledge are men of disciplined mind, and
                    qualified for their mission by nature and by grace. They have uniformly treated our feeble
                    congregations with Christian courtesy and respect, and cordially welcome the missionaries of our
                    General Synod as fellow laborers among the destitute. And although they have in some localities
                    received into their fold many of the lost sheep of the house of Luther, it is but to give them
                    protection from the wolves in sheep's clothing that go about seeking to devour them. To
                    complain of this, so long as we fail to supply our people with pastors of their own, is to manifest
                    a kind of bias which I cannot easily reconcile with Christian gratitude and charity.
            The Home Missionary Society of our General Synod is doing something, and will do more to give the
                    Gospel to the West. It is approximating the spirit of the resolution above quoted. Its Executive
                    Committee, and not a few of its members, seem to have laid hold of the idea with all its intensity
                    and grandeur. Let our people at large respond, and that response will be followed by a degree of
                    church extension and influence,  the like of which our American
                    Zion has never seen or even dared to hope for.
            It cannot, however, be concealed, that while the Lutheran church has every thing to contend with,
                    common to the Home Missionary enterprize in general, it has some difficulties that are peculiar. It
                    may be painful and humiliating to contemplate them, but it is well that at least in part they should
                    be laid before the churches.—During my recent tour in the East, I not unfrequently met
                    with brethren having considerable zeal for the H.M. enterprize, but not according to knowledge. They
                    expect too much. A species of religious romance seems to have come over them.—They think
                    every thing in the West is done by magic. They have heard of cities springing up by enchantment and
                    expect churches will be built up in the same way. When we tell them of our scattered and feeble
                    congregations, neglected by the world, spoken against by other sects, and struggling for existence,
                    their ardor cools, and they seem half inclined to suspect their contributions have been wasted, and
                    perhaps impute inefficiency or indolence to their hard-working missionaries. It would be well for
                    such to remember that human nature is always and everywhere the same. The tokens of depravity are
                    sufficiently visible in the East. In the West, the will is not a whit less perverse, nor is the
                    heart less obdurate. However high the hopes and ardent the zeal of the youthful missionary, when he
                    first enters the field, he will soon find that "old Adam is stronger than young
                    Melancthon." This difficulty all meet in common—but the Lutheran missionary has
                    more to contend with.
            
               His church is unknown. Not one in ten has heard its name. Not one in a hundred
                    knows anything of its doctrines and usages. This ignorance, in some cases at least, is culpable.
                    Sundry persons now connected with the church in the West, but whose parents, I have incidentally
                    learned, were 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Lutherans, do "remember that there were some such people about where they came
                    from, but really they never did know what they held to!" There are some
                    others, however, who positively affirm that "the Lutherans are a set of Dutch that have no
                    religion but to christen their children and take the sacrament." And in case any one should
                    approbate the labors of the missionary, and, as is now and then the case, propose falling in with
                    his enterprize, it is a hundred chances to one if he does not receive a caveat
                    after this wise: "True, this appears to be a fine young man, and he preaches very good
                    doctrine, but there is no telling who will come after him, or with what sort of people you will have
                    to fellowship, for there is a settlement of  Lutherans out
                    in_____ county, who differ very widely from this man!" These misrepresentations, so
                    blighting in their influence, are in part sustained by the unchristian life of many, mostly
                    Europeans, scattered over every part of the West, assuming the name of the great Reformer, but like
                    to those spoken of in the Apocalypse, who say they are apostles and are not, but do lie, their works
                    bearing witness against them.
            
               The pre-occupancy of the ground by other denominations is likewise against us.
                    Most, perhaps nearly all, not already connected with some church, have relatives who are, and it is
                    an impulse of nature to go with one's kindred. Thus other sects have not merely the
                    numerical advantage, but each individual member is connected by blood or friendship with others,
                    who, if they join church at all, will be likely to go with him. There are in this place and
                    vicinity, several valuable members of other churches who gratefully acknowledge the unworthy labors
                    of the writer as the instrument of their conversion, who have been led "out of regard to
                    the feelings" of a wife, a sister, or a father, to connect themselves elsewhere.
            
               The isolated condition of our ministers is another serious difficulty. It precludes
                    the possibility of exchange. Where there is a score of ministers of the same communion in a single
                    county it is a matter of ministerial courtesy and convenience frequently to supply each
                    other's pulpit. In the West this cannot be done. So few and far between are our ministers,
                    we but seldom see each other's faces. To attend Synod, we must needs ride from one to two
                    hundred miles, and a journey of sixty or seventy miles, over roads which, half the year, are well
                    nigh impassable, is the sine qua non of a Conference meeting. The community is thus unable to learn
                    the character of our church and ministry by induction. They can only base their estimate on the
                    knowledge they may have of the individual missionary, and the limited circulation he is able to give
                    to our church publications, and many are slow to adopt the adage ab uno disce omnes [from one learn
                    all].
            
               The want of churches is another incubus bearing heavily upon the hearts of nearly
                    all our Missionary brethren. Other denominations have them. Many, especially in our larger towns and
                    villages, are spacious and elegant. Their lofty steeples attract the eye of the stranger and their
                    far sounding bells call the people to worship. Could you, reader, be in this or in some other large
                    Western town on Sabbath morning you would see scores and hundreds darkening the doors of the big
                    churches, while in some out-of-the-way hall or school house, which nobody would mistrust was a place
                    of worship, you might see a  little group slowly collecting and
                    infer from their bearing and deportment it was for religious service. These are Lutherans and the
                    few friends who sympathize with them. No one has straggled in by mistake. None have been borne along
                    by the rush of the multitude. All who are there have come on purpose. They have remembered the time
                    and the place, and passed by churches where they might have worshipped God on cushioned seats, to
                    get there.—Sometimes, the pastor, by extraordinary efforts to improve the heads and the
                    hearts of his hearers, may induce a larger number to turn aside into his "hired
                    House." But it matters little with how much favor individuals in a promiscuous audience may
                    regard the speaker, or how many good wishes they may lavish upon his congregation, while they know
                    that one of its first calls will be for money to build a church, they will not make application for
                    membership "until they sit down first and count the cost." But few have faith and
                    love equal to the estimate. Thus, month after month is progress retarded and "hope
                    deferred."
            When depressed and discouraged by these circumstances, I must confess, it is not peculiarly grateful
                    to my feelings to look upon the new Catholic church recently erected in this
                    place. It is perhaps the largest and best finished in town.72 A noble structure!
                    But who built it? Where were the funds collected? Our resident Catholics are nearly all poor, living
                    in wretched shanties, some of them literally burrowing in the hill-sides along our canal. And yet
                    they worship in a better church than our most wealthy Protestant congregations. The way this is done
                    is no longer a mystery. The money comes from far—much of it from Europe—some
                    from wealthy Catholics in our country. But how is this? Is "the mother of
                    Protestantism" less mindful of her destitute children than "the mother of
                    harlots?" Shall the minions of 
                        Rome
                     chant their mummeries in temples lined with cedar and plated with silver, while the
                    followers of Luther—every word of whose tongue was a thunderbolt against papal
                    usurpation—are compelled to pay rent for an incommodious shelter, or worship amid the
                    pitiless peltings of the storm and the scoffs and jeers of the ungodly? What greater triumph could
                    be craved by the Man of Sin and his grand ally the devil?
            But we must not say any thing about aid to build churches in the West! No—it is asking too
                    much! The Lutheran church, numbering near two hundred thousand, and as wealthy in proportion 
                  
                     72 Hoyt is here referring to the attractive, ten-thousand-dollar,
                            40-by 80- foot brick St. Mary and St. Martha's Church at the corner of
                                    
                        Brown and Mississippi
                      streets. Cox, Old
                            Settlers, 109.
               
                     to its numbers as any church in our land, has, during the last
                    year, aided seventeen missionaries! It has given to some twenty-five and to some
                    fifty dollars, for a year of toil—for which they are all grateful. Some may have received
                    a hundred. But we must ask nothing for church building. It is preposterous! Such incessant begging
                    cannot be tolerated. Besides, it is bad policy to be building fine churches way off in the West.
                    What need of them? The people there are proud and would make a vain show! If we send them
                    missionaries they ought to be content with such churches as they can build for themselves!
            Purse-proud persons, who talk in this way, are among the first and the loudest to complain of the
                    slow progress of our missionaries. They may dislike to be called hard-hearted, but they irresistibly
                    remind us of Pharaoh who required the "full tale of bricks without straw." If I
                    have spoken too sharply on this point I am sorry. I am certain, however, that all who know that what
                    it is to labor to build up an infant society having scarcely "a name" and without
                    "a local habitation" will feel the force of these remarks and put on them a
                    favorable construction.
            I am aware that it is not the custom of the Am. H. M. Society, as such, to undertake the work of
                    church building in the West; but may not the exigencies of the Lutheran church demand a different
                    policy? What course shall be pursued is for others more experienced to
                    determine.—Something should be done, and done quickly. The expediency of aiding missionaries in the West is no longer doubted—that of aiding feeble
                    congregations in large towns to build churches, is, if possible more evident. Other things being
                    equal, one of our brethren will accomplish more in one year with a respectable, well finished church
                    to preach in than he can in five years, when compelled to gather his little flock into a rented
                    hall. This remark will bear investigation.
            Permit me to say, in conclusion, that these difficulties have not been spread out as a ground of
                    discouragement, but as a stimulus to action. I have myself experienced them all, and more also, but
                    am not yet tired of my field, nor do I wish to leave it. Although the removal to other parts of some
                    of my most valuable members, and the recent formation of a German church in this place has
                    materially reduced our numbers, and compelled me to ask a renewed appropriation from the Committee,
                    still I have much reason to hope that "a better day is coming." Our congregations
                    in the country are flourishing, and an effort will soon be made to build a church in town.
                    … Let our people arouse to execute the high resolve that "Jesus shall have the
                    West". …
         
         
         
            The American People and the Centennial of 1876
            
                    Walter Nugent
                    ∗
                
            As your program states, my topic is "The American People and the Centennial." When
                    I was asked to come here, it was to say something about "how the country observed the 1876
                    Centennial." I have broadened that just a bit since I can't resist grinding some
                    of my favorite axes about that fascinating and in some ways dreadful decade, the 1870s. So let me
                    begin by describing some of the many Centennial celebrations, then go on to some of the attitudes
                    which people of that day had about the Centennial and what they thought it represented, and finally
                    try to describe for you a bit of the context which surrounded the Centennial observance, both in
                    1876 itself and in the 1870s in general.
            Despite the vast differences in American life as it is in 1976 and as it was in 1876, which led among
                    other things to differences between the Centennial and Bicentennial celebrations, there were
                    nevertheless certain similarities. One of them was that in both cases a considerable amount of
                    advance planning went on. We will probably never know for certain just how the idea of a Centennial
                    celebration originated, and in the third and fourth quarters of the nineteenth century, there
                    weren't the cadre of professional organizers of historic anniversaries such as have been
                    with us since the Civil War centennial of the early 1960s, many of whom simply re-addressed their
                    talents to the Bicentennial after the Civil War centennial wound down and who will probably round
                    out their careers by organizing 
                  
                     ∗ Walter Nugent is professor of history, Indiana
                            University, 
                                Bloomington
                            . In a slightly different version the following address was delivered at a
                            luncheon meeting of the Indiana University Conference on Historic Preservation at 
                                Vincennes
                             University, September 25, 1976. A few minor changes have been made to the text
                            of the original speech to adapt it to the printed medium; otherwise, the address is printed
                            here essentially as it was given by Professor Nugent. Nugent has recently published From Centennial to World War: American Society, 1876–1917 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1977).
               
                     celebrations to mark the two hundredth anniversaries of the
                    Treaty of 
                        Paris
                    , the Constitution, and on down through the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase and beyond. I have heard nothing yet about a celebration to mark the hundredth
                    anniversary of the Bland-Allison Act (February 28, 1878), but it would not surprise me. One of
                    Parkinson's laws states that work expands to engage existing personnel, and the historic
                    anniversary business is obviously no exception. In the 1860s and 1870s, however, Americans were as
                    yet innocent of the natural laws of bureaucracy. No professional organizers of anniversaries were
                    around because the country was not yet old enough to have any hundredth anniversaries of much
                    significance. If anybody had even wanted to celebrate the centennial of the Stamp Act in 1865, 
                        Appomattox
                     stole its meager thunder. In the 1860s and 1870s the notion seemed to develop from a
                    number of sources that the Centennial of the Declaration of Independence ought to be made something
                    special. Some people were thinking about it as far ahead as 1866. Professor William Peirce Randel,
                    in his 1969 book on the Centennial, traces the idea of a Centennial observance, in the specific form
                    of a great national exposition, to two men, John L. 
                        Campbell
                     and General Charles B. Norton.1
                    
                        Campbell
                     was a professor of mathematics, natural history, and astronomy at 
                        Wabash
                     College [
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Indiana], and in 1866 he suggested the idea to one of the Indiana senators and to the
                    mayor of 
                        Philadelphia
                    . General Norton published an article in a British journal in 1866 also suggesting an
                    exposition, and his thoughts were reaffirmed the following year when he served as 
                        United States
                     commissioner to the 
                        Paris
                     exposition, or world's fair, of 1867. At that time, of course, the great
                    successes of the Crystal Palace exposition in 
                        London
                     in 1851 and subsequent world's fairs, including the one in 
                        Paris
                     in 1867, were fresh in many people's minds. Those expositions were intended,
                    principally, to display the great material progress of the industrial age, and they did succeed in
                    reinforcing the idea of progress in the minds of nineteenth century Europeans and Americans, who
                    were, in retrospect, perhaps inordinately fond of the idea. But those expositions did not, as a
                    rule, mark or coincide with any historic anniversary of great significance. It thus seemed
                    especially appropriate that the 
                        United States
                    , which had not yet put on a show of that kind but which felt that it too had plenty of
                    progress to brag about, combine 
                  
                     1 William Peirce Randel, Centennial: American Life in
                                1876 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1969), 283.
               
                     the display-of-progress idea with a celebration of the greatest
                    historic anniversary the country had yet known, the centennial of national independence. Thus the
                    contents of the 
                        Philadelphia
                     exposition and of the speeches and hymns that went with it stressed, virtually without
                    fail, the idea of "look what we Americans have done, spiritually and materially, in the
                    century of our independent existence."
            The national government had been in the habit of sending commissioners and exhibits to other
                    countries' exhibitions at their official request, and it seemed natural for those
                    interested in promoting a centennial exhibition to approach Congress for help. Congress first
                    considered the matter raised by 
                        Campbell
                     and Norton in 1870, and in 1871 it passed a bill approving the Exhibition officially.
                    But there was a joker in the deck. The 1871 law said that the Exhibition "should be held
                    under the auspices of the 
                        United States
                    ; at the same time leaving it to the people to raise the necessary money therefor by
                    voluntary contributions"2: a public anniversary, but to be run by
                    private enterprise. In early 1872 Congress further blessed the effort by creating a Centennial
                    Commission, chaired by ex-Governor Joseph R. Hawley of 
                        Connecticut
                    , and a Centennial Board of Finance which was authorized to conduct a public sale of up
                    to ten million dollars in stock. But there was still no public appropriation.
            The commission and the board of finance had some early success in selling the stock, but, like
                    railroads and investment bankers everywhere, they were stopped cold by the panic of September, 1873,
                    and the ensuing depression. Somewhat short of their goal, they approached Congress again in May,
                    1874, and again were denied help. They struggled on, but in January and February, 1876, were
                    desperate and once more asked Congress for funds, this time for one and one half million dollars.3 The congressional debate was extensive for such an amount. Some members
                    questioned the constitutionality of such an appropriation to a private group. Others were simply
                    being stingy. Senator Eli Saulsbury, a 
                        Delaware
                     Democrat, made a telling point when he observed: "There are hundreds and
                    thousands of men to-day trembling on the very verge of bankruptcy, while there are hundreds of
                    thousands who have not the common necessaries of life; and yet the taxes wrung from the 
                  
                     2 U.S., Congress, Select Committee on the Centennial, House Report no. 1, 44 Cong., 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 1708), January 6, 1876.
                  
                     3
                            Ibid.; U.S., Congress, Senate Miscellaneous Document no.
                            5, 44 Cong., 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 1665), December 8, 1875.
               
                     people are to be taken by this bill and appropriated to a
                    celebration in 
                        Philadelphia
                    ."4 Some members doubtless had before them a resolution
                    from the 
                        New York
                     Woman Suffrage Society, pointing out that women pay one third of the taxes in the
                    country "and yet they are to-day suffering under the same slavery which oppressed our
                    ancestors a century ago. They are taxed without representation and governed without their consent.
                    In the face of this flagrant injustice, a Republic that calls itself free proposes by its Congress,
                    where not one woman's voice is heard, to impose upon a disfranchised and unrepresented sex
                    the enormous burden of half a million of dollars, to be given to the dominant sex to help them in
                    their rejoicings over a liberty from which these taxpayers are excluded. … We indignantly
                    protest against this outrage."5 And one member of Congress, the
                    Democratic Senator Samuel McCreery of 
                        Kentucky
                    , urged Congress not to authorize money but instead to resolve that the American people
                    should observe July 4 by making it a national day of prayer. This was too much for Senator Theodore 
                        Randolph
                     of 
                        New Jersey
                    , another Democrat. Quoth 
                        Randolph
                    : 
                        I am as firm a believer, sir, in the efficacy of prayer as any man in all this land.
                            … I regret I was compelled under the circumstances to vote against so pure, so
                            peaceful, and so pious a proposition. But sir, I have always been taught to believe that,
                            effective as prayer is, there is another Christian duty and that lies in good works.
                            … The Centennial Commission have come asking an appropriation for what they
                            deemed to be a commendable object, and my friend from 
                                Kentucky
                             offers them prayer. His knowledge of biblical history, no doubt, far outruns
                            mine, but I do not recollect to have read that ever so small an edifice was built by prayer
                            alone. The Senator from 
                                Kentucky
                             proposed in place of the centennial exhibition to have a day of universal
                            prayer. In its stead he would have praise, without a jubilant note; thanksgiving, without
                            the feast; gratitude, without a cent of cost. Is that the way, sir, the American people are
                            to show their appreciation of what "God hath wrought"?6
                  
                    
                
            
               
                        Randolph
                     carried the day, and the appropriation passed the Senate by a healthy margin, 41 to 15.
                    The vote was not sectional; though the nasty-minded historian might have suspected that support
                    would increase the closer a congressman's district lay to 
                        Philadelphia
                     or that members from the former Confederate states would oppose it, the bill received
                    votes from members who came from diverse parts of the country. President Ulysses S. Grant signed the
                    appropriation bill, and the commissioners, thus fortified, plunged forward.7
            
            
               
                  4
                        Congressional Record, 44 Cong., 1 Sess., IV (February 11, 1876), 1037.
               
                  5 U.S., Congress, House Miscellaneous Document no. 45,
                        44 Cong., 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 1698), January 13, 1876.
               
                  6
                        Congressional Record, 44 Cong., 1 Sess., IV (February 11, 1876),
                        1024–25.
               
                  7
                        Ibid., 1035, 1037, 1148.
            
            
            The 
                        Philadelphia
                     Centennial Exhibition opened on schedule on May 10, 1876. It was by no means the only
                    centennial celebration, as we shall see, but it was definitely the focal point of the
                    nation's efforts. The commissioners had caused five principal buildings, and some smaller
                    ones, to be erected in 
                        Fairmount
                     Park, two and one half miles northwest of downtown 
                        Philadelphia
                    .8 To reach it, one could choose from among five passenger railways,
                    horse-drawn busses, or steamboats up the Schuylkill River. The main building had a floor area of
                    twenty acres, and the others—Machinery Hall, the Ladies' Pavilion, Agriculture
                    and Horticulture halls—were not much smaller. Many foreign governments had sent exhibits,
                    including costumes, industrial products, and minerals: 
                        Germany
                     sent some large artillery pieces made by Krupp, 
                        France
                     sent seventeen thousand dollars worth of Haviland vases from Limoges, Mexico sent a
                    two-ton iron meteorite, and the bey of Tunis sent a threshing machine of a type supposedly in use
                    since the time of the Carthaginians. The 
                        United States
                     government, though reluctant to appropriate money directly to the Centennial
                    commissioners, ended up spending $639,000 on exhibits and in other ways. The Smithsonian
                    Institution provided an elaborate exhibit, including an ethnological display: "The plan
                    embraced the presentation of twenty or more tribes, from the Esquimaux of Northwestern Alaska to the
                    Seminole, and from the Passamaquoddy Indians of 
                        Maine
                     to those of San Diego … a large force of taxidermists is at present engaged
                    … in doing the necessary work." The Smithsonian officals were especially proud
                    of this display because they felt that it was "quite reasonable to infer that by the
                    expiration of a second hundred-year period of the life of the American Republic, the Indians will
                    entirely ceased [sic] to present any distinctive character, and will be merged in
                    the general population."9 Machinery Hall contained the huge Corliss
                    engine. Exhibits were scattered throughout the several buildings, so many that one Hoosier newspaper
                    reported that it would take a person four weeks to get to know the whole thing. To the befuddlement
                    of European visitors, the Exhibition was closed on Sundays, the 
                  
                     8 The following description of the Centennial Exposition is drawn from
                            U.S., Congress, House Report no. 144, 44 Cong., 2 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set
                            1708), February 1, 1877; U.S., Senate Executive Document no. 74, 45 Cong.,
                            3 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 1831), March 3, 1879; Randel, Centennial,
                            288–302; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 5, 1876.
                  
                     9 U.S., Congress, "Annual Report of the Board of Regents of
                            the Smithsonian Institution … for the Year 1875," Senate
                                Miscellaneous Document no. 115, 44 Cong., 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 1665), April 7,
                            1876.
               
                     result of Sabbatarian pressure; but, as the result of other
                    pressures, alcoholic beverages were sold on the grounds while religious tracts were forbidden. Soft
                    drinks, including Hires' root beer, cost three cents. Anyone unable to afford that could
                    get a free drink of water at the fountain provided by the Catholic Total Abstinence Union, a huge
                    affair topped by a sixteen- foot-high statue of Moses. Inside the grounds were three restaurants,
                    one of which charged, not without comment, twenty- five cents for a cup of coffee, while another, a
                    French place, was called "impudently extortionate" by William Dean Howells when he
                    visited there.10
            
            Despite the prices, and the muddiness of the not-quite-finished grounds, seventy-six thousand people
                    showed up on May 10 for opening-day ceremonies. The Liberty Bell rang for half an hour. Theodore
                    Thomas led an orchestra of 150 and a chorus of 800. Then came the opening festal march, commissioned
                    of and composed by one "Richard Wagner, of 
                        Germany
                    ," as a government document laconically put it.11 It is
                    said to have been the worst piece of music that Wagner ever wrote. I checked that judgment with a
                    colleague in the Indiana University School of Music who had a lot of responsibility for the
                    school's celebration of the Bicentennial, and he confirmed it; to have resurrected it for
                    1976 would have honored neither Wagner nor the Bicentennial. President Grant gave an opening speech
                    consisting of about six convoluted sentences, which could not have lasted more than three minutes
                    and which could not be heard, according to the newspapers, beyond the first few yards. Bishop
                    Simpson of the Methodist church followed Grant and more than made up for the president's
                    brevity with an opening prayer which one reporter charitably called "lengthy."12 Another, however, said that "Bishop Simpson's prayer was
                    appropriately the longest address of the occasion. It was very good, and had less than the usual
                    information to God that He has given all His favor to us and has left the rest of mankind to shift
                    for themselves."13 The grand chorus sang the first and last verses of
                    the "Centennial Hymn," with music by John K. Paine and words by John Greenleaf
                    Whittier. Then Dudley Buck conducted his "Centennial Cantata," with words by
                    Sidney Lanier. Grant accepted the Exhibition from Governor 
                  
                     10 Quoted in Randel, Centennial, 298.
                  
                     11 U.S., Congress, Senate Executive Document no. 54,
                            44 Cong., 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 1664), 1876.
                  
                     12 Quoted in Randel, Centennial, 291.
                  
                     13
                            
                                Goshen
                            
                            Democrat, May 31, 1876.
               
                     Hawley on behalf of the nation and descended from the stand to
                    tour the grounds with the year's most distinguished official visitor, the Emperor Dom Pedro
                    II of 
                        Brazil
                    .
            Attendance dropped to fifteen or twenty thousand a day for a while but of course picked up strongly
                    in early July as the Centennial Fourth, the "day of days," approached. The
                    celebration was certainly a boon for the railroads; tens of thousands of people converged on 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and an Indiana editor remarked: "The only great question, the solitary
                    article of discussion, is founded like a rock on the noble words, ‘Goin’ to
                    the Centennial, hey?‘"14 Many did, despite summer heat and
                    fear of a smallpox epidemic (though not legionnaires’ disease). Business activity ceased
                    for five days, from Saturday, July 1, through Wednesday, July 5. Saturday brought opening speeches.
                    Then quiet marked the Sabbath and most of Monday. On the evening of July 3 things began in earnest.
                    Five thousand GAR veterans led a torchlight parade which also included ten to fifteen thousand
                    "workingmen, political clubs, civic societies," and so forth. The parade reached
                    Independence Hall at midnight, when a bedlam of bells, whistles, guns, and fireworks erupted. The
                    "Star-Spangled Banner" was sung and the Doxology said, and the assembly dispersed
                    about 2:00 a.m. At seven the next morning, on the Fourth, another parade formed. As an estimated
                    half-million people watched, the parade passed through the streets, under triumphal arches last used
                    for 
                        Lafayette
                    's visit in 1824, until it reached a reviewing stand.15
                    There stood the newly nominated presidential candidates, Rutherford B. Hayes and Samuel J. Tilden;
                    Dom Pedro; a Swedish prince; a Japanese general; and several governors and mayors. Grant did not
                    show up, to the chagrin of many, but sent Vice-President Thomas Ferry to represent the 
                        United States
                     government. Richard Henry Lee of 
                        Virginia
                     read the Declaration of Independence from the original manuscript which his namesake
                    had signed. Bayard Taylor gave his "Centennial Ode," which one reporter complained
                    hid "its ideas in a labyrinth of language," a quality which he previously thought
                    Sidney Lanier had a monopoly on. Then came the main address by William M. Evarts, the lawyer and
                    former attorney general who the next year was to become Hayes' secretary of state. The
                    speech covered one and one half full-sized newspaper pages in five-point type. Many papers printed
                    it in full, perhaps because, as a jubilantly unkempt rhetorical garden, it was impossible to 
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., July 5, 1876.
                  
                     15
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, July 5, 1876.
               
                     summarize. The choir sang the "Hallelujah
                    Chorus," the crowd sang "Old Hundredth," and then all dispersed again to
                    await a huge fireworks display that evening at the Exhibition grounds.
            
               
                        Philadelphia
                    , with its Exhibition, was the focus of the Centennial celebration, but of course the
                    occasion did not go unobserved elsewhere. Parades, fireworks displays, and speeches—all
                    of monstrous size—occurred in 
                        Brooklyn
                    , in 
                        San Francisco
                    , and in Akron, which was blessed with the presence of "Lomer Griffin, the
                    oldest man in America, aged one hundred and seventeen," according to one newspaper.
                    American consuls and ministers abroad held diplomatic banquets and balls. Thirty thousand Irish
                    gathered in 
                        Dublin
                    , formally adopted an address to President Grant, watched fireworks, had a torchlight
                    parade, and heard Charles Stewart Parnell speak. When Parnell referred to the Eastern Question, the
                    crowd cheered for Russia and against 
                        England
                    . 
                        Chattanooga
                     had a sunrise parade a mile and a half long and held what was claimed to have been the
                    "grandest celebration ever, south of the 
                        Ohio
                     River."16
            
            In the Indiana heartland towns small and large observed a rare three-day holiday from Sunday the
                    second through Tuesday the fourth. The proceedings were fairly similar, their elaborateness largely
                    a function of the size of the place. But it might be useful to detail two or three of them to give
                    an idea of how Hoosiers, the great majority of whom—like most Americans—lived
                    on farms or in country villages, celebrated the Centennial Fourth. At New 
                        Albany
                     much of the activity came on the third. A parade formed in the evening, led by two men
                    dressed as Generals 
                  Washington and Lafayette
               . A police band followed them, then the
                    "Continental Guards," another band, a lodge called the "Phantoms of the
                    Nile" with a float carrying an eleven-foot wooden crocodile, then two lodges of the
                    International Order of Workingmen, the Junior Order United American Mechanics, the fire department,
                    and "other societies." The mayor and city council followed in carriages. At
                    midnight there was a one-hundred-gun salute. On the next morning another parade, a long one,
                    wriggled out to the fairgrounds. Several thousand people watched. Trains arrived every half hour
                    bringing more people. The New 
                        Albany
                    
                    Ledger-Standard reported that "the national song, America, was sung by a
                    chorus of one thousand voices" (the "Star-Spangled Banner" was not to
                    become the official national anthem for almost another sixty years). Someone read the Declaration,
                    and after a speech by a 
                  
                     16 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger-Standard, July 5, 1876.
               
                     Reverend Dr. Gierlow, the crowd broke up—most of it
                    apparently spending the rest of the day at picnics, which seemed to have gone on at every available
                    spot, involving dancing, sports, and more speeches. One picnic, at Five Mile Lane, included an
                    oration (according to the paper) by "Prof. J. T. Smith, of this city, [who] got on the
                    track of the American Eagle, overtook him, and tore from his narrative every pin feather, leaving
                    the emblem of the nation in a mutilated and shabby condition." Bonfires, booming guns, and
                    fireworks punctuated the whole day. The evening of the Fourth was very quiet; everyone seemed to be
                    resting up.17
            
            At the other end of the state, in 
                        Goshen
                    , rain poured down on the evening of the third but stopped at midnight. "Then
                    came the ringing of bells, the cannon's loud roar, the rattle of musketry, the cracking of
                    pistols and snapping of firecrackers, until the grey of the morning." People poured into
                    the public square at noon for prayer, music, a reading of the Declaration, and an oration, followed
                    by a tub race on the canal and a firemen's tournament. The fireman's band and the 
                        Goshen
                     Cornet Band provided music for a parade. There were sports and horse racing. More
                    firecrackers sounded that evening, until midnight, when (the local editor said) "another
                    centennial rainstorm put out the fire and closed the scene." He added that no accidents
                    happened all day, and "we saw but one man drunk, and he belonged to 
                        South Bend
                    ." All this occurred even though the City Council had turned down a request for
                    funds to pay for the celebration; a private committee raised the funds.18
            
            At 
                        Terre Haute
                     fire bells and church bells rang at 4:00 a.m. on the Fourth. Then a thirteen-gun salute
                    greeted the sunrise. At 5:00 a.m., brass bands assembled. At ten there was a parade
                    "consisting of military, the fire department, benevolent orders, representations of
                    industries, trades, with patriotic devices, etc."; at noon, firing of a salute, music,
                    reading of the Declaration, speeches, "followed by games and other amusements";
                    and there were fireworks that evening.19
            
            The citizenry of 
                        Dubois County
                     celebrated no less vigorously, but many of them did so in the German language and with
                    certain German touches. At Ferdinand the Fourth began with a festive church service (Gottesdienst),
                    including a Te Deum. At noon there was a reading of the Declaration—the
                    Freiheits-Erklärung; at one, a theater presentation at the 
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., July 3, 5, 1876.
                  
                     18
                            
                                Goshen
                            
                            Democrat, June 28, July 5, 1876.
                  
                     19
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Saturday Evening Mail, July 1, 8, 1876.
               
                     roomy tobacco house of Hermann Beckmann; at three a raffle,
                    other events, more theater at the Lokal; and in the evening a grand centennial ball. Neighboring
                    German villages had much of this sort of thing, plus brass bands and picnics, and the
                    German-language Huntingburgh Signal published a poem, in very typical and
                    well-ordered nineteenth century German heroic style, entitled "To the hundredth birthday of
                    our Republic." I won't burden you with all nine verses, but one is especially
                    interesting:
            
                    Free are we from other powers, No more 
                            England
                        's slaves or servants; Thus leave joyful banners waving, And now festive
                        celebrating, Of this great day.20
               
                
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     celebration was naturally the most elaborate in the Hoosier state. At sunrise on the
                    Fourth a one-hundred-gun salute opened the festivities. The weather looked grim and was described as
                    follows in one of the papers: 
                        Early in the morning dense and lowering clouds filled the face of the heavens, and up to 9
                            o'clock sent down heavy and spiteful showers of rain, which threatened to entirely
                            destroy the pleasures of the occasion. But at that hour a rift appeared in the clouds, and
                            the strong northwest winds having broken the ranks of Jupiter Pluvius, succeeded in entirely
                            routing them, and by noon the sun burst forth in an almost cloudless sky, and the day proved
                            to be as pleasant as any Fourth of July in the history of the oldest inhabitant.21
                  
                    
                
            A parade began at 10:30, while 150 children filed into Monument Circle and sang the
                    "Star-Spangled Banner" and "the national hymn America." The
                    parade led off with bands, followed by the police department, then tableaux-vivants—we
                    call them floats—the first about Indians, including "a forest and camp on wheels
                    in which the sturdy warrior stood guard over the pale face captive, while his companion cast his
                    eyes in the distance to anticipate the subtle foe. The ancient savage sat unconcerned beneath a tree
                    smoking his pipe, and the tender squaw sighed as her eyes dwelt upon the sad face of the
                        captive"22: thus John Smith and Pocahontas. Not surprisingly 
                  
                     20 Huntingburgh Signal, June 29, July 6, 1876. The
                            original reads: 
                                Frei sind wir trie and'ren Mächte,
                                Nicht mehr 
                                        England
                                    's Sklaven, Knechte,
                                D'rum laßt Freudenbanner wehen,
                                Und uns festlich nun begehen
                                Den großen Tag!
                            
                  
                  
                     21 Details about the 
                                Indianapolis
                             celebration are taken from the 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal and 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, both for July 5, 1876.
                  
                     22
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 5, 1876.
               
                     there were no tableaux representing Sitting Bull or Crazy Horse,
                    whose engagement with George A. Custer about ten days before had evoked headlines like "The
                    Red Devils."23 Next in the parade were fifty members of the Turnverein,
                    followed by a tableau about the Pilgrims' landing done by the Harmonic Singing Society.
                    "Upon a wagon drawn by six horses was placed a vessel to represent one of the boats of the
                    Pilgrims, and in this there was a group of the pious Puritans, male and female, in appropriate
                    costume, looking benignly upon each other, and by their appearance seeming to grasp the liberty of
                    the great country before them. A band of ill-costumed horsemen, possibly Kuklux, occasionally half
                    surrounded them, somewhat in the manner of the savages of 
                        Massachusetts
                     Bay."24 Then came a company of German cavalry,
                    impersonations of 
                        Lafayette
                     and Rochambeau, the Fraternelle Franpaise, three German singing societies (the
                    Liederkranz, Lyra, and Männerchor), the state guards, with artillery and marching band,
                    various lodges and trade unions (the butchers, brewers, and others), a wagon carrying Hayes-Wheeler
                    signs, a band from Anderson, carriages carrying Governor Thomas A. Hendricks and other state
                    officers, the fire department with seven polished engines and nine hose reels, and finally four or
                    five Irish societies with a float carrying thirteen young girls in white, with badges for each of
                    the original states, and banners saying "Erin go Bragh" and "E Pluribus
                    Unum."
            Speeches began at the Statehouse at 12:30. They had been momentarily delayed because somebody forgot
                    to provide chairs for the dignitaries. The governor called the meeting to order. Then came prayer, a
                    reading of the Declaration, and an oration of healthy length by Byron K. Elliott. That afternoon
                    there were balloon ascents, including a wedding aloft, horse racing, and a one-hundred-piece
                    fireworks display. The firemen managed to get a stream of water to rise 250 feet in the air for
                    seven minutes, until a water main broke from too much pressure. Picnics happened everywhere, and, as
                    in smaller towns, stores and houses were covered with patriotic decorations.
            So it went. Examples could be multiplied, but obviously the Centennial Fourth was great occasion
                    everywhere, a happy pause in the middle of the depression of the 1870s. At 
                        Philadelphia
                     the Exhibition continued to play to large crowds, which increased as the weather cooled
                    in the fall, and by the time it closed on November 10 it had collected over eight million paid 
                  
                     23 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger-Standard, May 12, 1876.
                  
                     24
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, July 5, 1876.
               
                     admissions, probably meaning upwards of two million different
                    people.
            Now to ask two or three questions about the Centennial, especially the Centennial Fourth. Was it
                    commercialized? There were some indications of this, but fewer than one might expect, even given the
                    fact that advertising as we now know it was hardly yet in its infancy. There were, of course, no
                    references to the Buy-centennial as there were in 1976, though one newspaper made an analogous
                    comment, that the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Exhibition celebrated a "fifty-centennial," which was the price of
                    admission to the grounds at 
                        Fairmount
                     Park.25 L. S. Ayres, in a primitive display advertisement in June,
                    did advise ladies to buy new hats so as to look their best on the Centennial Fourth.26 The German paper in 
                        Huntingburg
                     carried an advertisement for the "Centennial Wein-und-Bier
                        Saloon."27 A physician from 
                        Goshen
                    , named Coover, visited the Exhibition with his wife and daughters, stopping in
                            
                  Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
               , to see again the room he was born in, seventy years
                    before. According to the 
                        Goshen
                     paper, "the Doctor gives a very interesting account of things there as they
                    appeared to him; and comes to the conclusion that after all the exhibition is one grand advertising
                    scheme, as well as one of the greatest shows of the age."28 But perhaps
                    Dr. Coover was just being crotchety. 
                        Philadelphia
                     itself undoubtedly prospered. The high prices of food and drink at the Exhibition have
                    already been referred to; they occasioned, almost inevitably in that day of Petroleum V. Nasby and
                    lesser dialecticians, a dialect joke: a customer from 
                        Arkansas
                    , at one of the restaurants at the Exhibition, complained about paying a dollar for a
                    cup of coffee and a roll. Restaurant keeper: "Veil, sare, ze price he may luke large, zat I
                    admete; but zen, sare, reflect that you nafer hafe another shance like zese for une hundret
                        years."29 The chutzpah prize of the Centennial,
                    however, probably should go to one General James D. McBride of 
                        Ohio
                    . The general, according to an 1879 report of the 
                        United States
                     House of Representatives' Select Committee on the Centennial, had put together
                    "a work of art" bearing the signatures of "the administrators of the 
                        United States
                     Government at the beginning of the Second Century." McBride wanted Congress to
                    buy it for $5,000, which he claimed was "but half its value." The
                    committee advised the 
                  
                     25 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger-Standard, May 12, 1876.
                  
                     26
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, June 15, 1876.
                  
                     27 Huntingburgh Signal, October 19, 1876.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Goshen
                            
                            Democrat, May 31, 1876.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., June 21, 1876.
               
                     House not to so legislate. McBride was perfectly entitled to
                    sell copies of his "work of art" as a legitimate private speculation, said the
                    committee, but it went on to say: "Unlike those who signed the Declaration of Independence
                    in 1776, the men who signed General McBride's document did not pledge their lives,
                    fortunes, and sacred honor to perform any hazardous or noble act for their country or for the
                    benefit of mankind, and your committee do not believe they expect or desire any eulogy from the
                    present Congress."30
            
            In short, a degree of commercialization there undoubtedly was, and had the Americans of that day been
                    familiar with the mass advertising techniques and the media of this day, the commercialization might
                    well have been greater. But one is more impressed with the absence of Centennial profit making and
                    with the rarity—given the normal Yankee willingness to make an honest buck and the fact
                    that it was an age of patent medicines and quackery—with which the Centennial opportunity
                    was seized for shabby exploitation.
            Much more evident is the widespread participation in the celebration and the seriousness with which
                    the occasion was taken. How widespread was it? We have already seen evidence of that, and plenty
                    more exists: the "personals" columns of small-town newspapers were studded with
                    the names of local citizens who went to 
                        Philadelphia
                     despite the fear of smallpox and the scarcity of hotel space, including a man named
                    George Dietz of New 
                        Albany
                    , who walked to 
                        Philadelphia
                    , in his seventy-ninth year, using a hickory walking stick which he said he had cut
                    himself in 1810 on the future site of New 
                        Albany
                    .31 Something like twenty-five thousand out-of-town visitors
                    converged on 
                        Indianapolis
                    , then a city of sixty thousand, and similar migrations occurred all over the country.
                    Everybody took part, or so it seems. It was, as the German editor from 
                        Huntingburg
                     put it, "a triumph of the individual freedom of the people."32 And it was something special. The term "Fourth of July
                    oratory" was already a cliche, and firecrackers and parades were longtime commonplaces. But
                    frequently one finds a note that the Centennial Fourth was an opportunity for national rededication.
                    The Americans of the time were much given to laughing at themselves, as we have seen, but they never
                    laughed at the Centennial itself or what 
                  
                     30 U.S., Congress, Select Committee on the Centennial, House Report no. 94, 45 Cong., 3 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 1866), February 4, 1879.
                  
                     31 Huntingburgh Signal, June 29, 1876.
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., June 1, 1876. "Die amerikanische Ausstellung ist ein
                            Triumph der individuellen Freiheit des Volks."
               
                     they believed it represented. One of the rare critical
                    comments—and it is an exception which proves the rule—came from a 
                        Terre Haute
                     editor, who claimed: "There has been no celebration here worth speaking of for
                    several years. ‘Independence Day’ is a name that has grown antiquated, out of
                    date—almost obsolete. It should not be so. This is the year in which to revive it and
                    relearn its old-time meaning. … Don't be afraid of indulging in the
                    ‘spread eagle’ style of rhetoric. It is just the thing."33 The ideological content of the speeches and editorials of the Centennial
                    observance was not especially complex. Indeed it was rather predictable and not always infused with
                    utter fidelity to historical fact—as when one writer, upon learning "that George 
                        Washington
                     had a street fight with a political opponent, and was knocked down by him just as a
                    common man might have been," declared that it was "time to stop searching through
                    the old records."34 You can imagine what such a man would have thought
                    of Charles A. Beard's Economic Interpretation of the Constitution, but
                    Beard was at that moment only a two-year-old in 
                        Knightstown
                     [Indiana]. Certainly the content of Centennial rhetoric and, I think it is safe to
                    assume, the ideas in the minds of a great many people who were inarticulate was serious. I could
                    prove it to you by reading William Evarts' speech on July 4 at 
                        Philadelphia
                    ; but that would be overkill, and we (or soon only I) would be here all afternoon,
                    because Evarts may have exceeded them all in length if not in originality. The Centennial statements
                    normally contained the following elements: thankfulness that the fathers had taken the fateful step
                    that they had in July of 1776; intense pride that government of, by, and for the people had been
                    instituted then and had continued for a hundred years; recognition that government by the consent of
                    the governed continued to provide an example to the other people of the world—as one
                    writer put it, "a beacon light which shall lead them out of civil and religious
                    thraldom"; and a belief that free institutions provided "the surest
                    foundation" not only "for civil and religious liberty" but also for
                    "national prosperity." Often, too, the orations recognized that America was not
                    perfect, "that however much … [the American people] may be separated in regard
                    to the measures necessary to secure to the fullest extent the enjoyment of the privileges conferred,
                    that they are a unit in regard to the preservation of their liberties and in honoring the patriotic
                    men who pledged their fortunes, 
                  
                     33
                            
                                Terre Haute
                            
                            Saturday Evening Mail, July 1, 1876.
                  
                     34
                            Ibid., July 8, 1876.
               
                     their lives and their sacred honors to secure the priceless boon
                    of civil liberty." And finally, the statements noted that the second century was about to
                    begin: "To-morrow is the opening of the new century, and let all the people rejoice and
                    give thanks for the blessings enjoyed and seek divine protection for the future, that they may hand
                    down the precious heirloom of human freedom to their children unimpaired."35 The theme of rejoicing was heartfelt; the belief in perfect ideals, even amid an imperfect
                    world, sincere.
            A few words should now be said about the context of the times. In that context the simple joyfulness
                    of the Centennial celebration stands out in some relief. We may think, some of us today, that the
                    Bicentennial has been tarnished—not irretrievably corroded, but tarnished—by
                    Watergate, the 
                        North Vietnam
                     imbroglio, political assassinations, civil unrest, and other unhappy events of the last
                    decade or so. All of those things are certainly not encouraging, but look at the context of the
                    Centennial: a deep depression in the national economy, ruinous and cruel to many capitalists and
                    workers alike. It was a natural calamity, lasting over five years from 1873 through 1878, which
                    nobody knew how to stop, least of all by concerted government action; a storm that simply had to be
                    weathered. Besides that, there was corruption in high places. The whiskey ring scandal had broken
                    the previous winter, implicating even Grant's secretary, Orville Babcock. On the Centennial
                    Fourth the secretary of war, William W. Belknap, was under impeachment for selling Indian trading
                    posts for his own profit. The outcome of the ensuing presidential election was to be corrupted,
                    almost certainly, by widespread vote fraud. The problems go on and on. Reconstruction was coming to
                    an end, not with a bang but a whimper, its idealistic hopes a forlorn memory and the freedmen
                    forgotten and on their way to southern rural peonage. Custer's fracas at the Little Big
                    Horn was another reminder of the nation's inability to come to humane terms with the
                    Indians. There was increasing use of patent medicines containing opiates and other narcotics and, as
                    a by-product of the depression, the first appearance of tramps, the industrial dispossessed who were
                    incomprehensibly, in middle-class eyes, given to violence toward limb and property. Major cities
                    were practically bankrupt because so many people had so little money with which to pay their taxes.
            These were just the visible problems. Beneath the surface of day-to-day events changes were already
                    taking place which 
                  
                     35 New 
                                Albany
                            
                            Ledger-Standard, July 3, 5, 1876.
               
                     would transform American society in its second hundred years,
                    especially the first half of it, even more than it changed in its first century. In the 1870s
                    farmers ceased to be a majority of the labor force, and that was the first of several indicators
                    that the traditional agrarian way of life was ending, giving way eventually to the metropolitan
                    majority of today.36 The depression of the 1870s revealed a deep estrangement
                    between labor and capital—most explosively in the bloody interstate railroad strike of
                    1877 but in other ways as well—heralding the so-called "labor problem"
                    that would bedevil American society for another seventy years or more. The sources of immigration
                    were beginning to change, bringing groups of people who would sorely test the Centennial
                    celebrants' commitment to the idea of America as a beacon to the world's
                    oppressed. Many of the native-born were to fail that test. John D. Rockefeller and his associates
                    were quietly gaining control of nearly all of the oil refining in the country and would shortly
                    incorporate the Standard Oil Trust as the nation's first real monopoly and first really big
                    business, together with certain railroads.
            Thus the Centennial celebration was a relaxed and joyful moment amid very hard and troubled times,
                    harder and more troubled than our own. But I do not think it is appropriate to close a survey of so
                    happy an occasion as the Centennial on a somber note. It may well be that a historian at the
                    Tricentennial in 2076 would be able to tell us a lot of unpleasant things about ourselves of which
                    we are blissfully unaware. And certainly the Centennial celebrants, for all their problems, did not
                    have to face the main difficulty confronting the founders in 1776—seven years of war, at
                    bad odds, against a very powerful enemy. After all, 1876 was a year not without its interesting
                    events in addition to the Centennial. Mark Twain published one book that year, Tom
                        Sawyer (though Horatio Alger published two). Thomas A. Edison patented the mimeograph.
                    Melville Dewey produced the first version of his decimal system, and Henry Roberts the first edition
                    of his Rules of Order. The Supreme Court started hearing arguments on the Granger
                    cases. Alexander Graham Bell and Elisha Gray each filed patent applications for the telephone, and
                    Melville Bissell came out with the carpet sweeper. Although Jesse James was on the loose, Bat
                    Masterson arrived in Dodge City to bring it law and order. The summer was hot, but you could get a
                    ten-pound cake 
                  
                     36 U.S., Bureau of the Census, Historical Statistics of
                                the 
                                    United States
                                : Colonial Times to 1970 (bicentennial edition, 
                                Washington
                            , 1975), series D 16–17, D 76–77, pp. 1:127, 1:134.
               
                     of ice delivered to your door for sixty cents a week.37 The puzzling contrast between Grant's mighty success as a general
                    and his lackluster somnolence as president was explained by the 
                        New York
                    
                    Sun: the man in the White House for the past eight years was not Grant at all.
                    Grant had had an accident during the 1868 campaign, and the Republicans, fearful of losing the
                    election, had replaced him with a double named N. Plover, "some western bum."38
            
            The American Chemical Society was founded in 1876, as was the American Library Association and Johns
                    Hopkins University in 
                        Baltimore
                    , as the first educational institution in America devoted primarily to graduate training
                    and research. President Daniel Coit Gilman of Johns Hopkins invited Thomas H. Huxley, the noted
                    British exponent of evolution, to give a set of opening lectures. Randel, in his book on the
                    Centennial, is quite fond of one of Huxley's passages as a reflection on the Centennial;
                    and so am I, and with it I will subside. Huxley said: 
                        I cannot say that I am in the slightest degree impressed by your bigness, or your material
                            resources, as such. Size is not grandeur, and your territory does not make a nation. The
                            great issue, about which hangs a true sublimity, and the terror of overhanging fate, is what
                            are you going to do with all these things? What is to be the end to which these are the
                            means? You are making a novel experiment in politics on the greatest scale which the world
                            has yet seen. Forty millions at your first century, it is reasonably to be expected that, at
                            the second, these states will be occupied by two hundred millions of English-speaking
                            people, spread over an area as large as Europe. … You and your descendants have
                            to ascertain whether this great mass will hold together under the forms of a republic, and
                            the despotic reality of universal suffrage; whether state rights will hold out against
                            centralization, without separation; whether centralization will get the better, without
                            actual or disguised monarchy; whether shifting corruption is better than a permanent
                            bureaucracy; and as population thickens in your great cities, and the pressure of want is
                            felt, the gaunt spectre of pauperism will stalk among you, and communism and socialism will
                            claim to be heard. Truly America has a great future before her; great in toil, in care, and
                            in responsibility; great in true glory if she be guided in wisdom and righteousness; great
                            in shame if she fail. I cannot understand why other nations should envy you, or be blind to
                            the fact that it is for the highest interest of mankind that you should succeed, but the one
                            condition of success, your sole safeguard, is the moral worth and intellectual clearness of
                            the individual citizen. Education cannot give these, but it may cherish them and bring them
                            to the front in whatever station of society they are to be found; and the universities ought
                            to be, and may be, the fortresses of the higher life of the nation.39
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  37 Randel, Centennial, chapters 2–3,
                        9–11, passim.
               
               
                  38 "ein westlicher Bummler," according to the
                        Huntingburgh Signal, which reproduced the 
                            New York
                        
                        Sun story, June 8, 1876.
               
                  39 Randel, Centennial, 65–66.
            
         
         
         
            The Federalists and the Coming of the War, 1811–1812
            
                    Donald R. Hickey
                    ∗
                
            Most scholars who have written on the origins of the War of 1812 have focused on the Republican
                        party.1 This is not surprising since the Republicans were the dominant
                    party, and it was their decision that carried the nation into war. The opposition, however, has
                    received less attention than it deserves. The Federalists in this period are usually dismissed as
                    desperate and embittered losers willing to do almost anything to recapture power.2 That politics played a part in Federalist strategy in the War Congress is certainly
                    undeniable. What is rarely appreciated, however, is that policy played a role too. While the
                    Republicans were busy forging a consensus in favor of full-scale war against Britain, the
                    Federalists were formulating their own program for vindicating the nation's rights. They
                    advocated outfitting and expanding the navy and authorizing merchantmen to arm for defense because
                    they believed that a 
                  
                     ∗ Donald R. Hickey is assistant professor of history, 
                                Wayne
                             State College, 
                        Wayne, Nebraska
                     , and editor of The
                                Midwest Review.
                  
                  
                     1 Henry Adams, History of the 
                                    United States
                                 during the Administrations of 
                                    Jefferson and Madison
                                
                      (9 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1889–1891); Alfred T. Mahan, Sea Power and Its
                                Relations to the War of 1812 (2 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1905); Julius W. Pratt, Expansionists of 1812 (
                                New York
                            , 1925); George R. Taylor, "Prices in the 
                                Mississippi
                             Valley preceding the War of 1812," Journal of Economic
                                and Business History, III (November, 1930), 148–63; George R. Taylor,
                            "Agrarian Discontent in the 
                                Mississippi
                             Valley preceding the War of 1812," Journal of Political
                                Economy, XXXIX (August, 1931), 471–505; Margaret K. Latimer, "
                                South Carolina
                            —A Protagonist of the War of 1812," American
                                Historical Review, LXI (July, 1956), 914–29; Norman K. Risjord,
                            "1812: Conservatives, War Hawks, and the Nation's Honor," William and Mary Quarterly, XVIII (April, 1961), 196–210;
                            Bradford Perkins, Prologue to War: 
                                    England
                                 and the 
                                    United States
                                , 1805–1812 (Berkeley, 1961); Reginald Horsman, The Causes of the War of 1812 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1962); Roger H. 
                                Brown
                            , The Republic in Peril: 1812 (
                                New York
                            , 1964); J. C. A. Stagg, "James 
                                Madison
                             and the ‘Malcontents’: The Political Origins of the War
                            of 1812," William and Mary Quarterly, XXXIII (October, 1976),
                            557–85.
                  
                     2 The standard view of the Federalists can be found in Henry Adams,
                                History of the 
                                    United States
                                 during the Administrations of 
                                    Jefferson and Madison
                                . There is a more favorable view in Samuel Eliot Morison, The Life and
                  
               
                     carefully limited, undeclared naval war was the best way to
                    defend the nation's commerce. This plan was in line with tradition since Federalists had
                    launched a limited maritime war under similar circumstances in 1798. Thus their behavior in 1812 was
                    not based simply on political expediency but reflected tradition and policy as well.
            The Twelfth or War Congress convened on November 4, 1811. In his opening address to that body,
                    President James Madison spoke of Britain's "hostile inflexibility" and
                    recommended that the 
                        United States
                     be put into "an armor and an attitude demanded by the crisis."3 Three weeks later Republican Peter B. Porter, chairman of the House Foreign
                    Relations Committee, introduced six resolutions to take the sense of the House on the subject of war
                    preparations. These resolutions called for filling the ranks of the existing army, raising
                    additional regulars, recruiting volunteers, authorizing the use of the militia, fitting out the
                    navy, and allowing merchantmen to arm for defense.4 Each resolution received
                    overwhelming approval, and in the months that followed Congress enacted eight major war measures.
                    Five of these laws fulfilled the promises of the Porter resolutions on everything except the arming
                    of merchant vessels. Two others provided for the purchase of ordnance and the construction of
                    coastal fortifications, while the last authorized an eleven-million-dollar war loan.5
            
            Federalists were traditionally opposed to hostile measures aimed at Great Britain, but there was
                    considerable sentiment in favor of supporting these Republican-sponsored resolutions and bills.
                    Spearheading the Federalist movement in favor of war preparations was Josiah 
                        Quincy
                    , scion of an old and distinguished 
                        Massachusetts
                     family that had won national prominence in Revolutionary times. Not yet forty, 
                        Quincy
                     was able, energetic, and ambitious, but he lacked the discretion and humility that most
                    old school Federalists deemed essential to 
                  
                     Letters of Harrison Gray Otis, Federalist, 1765–1848 (
                                Boston
                            , 1913). Recent studies of the party have been sympathetic but have ignored or
                            attacked Federalist views on foreign policy. See David Hackett Fischer, The
                                Revolution of American Conservatism: The Federalist Party in the Era of Jeffersonian
                                Democracy (
                                New York
                            , 1965); James M. Banner, Jr., To the 
                                    Hartford
                                 Convention: The Federalists and the Organization of Party Politics in 
                                    Massachusetts
                                , 1789–1815 (
                                New York
                            , 1970); Linda K. Kerber, Federalists in Dissent: Imagery and
                                Ideology in Jeffersonian America (
                                Ithaca
                            , 1970).
                  
                     3 Speech of James 
                                Madison
                            , November 5, 1811, Annals of Congress, 12 Cong., 1 Sess., 13.
                  
                     4 Report of the House Foreign Relations Committee, [November 29,
                            1812], ibid., 373–77.
                  
                     5 These laws can be found in the appendix of Annals of
                                Congress, 12 Cong., 1 Sess.
               
                     good character.6 Along with John and John 
                        Quincy
                     Adams, with whom he maintained a lasting friendship, 
                        Quincy
                     did not fit the usual Federalist mold. Although less Anglophobic than the Adamses, he
                    believed that Federalists had little to gain by befriending 
                        England
                    . "As to the British," he once said, "there is a foolish
                    leaning upon them among some of our friends. … The truth is, the British look upon us as
                    a foreign nation, and we must look upon them in the same light."7 Like the younger Adams and so many other Federalists who drifted into the
                    Republican camp, 
                        Quincy
                     found it frustrating to be always on the losing side. Yet his solution to this problem
                    was not to jump to the other party, but to turn his own into a winner.
            
               
                        Quincy
                     outlined his strategy in a pair of letters to Harrison Gray Otis in late 1811.
                    Republicans talked of war, he said, but even "the highest toned" of the war party
                    conceded privately that war was unlikely because the people were not ready for it. This refrain,
                    said 
                        Quincy
                    , was a familiar one. Over the past six years Republicans had often threatened war; yet,
                    the result was always more commercial restrictions. The war talk, 
                        Quincy
                     thought, was no more serious in 1811 than it had been in the past. It was a blind,
                    designed to publicize Federalist opposition and secure greater support for the restrictive system.
                    These restrictions, in turn, would insure the destruction of the commercial interest and the
                    continued dominance of the planting classes.8
            
            Federalists must avoid this trap, 
                        Quincy
                     asserted. They must divest themselves of their pro-British image and refute the charge
                    that they were "more British than the British themselves." To accomplish this they
                    must support war preparations without, however, committing themselves on the issue of war itself.
                    Although 
                        Quincy
                     considered war unlikely and undesirable, he personally believed that it was preferable
                    to the restrictive system. An Anglo-American war, he argued, would do little permanent damage to
                    either country. America was too weak and unprepared to injure Britain, and the British were too
                    deeply committed to the European war to mount a major offensive against the 
                        United States
                    . War, 
                        Quincy
                     insisted, 
                  
                     6 Edmund 
                                Quincy
                            , Life of Josiah 
                                    Quincy
                                 of 
                                    Massachusetts
                                
                      (4th ed., 
                                Boston
                            , 1868); Samuel Eliot Morison, "Josiah 
                                Quincy
                            ," Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928–1936), XV, 308–11; Robert A. McCaughey, Josiah 
                                    Quincy
                                , 1772–1864: The Last Federalist (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1974).
                  
                     7 Josiah 
                                Quincy
                             to Eliza 
                                Quincy
                            , March 26, 1812, in 
                                Quincy
                            , Life of Josiah 
                                    Quincy
                                
                     , 254.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Quincy
                             to Harrison Gray Otis, November 8, 26, 1811, Harrison Gray Otis Papers (
                                Massachusetts
                             Historical Society, 
                                Boston
                            ).
               
                     would quickly reveal the nation's weakness. It would
                    expose the Republicans to contempt, drive them from power in disgrace, and thus lay the foundation
                    for the reestablishment of the Anglo-American accord that had been so profitable for the 
                        United States
                     in the 1790s.9
            
            
               
                        Quincy
                    's plan looked to the ultimate good of the nation, but even so his motivation
                    was largely political. By preempting the preparedness issue, he hoped to back the administration
                    into a corner. If Federalists supported war measures, Republicans could not fall back on the
                    restrictive system with a plea that the "British party" opposed stronger measures.
                    Deprived of this alternative, the administration would have only two choices: retreat from the brink
                    of war in disgrace or initiate hostilities with the country unprepared and the people unready.
                    Either way, 
                        Quincy
                     reasoned, Federalists could expect to make political capital.
            
               
                        Quincy
                    's strategy of promoting war preparations drew considerable support from
                    Federalists, in part because of its political appeal. Over the years the Republicans had often
                    exploited America's deep-seated Anglophobia, winning votes and elections by identifying
                    their Federalist opponents as the pro-British party. To avoid being victimized by this tactic again,
                    many Federalists were eager to shed their pro-British image. "The temper of the Country
                    does not favor opposition [to the Republican administration] at this period," said
                    Congressman Thomas R. Gold of 
                        New York
                    ; "we hope to avoid being amalgamated with [the] British." We will go
                    as far as necessary, Senator James A. Bayard of 
                        Delaware
                     told a friend, "to convince the country that we have no British
                        partialities."10
            
            Some Federalists also shared 
                        Quincy
                    's view that war might yield political dividends. Robert Walsh of 
                        Philadelphia
                     suggested that war would clear the vision of the people and accelerate 
                  
                            9
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     10 Thomas R. Gold to Nathan Appleton, [December, 1811?], Nathan
                            Appleton Papers (
                                Massachusetts
                             Historical Society); James A. Bayard to [William H. Wells?], January 12, 1812,
                            in Elizabeth Donnan, ed., Papers of James A. Bayard, 1796–1815 (
                                Washington
                            , 1915), 188. See also William Reed to Timothy Pickering, November 12, 1811,
                            January 20, 1812, Timothy Pickering Papers, microfilm reels 29 and 30 (
                                Massachusetts
                             Historical Society); Harmanus Bleecker to Henry D. Sedgwick, December 27, 1811,
                            Henry D. Sedgwick Papers (
                                Massachusetts
                             Historical Society); Samuel Taggart to John Taylor, December 14, 1811, in Mary
                            R. Reynolds, ed., "Letters of Samuel Taggart, Representative in Congress,
                            1803–1814," Proceedings of the American Antiquarian
                            Society, XXXIII (October, 1923), 370; William R. Davie to John Steele, February 10,
                            1812, in Kemp P. Battle, ed., "Letters of William R. Davie," James Sprunt Historical Monographs (No. 7, 1907), 70; 
                                Boston
                            
                            Gazette, reprinted in 
                                Boston
                            
                            Columbian Centinel, December 21, 1811, and in Keene Newhampshire Sentinel, December 28, 1811.
               
                     the expulsion of the "dem[a]gogues" in power.
                    Gouverneur Morris was more emphatic. If the administration plunged the nation into a British war, he
                    predicted, "six months' taste of it [would] bring the people to their
                        senses."11 War was also seen as a means of getting rid of the
                    restrictive system. Republican economic sanctions had already been on the statute books for almost
                    six years without achieving any appreciable diplomatic results. Unable to point to any diplomatic
                    gains, Republicans resorted to defending the system as a means of encouraging domestic manufactures
                    and building national self-sufficiency.12 These claims, however, only served to
                    convince Federalists that the real purpose of the restrictive system was to foster manufacturing at
                    the expense of commerce. Given the prospect of endless restrictions, the further erosion of trade,
                    and the destruction of the commercial classes, many Federalists wondered if war might not be
                        preferable.13
            
            But if politics played a role in the appeal of 
                        Quincy
                    's strategy, so too did tradition. Most Federalists were willing to support
                    some war preparations because, as Congressman Harmanus Bleecker of 
                        New York
                     put it, these were "measures of 
                  
                     11 Robert Walsh to Virgil Maxcy, May 15, 1812, Galloway-Maxcy-Markoe
                            Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            ); Diary of Gouverneur Morris, May 2, 1812, cited in Anne C. Morris, ed., The Diary and Letters of Gouverneur Morris (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1888), II, 539. For similar expressions see 
                                Baltimore
                            
                            Federal Republican, reprinted in 
                                Charleston
                            
                            Courier, October 8, 1811; William R. Davie to John Steele, February 10,
                            1812, in Battle, "Letters of William R. Davie," 70.
                  
                     12 Governor Simon Snyder to 
                                Pennsylvania
                             Assembly, December 5, 1811, Niles Register, I (December 21,
                            1811), 282; Richard J. Purcell, 
                        
                                    Connecticut
                                 in Transition, 1775–1818 (
                                Washington
                            , 1918), 132; Louis Martin Sears, Jefferson and the Embargo
                            (Durham, 1927), 124–25; Gilbert Chinard, Thomas Jefferson: The
                                Apostle of Americanism (
                                Boston
                            , 1929), 471; Dumas Malone, Jefferson and His Time (5 vols. to
                            date, 
                                Boston
                            , 1948–1974), V, 611, 620, 629. Republicans later used the same
                            argument to justify the stoppage of trade caused by the war. See speech of James 
                                Madison
                            , December 7, 1813, Annals of Congress, 13 Cong., 2 Sess.,
                            543; 
                                Boston
                            
                            Independent Chronicle, August 16, 1813; 
                                Washington
                            
                            National Intelligencer, November 25, 1813.
                  
                     13 William Reed to Timothy Pickering, November 12, 1811, Pickering
                            Papers, microfilm reel 29; Samuel W. Dana to Pickering, January 30, February 3, 1812, ibid., reel 30; Samuel Taggart to John Taylor, December 14, 1811, in
                            Reynolds, "Letters of Samuel Taggart," 370; James A. Bayard to [William H.
                            Wells?], January 12, 1812, in Donnan, Papers of James A. Bayard, 188;
                            Abijah Bigelow to Hannah Bigelow, March 16, 1812, in N. David Scotti, "Additions to
                            the Letters of Abijah Bigelow," Proceedings of the American
                                Antiquarian Society, LXXIX (October, 1969), 246; Francis Bailey to James 
                                Madison
                            , November 6, 1811, James 
                                Madison
                             Papers, microfilm reel 13 (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress); 
                                Philadelphia
                            
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Gazette, October 3, 1811; 
                                Boston
                            
                            Gazette, November 18, December 2, 1811; 
                                Hartford
                            
                            
                        
                                    Connecticut
                                 Courant, January 22, February 5, 1812; 
                                Boston
                            
                            Columbian Centinel, 
                                Boston
                            
                            Weekly Messenger, and 
                                Baltimore
                            
                            Federal Republican, cited in 
                                Boston
                            
                            New-
                                    England
                                 Palladium, December 3, 6, 20, 1811.
               
                     the old federal school."14
                    
                        Quincy
                     later accused those who rejected his proposals with "abandoning the doctrines
                    of [George] 
                        Washington
                    ."15 Federalists had always believed that if the nation
                    were to achieve its diplomatic goals it must be properly armed and that the best way to avoid war
                    was to be prepared for it. They had acted on these maxims in the 1790s when they created the army
                    and navy and launched a program to fortify the coast. And after falling from power in 1801, they had
                    repeatedly attacked the administration for permitting the nation's defenses to deteriorate
                    at a time when threats from abroad grew steadily more ominous. Thus, supporting defense measures in
                    1811 and 1812 was very much in accord with traditional Federalist policies. The 
                        Boston
                    
                    Weekly Messenger aptly summed up the matter when it said: "The propriety
                    of maintaining an adequate force for the defence of the country at all times has ever been a federal
                    principle. Even in time of profound peace, it has been considered a maxim of wisdom to be prepared
                    for war; and surely there is nothing in the present situation of the world, which should induce
                    prudent statesmen to depart from so rational a principle."16
            
            Another reason many Federalists supported 
                        Quincy
                    's strategy—and this too reflected their heritage—was the
                    possibility that the war might be limited to the high seas as it had been in 1798. "If you
                    had a field to defend in 
                        Georgia
                    ," said 
                        Quincy
                    , "it would be very strange to put up a fence in 
                        Massachusetts
                    . And yet, how does this differ from invading 
                        Canada
                    , for the purpose of defending our maritime rights?"17
                    Federalists believed the nation's rights could best be defended on the high seas, and they
                    had long advocated expanding the navy and arming merchantmen.18 They were
                    willing to support a 
                  
                     14 Bleeeker to Henry D. Sedgwick, December 27, 1811, Sedgwick Papers.
                  
                     15 Quoted in 
                                Quincy
                            , Life of Josiah 
                                    Quincy
                                
                     , 241.
                  
                     16
                            
                                Boston
                            
                            Weekly Messenger, reprinted in 
                                Boston
                            
                            Gazette, December 26, 1811. For similar sentiments see Robert Walsh to
                            Virgil Maxcy, December 27, 1811, Galloway-Maxcy-Markoe Papers; William Reed to Timothy
                            Pickering, January 20, 1812, Pickering Papers, microfilm reel 30; statement of James Emott
                            and Josiah 
                                Quincy
                            , January 1, 1812, in Benson J. Lossing, The Pictorial Field-Book
                                of the War of 1812 (
                                New York
                            , 1868), 217n; 
                                Boston
                            
                            Gazette, December 19, 26, 1811; 
                                Boston
                            
                            Gazette, reprinted in 
                                Boston
                            
                            Columbian Centinel, December 21, 1811, and in Keene Newhampshire Sentinel, December 28, 1811; 
                                Hartford
                            
                            
                        
                                    Connecticut
                                 Courant, January 22, 1811; 
                        Newport, Rhode Island
                     , Mercury, December 28, 1811; 
                        Alexandria, Virginia
                     ,
                                Gazette, October 15, 1811; 
                                Philadelphia
                            
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Gazette, reprinted in 
                                Alexandria
                            
                            Gazette, December 13, 1811; 
                        Charleston, South
                            Carolina
                     , Courier, March 23, April 23, 1812.
                  
                     17 Speech of Josiah 
                                Quincy
                            , January 25, 1812, Annals of Congress, 12 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            957.
                  
                     18 For Federalist support of naval expansion, see Report of the
                            Secretary of the Navy, January 12, 1801, American State Papers: Naval
                            Affairs (4 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1832–1861), I, 74–75; speech of Gouverneur Morris,
                            February 24,
               
                     maritime war, but it had to be free of commercial restrictions
                    and territorial ambitions. As the 
                        Philadelphia
                    
                    
                  
                            United States
                         Gazette put it: "War will be cheerfully encountered and manfully
                    prosecuted, whenever it shall be found indispensable to the enjoyment of a free and lawful commerce.
                    But it must be a war of force, of fighting; not of embargo and
                    restriction—A war by which the rights of commerce are to be asserted and enforced not
                    abandoned and prohibited—A war undertaken with means adapted to the protection of lawful
                    trade, and the defence of our maritime frontier, and not to the conquest of foreign
                        territories."19
            
            Maritime war also appealed to Federalists because of their own spectacular success with it in the
                    late 1790s. From 1794 to 1798 
                        France
                     had seized almost twenty-million-dollars worth of American property on the high seas
                    and in French ports. In the summer of 1798 the 
                        United States
                     had authorized American naval ships and armed merchantmen to attack armed vessels
                    flying the French flag. Within a year the American fleet had swept the Caribbean free of French
                    raiders and had put an end to the seizure of American ships and cargoes. As a result, much property
                    had been saved, and marine insurance rates had dropped sharply all along the Atlantic seaboard.20 Federalists could not hope for such a rich harvest in 1812 because the nation
                    faced two antagonists, one of whom had a powerful fleet at sea. Although preferring to focus the
                    nation's wrath on 
                        France
                    , Federalists could see advantages in a limited maritime 
                  1803, Annals of Congress, 7 Cong., 2 Sess., 199–200; speeches
                            of William Milnor, December 7–8, 1807, ibid., 10 Cong., 1
                            Sess., 1062, 1066, 1071; speech of Josiah 
                                Quincy
                            , December 10, 1807, ibid., 10 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            1140–41; speech of James A. Bayard, February 12, 1810, ibid.,
                            11 Cong., 2 Sess., 562–63. See also roll call votes, ibid., 9
                            Cong., 1 Sess., 848, 1076. For Federalist support of the arming of merchantmen, see speeches
                            of Samuel W. Dana, April 17, 1806, ibid., 9 Cong., 1 Sess., 1064; December
                            8, 1807, ibid., 10 Cong., 1 Sess., 1064–65; February 27, 1809,
                                ibid., 10 Cong., 2 Sess., 1191; May 30, 1809, ibid.,
                            11 Cong., 1 Sess., 155–56; January 25, 1810, ibid., 11 Cong., 2
                            Sess., 1324. See also speech of James Hillhouse, November 29, 1808, ibid.,
                            10 Cong., 2 Sess., 171; speech of James Lloyd, quoted in Henry Cabot Lodge, Life and Letters of George Cabot (
                                Boston
                            , 1878), 491; Josiah 
                                Quincy
                             to John Adams, December 15, 1808, quoted in 
                                Quincy
                            , Life of Josiah 
                                    Quincy
                                
                     , 146; Rufus King to Timothy Pickering, January 19, 1808, January 15,
                            1809, in Charles R. King, The Life and Correspondence of Rufus King (6
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1894–1900), V, 65, 128.
                  
                     19
                            
                                Philadelphia
                            
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Gazette, May 30, 1812.
                  
                     20 George A. King, The French Spoliation Claims, in
                            U.S., Senate Document no. 451, 64 Cong., 1 Sess. (U.S. Serial Set 6953),
                            52; Marshall Smelser, The Congress Founds a Navy, 1787–1798
                            (Notre Dame, Ind., 1959), 166–91; Robert G. Albion and Jennie B. Pope, Sea Lanes in Wartime: The American Experience (2nd ed., [Hamden, Conn.],
                            1968), 81–83; Report of the House Naval Committee, January 17, 1799, American State Papers: Naval Affairs, I, 69.
               
                     war even if both belligerents were included in the reprisals.
                    The navy could perform patrol and convoy duty as it had in 1798. Armed merchantmen could not meet
                    British warships on an equal footing, but they could resist the depredations of the small but pesky
                    privateers that roamed the seas on behalf of 
                        France
                     and her satellites. Moreover, if successfully contained, a maritime war would be less
                    costly than an assault on 
                        Canada
                    , and it would spare the American coast from excessive bombardment or lengthy blockade.
                    Finally, such a war could be brought to an end by executive order without resorting to the sort of
                    time-consuming negotiations that prolonged so many wars.21
            
            Both tradition and politics, then, contributed to the popularity of 
                        Quincy
                    's strategy. This is not to suggest that all Federalists supported 
                        Quincy
                    , for a sizable number did not. In New 
                        England
                     especially, many Federalists of the old school thought that 
                        Quincy
                     was playing with fire and that neither the party nor the country would profit. Timothy
                    Pickering, for one, did not see how Federalists could avoid the charge of "Br[itish]
                    gold" unless they voted for a declaration of war against 
                        England
                    —a course he considered unthinkable.22 Theodore Sedgwick
                    feared that 
                        Quincy
                    's tactics would precipitate a British war, a French alliance, and hence
                    "irretr[iev]able ruin."23 Other Federalists in the region
                    shared these views,24 but as Tables 1 through 3 show, even New 
                        England
                     Federalists were willing to vote for some of the proposed war measures.
            On naval and maritime preparations, Federalists from all sections of the union were of essentially
                    one mind. Federalists in the House of Representatives supported Porter's resolution to
                    outfit the navy by a margin of 30 to 3, and Federalists in both houses voted almost unanimously for
                    the various bills and 
                  
                     21
                            
                                Baltimore
                            
                            Federal Republican, [December 4, 1811], reprinted in Niles' Register, I (December 7, 1811), 251–52, and widely
                            reprinted in the Federalist press; 
                                Boston
                            
                            Gazette, December 5, 1811; 
                                Philadelphia
                            
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Gazette, December 9, 1811; An Address of the Minority to Their
                            Constituents, [June, 1812], Annals of Congress, 12 Cong., 1 Sess., 2218;
                            Address of 
                                New Jersey
                             Federalist Convention, July 4, 1812, printed in 
                                Newport
                            
                            Mercury, August 8, 1812; speeches of James Lloyd, February 27, 1812, and
                            Josiah 
                                Quincy
                            , January 25, 1812, Annals of Congress, 12 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            131–32, 145–46, 963–64; 
                                Brown
                            , Republic in Peril, 109.
                  
                     22 Timothy Pickering to Samuel W. Dana, January 16, [February 11?],
                            1812, Pickering Papers, microfilm reel 14; Pickering to William Reed, January 31, 1812, ibid.
                  
                  
                     23 Richard E. Welch, Jr., Theodore Sedgwick, Federalist:
                                A Political Portrait (
                                Middletown
                            , Conn., 1965), 247.
                  
                     24 Henry D. Sedgwick to Theodore Sedgwick, Jr., December 18, 1811,
                            Henry D. Sedgwick Papers; 
                                Boston
                            
                            New-
                                    England
                                 Palladium, December 3, 6, 20, 1811; 
                                Quincy
                            , Life of Josiah 
                                    Quincy
                                
                     , 241; McCaughey, Josiah 
                                    Quincy
                                
                     , 72–73.
               
                     amendments to outfit and expand the navy and to build coastal
                    fortifications. There was also general agreement on the merits of authorizing merchantmen to arm for
                    defense. This proposition, the 
                        Baltimore
                    
                    Federal Republican said, "meets our peculiar approbation."25 In the House, Federalists supported Porter's resolution on arming
                    merchantmen by a vote of 30 to 2. In the Senate, Samuel W. Dana later sponsored two
                    bills—apparently with the approval of his colleagues—that would permit
                    merchant vessels to arm and associate for mutual protection.26 In each case,
                    however, Federalists were careful to draw the line at defense. When Republican Robert Wright
                    proposed that armed merchantmen be allowed to undertake offensive as well as defensive operations,
                    all the Federalists except 
                        Quincy
                     and William Reed voted against it.27 This opposition was in keeping
                    with Federalist policies of 1798 when merchants had been allowed to protect their own property but
                    not to prey upon the enemy's.
            Although Federalists fully supported preparations for war at sea, they differed over measures for war
                    on land. While Federalists from the middle and southern states were inclined to support land war
                    measures, their colleagues from New 
                        England
                     were not. On Porter's resolutions to fill the ranks of the existing army,
                    raise additional regulars and volunteers, and authorize the use of the militia, New 
                        England
                     Federalists delivered a total of 31 yeas and 44 nays, while Federalists from the middle
                    and southern states voted 24–0 and 34–4 respectively. Likewise, when these
                    proposals were enacted into law, New 
                        England
                     Federalists voted 19–44, while Federalists from the middle states voted
                    14–2 and southern Federalists 14–11. As these figures suggest, there was a
                    persistent division in the party over the merits of raising new troops. Even those Federalists who
                    supported these measures, however, were not sanctioning a Canadian war. They simply believed that
                    the country ought to be prepared to defend itself on land as well as at sea.28
            
            
               
                  25
                        
                            Baltimore
                        
                        Federal Republican, [December 4, 1811], reprinted in Niles' Register, I, 251.
               
                  26 For the Dana proposals see Annals of Congress, 12
                        Cong., 1 Sess., 199–201, 208–209, 220–22.
               
                  27
                        Annals of Congress, 12 Cong., 1 Sess., 564.
               
                  28
                        
                            Pittsburgh
                        
                        Gazette, January 31, 1812; 
                            Charleston
                        
                        Courier, April 23, 1812; Timothy Pickering to Samuel W. Dana, [February 11?],
                        1812, Pickering Papers, microfilm reel 14. Federalists unanimously opposed a resolution that
                        called for raising troops specifically for the invasion of 
                            Canada
                        . See Annals of Congress, 12 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                    1058–69.
            
            
            Federalists showed somewhat greater agreement in opposing measures to finance the nation's
                    war program. In the House they voted unanimously against a Republican resolution to impose new
                    taxes. Having suffered a revolt against their own tax program in 1800, Federalists hoped to turn the
                    tables on the Republicans in 1812. Most Federalists also opposed the bill to authorize a war loan,
                    although 
                        Quincy
                     and six other members of the party voted for it.
            On the whole, then, Federalists supported maritime preparations, divided on land-related proposals,
                    and opposed financial measures. The party's level of internal agreement was consistently
                    high on a broad range of legislation. Table 4 shows Federalist cohesion levels on all issues voted
                    on in the War Congress. Even on military measures and loan proposals, which for Federalists were two
                    of the most divisive issues of the session, party cohesion did not fall below 80 percent. Federalist
                    cohesion on most other issues was somewhat higher. For the session as a whole it was 90.8 percent in
                    the House and 93.8 percent in the Senate.
            What differences Federalists did have gradually receded as the session progressed. Table 5 shows
                    Federalist cohesion levels for each month of the War Congress. A general upward movement in the
                    party's cohesion index is apparent. In the House of Representatives the index was 88.2
                    percent in November, 1811, and 79 percent in December. Thereafter, it advanced steadily upward,
                    reaching a peak of 99 percent in the first eighteen days of June. In the Senate the pattern was more
                    irregular, but the trend was essentially the same. For three of the first four months, the index in
                    this house was in the eightieth percentile. Thereafter it was over 90 percent, and in June it jumped
                    to 100 percent.
            Thus, by the spring of 1812, Federalists in both houses of Congress had closed ranks. By then all the
                    major war preparations had been enacted into law. As far as most Federalists were concerned, 
                        Quincy
                    's strategy had run its course. 
                        Quincy
                     himself still believed that his colleagues should be more aggressive, that if they
                    wanted to get rid of the restrictive system, they "must be willing to wish, prefer, and
                    even demand war."29 But few Federalists were willing to go this far.
                    Most would support war only if it were clearly substituted for the restrictive system and carefully
                    limited to the high seas. As the session wore on, it became increasingly clear that neither of these
                    requirements was likely to be met.
            
               
                  29 Quoted in 
                            Quincy
                        , Life of Josiah 
                                Quincy
                            
                  , 257.
            
            
            Federalists could count on considerable Republican support in their fight against the restrictive
                    system, but their struggle was in vain. Several attempts were made to modify or to repeal the
                    nonimportation law, which was the latest of the restrictive measures. Federalists fully supported
                    these efforts but in each case met with defeat.30 This meant that some twenty
                    million dollars worth of American property would remain hostage in 
                        England
                    , imprisoned there by the nonimportation law. It also suggested that the Republican
                    majority considered war a supplement to the policy of economic coercion rather than a substitute for
                    it.
            Federalists also had considerable Republican support for their maritime policies, but once again they
                    struggled in vain. 
                        Quincy
                     and Lloyd delivered powerful speeches for naval expansion, calling upon the nation to
                    upgrade the fleet by building additional frigates or ships of the line.31
                    Federalists fully supported these proposals, but agrarian Republican majorities sent each measure
                    down to defeat.32 Moreover, although the Senate gave its approval to
                    Dana's proposals to allow merchantmen to arm for defense, House Republicans quietly shelved
                    these measures to await further developments.33 All this suggested that
                    Republicans intended to vindicate the nation's maritime rights in 
                        Canada
                     rather than on the high seas. A northern land war, however, was not the sort of war
                    Federalists could endorse. As much as they wished to vindicate the nation's rights, they
                    could not support a war of conquest aimed at 
                        Canada
                    .
            On June 1, 1812, President 
                        Madison
                     recommended a declaration of war against 
                        England
                    . Over the next eighteen days Congress took the matter under advisement. By this time
                    even 
                        Quincy
                     no longer felt he could vote for war, and, as the tables show, Federalists voted as a
                    bloc on the war bill. In the House they unanimously supported a bid by 
                        Quincy
                     to make the end 
                  
                     30
                            Annals of Congress, 12 Cong., 1 Sess., 188–89, 235, 239,
                            1280–1314. See also 
                                Boston
                            
                            Gazette, March 23, 1812.
                  
                     31 Speeches of James Lloyd, February 27, 1812, and Josiah 
                                Quincy
                            , January 25, 1812, Annals of Congress, 12 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                            131–47, 949–68. These speeches were widely reprinted in the Federalist
                            press. For similar expressions see 
                                Boston
                            
                            Gazette, March 5, 1812; 
                                Boston
                            
                            New-
                                    England
                                 Palladium, April 7, 1812; 
                                Newport
                            
                            Mercury, October 12, 1811; 
                                Hartford
                            
                            
                        
                                    Connecticut
                                 Mirror, March 9, 1812; 
                                Hartford
                            
                            
                        
                                    Connecticut
                                 Courant, reprinted in 
                                Alexandria
                            
                            Gazette, January 28, 1812; 
                                Alexandria
                            
                            Gazette, February 12, 22, 1812; 
                                Charleston
                            
                            Courier, March 17, 23, 1812.
                  
                     32
                            Annals of Congress, 12 Cong., 1 Sess., 164, 999, 1003–1004.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., 220–21, 1347, 1353–54. See also speech of
                            Josiah 
                                Quincy
                            , April 3, 1812, ibid., 1605. The Dana proposals passed the
                            Senate without a recorded vote.
               
                     of the restrictive system coterminous with the declaration of
                    war, but this proposal was defeated.34 In the Senate they unanimously supported
                    a series of proposals that called for limited maritime war against one or both of the belligerents.
                    Although one of these propositions was very nearly successful, in the end all were defeated.35 Thus the war bill passed both houses of Congress essentially unchanged and
                    was signed into law on June 18.36
            
            With the passage of the war bill the decision was sealed for full-scale war against 
                        England
                     with 
                        Canada
                     as the target. Federalists already had steeled themselves for opposition, and for the
                    duration of the contest they opposed nearly every war measure except those connected to the navy or
                    maritime defense.37 They might have supported a war limited to the high seas,
                    especially if 
                        France
                     had been included in the hostilities. A limited maritime war might have served the
                    nation as well as, if not better than, the one chosen by Republicans. In opting for a broader war
                    the administration assumed an enormous burden for itself. It also insured that it would get little
                    help from its domestic opponents. For in support of a Canadian war, the Federalists would open
                    neither their hearts nor their purses.
            
               
                  34
                        Ibid., 1633–34.
               
                  35
                        Ibid., 266–271, 284–87, 296–97.
               
                  36
                        Ibid., 297, 1637.
               
                  37 See Donald R. Rickey, "Federalist Party Unity and the War of
                        1812," Journal of American Studies, XII (April, 1978),
                        23–39.
            
            
            
               TABLE 1 Federalist Votes on Porter's Resolutions December, 1811 House
                        of Representatives
               
                  
                  Resolution
               
               
                  
                  To raise additional regulars
                  To raise volunteers
                  To fill ranks of existing army
                  To call out militia
                  To outfit navy
                  To arm merchantmen
               
               
                  
                            New England Federalists
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Quincy (Mass.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
               
               
                  Reed (Mass.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
               
               
                  Sullivan (N.H.)
                  
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
               
               
                  Chittenden (Ver.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
               
               
                  Moseley (Conn.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
               
               
                  Pitkin (Conn.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
               
               
                  Tallmadge (Conn.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
               
               
                  White (Mass.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
               
               
                  Ely (Mass.)
                  +
                  +
                  
                  +
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Taggart (Mass.)
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  +
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Wheaton (Mass.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Bigelow (Mass.)
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Brigham (Mass.)
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Champion (Conn.)
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Jackson (R.I.)
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Law (Conn.)
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Sturges (Conn.)
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Potter (R.I.)
                  +
                  0
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Davenport (Conn.)
                  +
                  
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
            
            
            
               TABLE 1 (cont.)
               
                  
                  Resolution
               
               
                  
                  To raise additional regulars
                  To raise volunteers
                  To fill ranks of existing army
                  To call out militia
                  To outfit navy
                  To arm merchantmen
               
               
                  
                            Middle State Federalists
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Bleecker (N.Y.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
               
               
                  Fitch (N.Y.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
               
               
                  Gold (N.Y.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
               
               
                  Livingston (N.Y.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
               
               
                  Milnor (Pa.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
               
               
                  Emott (N.Y.)
                  
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
               
               
                  
                            Southern Federalists
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Baker (Va.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
               
               
                  Breckenridge (Va.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
               
               
                  Goldsborough (Md.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
               
               
                  McBryde (N.C.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
               
               
                  Ridgely (Del.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
               
               
                  Wilson (Va.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
               
               
                  Key (Md.)
                  
                  
                  
                  +
                  
                  +
               
               
                  Pearson (N.C.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
               
               
                  Stuart (Md.)
                  0
                  
                  
                  +
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lewis (Va.)
                  
                  0
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Sheffey (Va.)
                  0
                  0
                  +
                  
                  +
                  0
               
            
            + = yes vote
            0 = no vote
            [ ]= absent or abstaining
            Source: Annals of Congress, 12 Cong., 1 Sess., 419–20,
                    545–48, 565–66.
            
            
               TABLE 2 Federalist Votes on War Measures in the Twelfth Congress December,
                        1811-June, 1812 House of Representatives
               
                  
                  Bill or Proposal1
                  
               
               
                  
                  To declare war
                  To impose taxes
                  To authorize war loan
                  To raise additional regulars
                  To raise volunteers
                  To fill ranks of existing army
                  To build ships of the line
                  To build frigates
                  To outfit navy2
                  
                  To build coastal forts
               
               
                  
                            New England Federalists
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Quincy (Mass.)
                  +
                  
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Reed (Mass.)
                  +
                  
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Sullivan (N.H.)
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  +
                  
                  
                  0
               
               
                  Taggart (Mass.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  
                  0
               
               
                  White (Mass.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Brigham (Mass.)
                  +
                  
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Chittenden (Ver.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Moseley (Conn.)
                  +
                  
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Pitkin (Conn.)
                  
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Jackson (R.I.)
                  +
                  
                  +
                  +
                  
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Tallmadge (Conn.)
                  +
                  
                  
                  
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Potter (R.I.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  +
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Ely (Mass.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Bigelow (Mass.)
                  +
                  
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  
               
               
                  Wheaton (Mass.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  
                  0
               
               
                  Davenport (Conn.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Sturges (Conn.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Law (Conn.)
                  +
                  
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Champion (Conn.)
                  +
                  
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
            
            
            
               TABLE 2 (cont.)
               
                  
                  Bill or Proposal1
                  
               
               
                  
                  To declare war
                  To impose taxes
                  To authorize war loan
                  To raise additional regulars
                  To raise volunteers
                  To fill ranks of existing army
                  To build ships of the line
                  To build frigates
                  To outfit navy2
                  
                  To build coastal forts
               
               
                  
                            Middle State Federalists
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Livingston (N.Y.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  
                  
               
               
                  Bleecker (N.Y.)
                  +
                  
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  
                  0
               
               
                  Gold (N.Y.)
                  +
                  
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  
                  0
               
               
                  Emott (N.Y.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Milnor (Pa.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  
                  0
               
               
                  Fitch (N.Y.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  
                            Southern Federalists
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Baker (Va.)
                  +
                  
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Ridgely (Del.)
                  +
                  
                  
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
               
               
                  Breckenridge (Va.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  McBryde (N.C.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  
                  0
                  
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Stuart (Md.)
                  +
                  +
                  
                  +
                  +
                  
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Key (Md.)
                  
                  
                  +
                  
                  
                  
                  0
                  
                  
                  0
               
               
                  Sheffey (Va.)
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  
                  +
                  
                  0
                  0
                  
                  
               
               
                  Goldsborough (Md.)
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  +
                  
                  
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Wilson (Va.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Pearson (N.C.)
                  
                  
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Lewis (Va.)
                  +
                  
                  
                  
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
            
            + = yes vote
            0 = no vote
            [ ]= absent or abstaining
            Source: Annals of Congress, 12 Cong., 1 Sess., 566–67, 691,
                    800–801, 999, 1003–1005, 1030–31, 1092, 1155, 1637.
            
               
                  1 There were no recorded votes on the passage of the militia and ordnance
                        bills.
               
                  2 Many Federalists abstained on this vote to show their disgust with the
                        defeat of naval expansion.
            
            
            
               TABLE 3 Federalist Votes on War Measures in the Twelfth Congress December,
                        1811—June, 1812 Senate
               
                  
                  Bill or Proposal1
                  
               
               
                  
                  To declare war
                  To raise additional regulars
                  To call out militia
                  To fill ranks of existing army
                  To purchase ordnance
                  To build frigates
               
               
                  
                            New England Federalists
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Lloyd (Mass.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
               
               
                  Dana (Conn.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Hunter (R.I.)
                  +
                  +
                  
                  
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  Goodrich (Conn.)
                  +
                  +
                  +
                  0
                  0
                  0
               
               
                  
                            Southern Federalists
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  Horsey (Del.)
                  
                  +
                  
                  
                  +
                  0
               
               
                  Bayard (Del.)
                  +
                  
                  
                  
                  
                  0
               
            
            + = yes vote
            0 = no vote
            [ ]= absent or abstaining
            Source: Annals of Congress, 12 Cong., 1 Sess., 33, 85, 99, 164, 192–93,
                    297.
            
               
                  1 There were no recorded votes on the passage of the navy, fortification,
                        volunteer, and loan bills.
            
            
            
               TABLE 4 Federalist Cohesion Levels in the Twelfth Congress November 4,
                        1811—June 18, 1812 By Issue
               
                  
                  House
                  Senate
               
               
                  Type of Legislation
                  Number of Roll Calls
                  Cohesion Index1
                  
                  Number of Roll Calls
                  Cohesion Index1
                  
               
               
                  Naval Measures
                  8
                  96.9%
                  1
                  100.0%
               
               
                  Coastal Forts
                  2
                  100.0
                  —
                  —
               
               
                  Maritime War2
                  
                  3
                  95.8
                  6
                  100.0
               
               
                  Military Measures3
                  
                  44
                  80.6
                  21
                  89.0
               
               
                  Tax Proposals
                  21
                  94.8
                  1
                  100.0
               
               
                  Loan Proposals4
                  
                  3
                  87.5
                  —
                  —
               
               
                  Full-Scale War5
                  
                  16
                  99.2
                  12
                  100.0
               
               
                  Trade Restrictions
                  23
                  96.2
                  12
                  100.0
               
               
                  Misc. Foreign Votes
                  7
                  97.4
                  9
                  92.9
               
               
                  Cong. Recess
                  7
                  94.7
                  5
                  92.3
               
               
                  Cong. Apportionment
                  7
                  77.1
                  5
                  100.0
               
               
                  Contested Election
                  4
                  100.0
                  —
                  —
               
               
                  Statehood Bills
                  4
                  89.3
                  —
                  —
               
               
                  Private Bills
                  11
                  95.6
                  8
                  75.7
               
               
                  Misc. Domestic Votes
                  8
                  90.7
                  3
                  84.6
               
               
                  Totals
                  168
                  90.8%
                  83
                  93.8%
               
            
            Source: Annals of Congress, 12 Cong., 1 Sess.
            
               
                  1 This figure measures the unity of the party. It is reached by dividing
                        the party majority on roll call votes by the party's total vote. If, for example, on
                        three roll calls, Federalists voted 8–2, 9–1, and 10–0, then
                        the cohesion index would be 27/30, or 90 percent.
               
                  2 Includes 3 House votes on the arming of merchantmen, and 6 Senate votes
                        on the war bill to limit the contest to the high seas.
               
                  3 Includes all votes on the army, volunteers, militia, and ordnance.
               
                  4 Includes treasury note proposals.
               
                  5 Includes all votes on the war bill except the Senate votes to limit the
                        contest to the high seas.
            
            
            
               TABLE 5 Federalist Cohesion Levels in the Twelfth Congress November 4,
                        1811—June 18, 1812 By Month
               
                  
                  
                  House
                  Senate
               
               
                  Month & Year
                  
                  Number of Roll Calls
                  Cohesion Index1
                  
                  Number of Roll Calls
                  Cohesion Index1
                  
               
               
                  November
                  1811
                  11
                  88.2%
                  —
                  —
               
               
                  December
                  1811
                  12
                  79.0
                  13
                  89.7
               
               
                  January
                  1812
                  20
                  81.9
                  6
                  100.0
               
               
                  February
                  1812
                  23
                  86.1
                  4
                  88.2
               
               
                  March
                  1812
                  30
                  94.8
                  12
                  83.0
               
               
                  April
                  1812
                  40
                  94.7
                  23
                  95.5
               
               
                  May
                  1812
                  14
                  96.3
                  7
                  90.0
               
               
                  June 1–18
                  1812
                  18
                  99.0
                  18
                  100.0
               
               
                  Totals
                  
                  168
                  90.8%
                  83
                  93.8%
               
            
            Source: Annals of Congress, 12 Cong., 1 Sess.
            
               
                  1 See note 1 on Table 4.
            
         
         
         
            Proclamation
            
            
         
         
         
            Awards of Merit and Certificates of Commendation from American Association for State and Local
                    History
            The Certificate of Commendation is given for outstanding achievement by an
                    individual or an organization in the field of state, provincial, and local history, but with that
                    achievement judged in the light of local limiting circumstances rather than on a basis of overall
                    excellence in the 
                  United States and Canada
                as a whole. The certificate is a pat on the back and says to
                    the individual or organization that receives it: "We think you are doing a wonderful job in
                    your area, and we want to recognize you for it."
            The Award of Merit was the original award of the American Association for State and
                    Local History and is still the backbone of its competition. It is given for excellence of
                    accomplishment or program in the field of state, provincial, and local history and is in no way
                    judged relative to local limiting circumstances. The giving of the Award of Merit is the same as
                    saying to everyone: "This is public acknowledgement by the American Association for State
                    and Local History that this accomplishment or this program, in comparison with all similar
                    accomplishments and programs in North America, deserves the adjective excellent."
            Nomination forms are available from Gayle Thornbrough, excecutive secretary, Indiana Historical
                    Society, 315 West 
                        Ohio
                     Street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46202. Miss Thornbrough is chairman for nominations from Indiana for 1979. All
                    nominations must be made on the "Awards Nomination Form" and be postmarked by not later than May 21, 1979. Each nominator must include a supporting letter
                    which is explicit in indicating why the award or certificate seems merited. Each nominator is also
                    responsible for making certain that at least two or three other persons send similar statements directly to the state chairman. Finally, each nominator should send relevant
                    supporting material such as pamphlets, newspaper clippings, programs, scripts, and books.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Indiana: A Bicentennial History. By Howard H. Peckham. (
                        New York
                    : W. W. Norton & Company, Inc., for American Association for State and Local
                    History, 1978. Pp. ix, 207. Maps, notes, illustrations, suggestions for further reading, index.
                    $8.95.)
            Indiana, as Howard H. Peckham observes in his bibliographic essay, "has been fortunate in
                    the quality and quantity of her historians" (p. 197), and a number of distinguished volumes
                    on the history of the Hoosier state have appeared since John B. Dillon's pioneering work of
                    1843. Most recently, on the occasion of the state's sesquicentennial, William E.
                    Wilson's interpretive and incisive Indiana: A History (1966) appeared,
                    and a still-to-be-completed five-volume study of the state was launched. The latest general work on
                    Indiana history is Peckham's contribution to The States and the Nation
                    series, a fifty-one-volume set being published jointly by the American Association for State and
                    Local History and the W. W. Norton Company in observance of the national bicentennial. Regrettably,
                    this volume, marred by odd proportions, inconsistencies, and a distressingly large number of factual
                    errors, will not join the list of distinguished Indiana histories.
            Peckham is well known to many readers of this journal, having previously been both the executive
                    secretary of the Indiana Historical Society and director of the Indiana Historical Bureau, and he
                    has written on several Indiana topics. His primary field of research and publication since leaving
                    Indiana for 
                        Michigan
                     in 1953 has been Indians and Indian wars of the colonial and revolutionary periods. Not
                    surprisingly, the best chapters in the book under review are the early ones on Indiana's
                    revolutionary and territorial days. The author is also on familiar ground and writes exceedingly
                    well about Indiana's justly renowned crop of authors and the Indiana character. Other
                    chapters cover such topics as the state's religious and educational heritage, its economy
                    neatly balanced between industry and agriculture, and two typically Hoosier pastimes, politics and
                    sports. On politics Peckham writes with considerable assurance and insight, providing a series of
                    interesting sketches of some of Indiana's more engaging politicians (including a few
                    scoundrels), but on sports he is inadequate and antiquated. He deals only with the 
                        Indianapolis
                     500 and that peculiar species of "Hoosier madness," basketball,
                    presenting on these subjects as on other topics a view appropriate to the 1950s but not to the
                    current situation.
            
            Given the stated purpose of this volume, and the series as a whole, it is difficult to know what
                    standards to use in judging the book. Intended as a personal interpretation of the state's
                    distinctive qualities and written for a "general audience," Indiana:
                        A Bicentennial History has many good features. Its style is graceful and at times witty;
                    there are examples of catchy phrasing; and a number of novel, even provocative, interpretations
                    concerning the Hoosier people appear. Overall, however, the book totters between two stools, resting
                    firmly on neither. It is too thoroughly historical to be an interpretation of the modern Hoosier
                    state and people, but it is too sketchy, unbalanced, and poorly researched to serve as a good,
                    one-volume history of Indiana, something still sorely needed. Surprisingly, Peckham has considerable
                    difficulty in discussing basic geographic matters, especially river courses, and his efforts at
                    compressing such complicated events as the Constitutional Convention of 1850–1851 or the 
                        Indianapolis
                     school desegregation case filed in 1968 and still in the federal courts lead to many
                    errors and distortions. There are also misstatements of fact concerning, for example, the early days
                    of the automobile industry, the general history of political parties in the state and nation, and
                    recent developments in higher education in Indiana, and many other sections of the book are
                    inadequately based upon even the relevant secondary sources. For some of the factual mistakes,
                    including the all-too-frequent typographical errors, the series editors, of course, must share
                    responsibility, but the failure to incorporate the results of recent research and writing is another
                    matter. The author obviously is quite familiar with the state and the elusive character of its
                    people, but the same is not true of the current literature on them. The book is not to be condemned
                    for its weaknesses, many simply the result of undue haste in publication, but it is sad that a
                    unique opportunity for a valuable and timely interpretation of Hoosiers and their state by a gifted
                    writer and historian has been missed.
            There is a redeeming feature of the book. Peckham demonstrates extraordinary ability in delineating
                    the Hoosier character, its early formation, and its gradual modifications. Deciding early in the
                    book that what is truly distinctive about Indiana is its people, Peckham traces the various social
                    and ethnic strands that came together in the Hoosier state, examines the complex blend of political,
                    economic, religious, and cultural (particularly literary) influences on Hoosiers over the past
                    century and a half, and in a brief, thoughtful "Summing Up" chapter concludes that
                    the people of Indiana do indeed have  special qualities.
                    Unruffled, generally conservative (even those who consider themselves liberal), reflective, and
                    wary, Hoosiers have demonstrated a stability and maturity which is likely to endure. Although his
                    synthesis of the state's historical development is disappointing, Peckham is to be
                    congratulated upon his analysis of the Hoosier character.
            
               Indiana University-Purdue University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Ralph D. Gray
         
         
            
               The Postal History of Indiana. By J. David Baker. 2 volumes. (
                        Louisville
                    : Leonard H. Hartmann, Philatelic Bibliopole, 1976. Pp. x, vi, 1061. Maps,
                    illustrations, tables, bibliography. $75.00.)
            "The 
                        United States
                     postal system … can be easily characterized by a continuous reduction of
                    postal rates and a continuous increase in services" (II, 861). This statement might be
                    challenged by many citizens today, but no one has more right to say it than J. David Baker. In The Postal History of Indiana, in fact, the statement is thoroughly demonstrated
                    with the specific history of Indiana set in the context of national developments. This massive work
                    is a potpourri of history and philately, of mundane and fascinating narrative, of extremely
                    interesting illustrative materials, and of tabulations which make the work a valuable research tool.
            Volume I begins with a chronological development of the area from pre-Indiana Territory through
                    statehood. Do not read this narrative for its historical expertise; it is choppy, sources are not
                    given, and quotation marks are often baffling. Actual historical errors are generally quite obvious;
                    the postal history, which must be considered definitive, is the focal point of the
                    work and must be judged apart from the general historical survey. These historical chapters are
                    extremely important, however, for their demonstration of two things: the crucial importance of the
                    postal service in the development of the western settlements and the relationship of the postal
                    service to the transportation history of the country. In the 1930s and 1940s, for example, the
                    failure of the post office to help the financially troubled railroads assured the loss of local
                    connections, "thereby effectively destroying the most efficient and expeditious postal
                    distribution system this country has ever had" (II, 659). The move to the highways and the
                    development of rural free delivery, following the earlier treatments of road development and
                    stagecoaches, steamboats, and canals, provide  a complete
                    overview of the Indiana postal service in the context of the growth of Indiana's
                    transportation facilities. The chapters on 
                        Indianapolis
                     provide a case history of the importance of the mails in a town's development.
                    It is not surprising that one of the first considerations for residents of the new state capital in
                    January, 1822, was the establishment of postal service. One of the most interesting historical
                    chapters covers the mails in the Civil War and was written by Richard Graham. Considering how many
                    Civil War letters are extant, especially in private hands, this section should be required reading
                    for a great many people. Included also is Graham's edited version of the Indiana section of
                    Frederick H. Dyer's A Compendium of The War of the Rebellion emphasizing
                    locations of units.
            Throughout the historical chapters and in separate sections are included the most complete listings,
                    often illustrated, of Indiana postmarks and covers in existence. Postal markings and covers vary
                    incredibly and are fascinating; manuscript, handstamped, machine cancels, counties, cities,
                    steamboat routes, railroad routes, highway post offices, rural free delivery, stamps, illustrations,
                    imprints, and services are some facets of the variety included. There is also an interesting section
                    by Theodore Stevens on franks—a privilege easily illustrated today by the congressional
                    newsletters which periodically appear in mailboxes in Indiana.
            One extensive part of the history deserves particular notice—the listing of Indiana post
                    offices and postmasters from 1800 through 1970. The immensity of the information is indicated by its
                    format: the 1800–1880 listing occupies 170 printed pages; the 1890–1970
                    listing is included as a microfiche at the back of Volume II. The listing is arranged alphabetically
                    by post office name and gives for each the county, date established, date closed, and chronological
                    list of postmasters with dates of service. Changes in town names are also listed and cross
                    referenced. This section has proved invaluable and highly reliable in research now being conducted
                    on members of the Indiana General Assembly.
            Much of the material in these two volumes may attract the interest of no one except philatelists, but
                    that would be unfortunate. Local and regional historians could learn a lot about an area's
                    growth and development by sorting through the information and illustrations contained in this postal
                    history. Baker, as well as his contributors and collaborators, deserves much credit for compiling
                    these materials and for making them available. At the risk of sounding trite, this set ought to be
                    in  every major library in Indiana, and it should be consulted at
                    least by a wide variety of researchers into Indiana historical topics.
            
               Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Pamela J. Bennett
         
         
            
               Indiana University: Midwestern Pioneer. Volume IV, Historical
                        Documents Since 1816. By Thomas D. Clark. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1977. Pp. xii, 803. Tables, figures, index.
                    $15.00.)
            There is little that is new under the academic sun. With the exception of developments that spring
                    from technological change, few aspects of current university life represent a sharp break with the
                    concerns and practices of the past. One need change only the vocabulary and mode of expression, and
                    nearly every debate on contemporary campuses has had its counterpart in the past. It is this
                    characteristic that gives the academician who reads the documents in this volume the feeling that he
                    has heard it all before.
            Readers familiar with Thomas D. Clark's fine narrative history of Indiana University will
                    especially appreciate this collection of sources, for they add depth and specificity to the
                    narrative account. Selections range from the constitutional origins of the State Seminary in 1816 to
                    a 1968 message from Interim President Herman B Wells, who had just resumed presidential duties
                    during a period of campus unrest. Characteristic of that period, Wells' address was a
                    detailed refutation of charges leveled against Indiana University by various
                    "radical" or disaffected groups. The talk ended with the hope that in the post-
                        North Vietnam
                     War period the university would be "still invulnerable to the pressures that
                    would erode its strength and violate its cherished principles: freedom to teach, to learn, to seek
                    new knowledge and to serve society" (p. 787).
            There is something in this collection for everyone interested in American higher education. Clark has
                    arranged his material chronologically and has assembled documents covering a broad range of
                    subjects. Each section of the book and each document is described in a brief, useful editorial
                    comment. The result is a valuable reference work for members of the Indiana University community and
                    for historians of higher education. All the usual themes are represented: try and find one that is
                    not. A central thread is the continuing argument over the proper location of the institution. In the
                    university's formative  years supporters of the 
                        Bloomington
                     location praised its "central, healthy and delightful situation." 
                        Bloomington
                    's critics decried the prevalence of cholera, the distance from centers of
                    population, and the "litigous, quarrelsome, tricky character of a great many of the people
                    there" (p. 152).
            As with every institution whose roots go back well over a century, Indiana University faced many
                    crises. These problems concerned location, financial support, presidential leadership, number and
                    character of the faculty and the student body, female education, expansion, name changes, building
                    programs, library growth, support services, auxiliary enterprises, competition—for
                    Morrill land grant funds, for state support, for a medical school—retention of faculty
                    members, concern about political interference, athletics, military training, student morals,
                    discipline, social activities, public image, educational philosophy, and many, many more.
            Indiana University is fortunate to have preserved its early documents in contrast with so many
                    colleges and universities whose records went up in smoke with "Old Main." The
                    university is equally fortunate that Clark was chosen to select and present this material, for he
                    has done it well, to the benefit of the university, the state of Indiana, and the historical
                    profession.
            
               The University of Akron, Akron, 
                            Ohio
                        
                George W. Knepper
         
         
            
               Images of the 
                            Ohio
                         Valley: A Historical Geography of Travel, 1740–1860. By John A.
                    Jakle. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1977. Pp. viii, 217. Maps, figures, illustrations, tables, appendix,
                    notes, selected bibliography, index. Clothbound, $12.50; paperbound, $6.00.)
            John A. Jakle explains that his book describes what travelers thought about the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley between 1740 and 1860, the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley being that area drained by the 
                        Ohio
                     River and all of its tributaries. He assigned his work other tasks as well: to explore
                    the evolution and decline of the concept of the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley; to describe the most important images of the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley; to summarize the impressions of place significance in the early 
                        Ohio
                     Valley; to illustrate the "hierarchy of related place images" (p. 6);
                    and to determine not what the region was but what people thought it was. To accomplish this, Jakle
                    relies upon the diaries, journals, and letters of early travelers and observers. Travelers'
                    comments about the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley were  categorized into six images: travel,
                    wild life and nature, aboriginal, military life, pastoral, and urban. Each image was further
                    subdivided. For instance, the travel image discusses methods of travel, travel information, meals
                    and lodging, health and comfort, and the influence of travel.
            Jakle accomplishes his prescribed objectives, but much of what he says will seem familiar to those
                    who are acquainted with the literature. Several of his conclusions, however, are interesting.
                    According to Jakle, the concept of the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley, due to noticeable sectional economic changes, disappeared after 1830, and this
                    area became known as the Middle West, the economic growth of which was interpreted as synonymous
                    with the country's progress. After 1830 states north of the 
                        Ohio
                     River received more attention from travel journalists than those south; after 1850,
                    because of rail travel, the image of the North was urban. Jakle's main point is that much
                    of the personality, landscape, and history of the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley of the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries remains unchanged and is
                    ignored by contemporary Americans who look to lake cities and the Deep South for "a sense
                    of past landscapes" (p. 163). He suggests that the early 
                        Ohio
                     Valley awaits rediscovery.
            Despite Jakle's extensive use of quotations from primary sources, disturbing errors appear
                    in the book. The great Miami war leader was Little Turtle, not "Little Tortoise"
                    (p. 76). Most steamboats plying the inland waters averaged 150 to 175 feet, not "70 to
                    150" (p. 31). Marietta was not built as the "capital of the Northwest
                    Territory" (pp. 69 and 92); all structures in Campus Martius were two-story, not two-and
                    three-story (p. 92). 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , was not "generated" by the National
                    Road (p. 124) but rather was built as the capital of the Buckeye state. Henry Bouquet's
                    expedition was in 1764, not 1759 (figure 5–1, p. 85); the Battle of Fallen Timbers was
                    fought in 1794, not 1796 (figure 5–3, p. 86). There are more.
            The book is well organized and easily read. Its illustrations, charts, and maps are useful in
                    identifying places in the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley. The footnotes are contained at the end of the book, and the selected
                    bibliography will help readers to explore relevant literature. While Jakle's work has some
                    shortcomings, they are not enough to exclude it from the reading lists of those who are interested
                    in the country's western movement.
            
               The 
                            Ohio
                         Historical Society, 
                            Columbus
                        
                Thomas H. Smith
         
         
         
            
               The Mapping of 
                            Ohio
                        : The Delineation of the State of 
                            Ohio
                         through the Use of Manuscript Maps, Printed Maps, and Plats, Sketches and Plans
                        from Original Map Makers with a Narrative which Describes Each Map from Contemporary
                    Sources. By Thomas H. Smith. ([
                  Kent, Ohio
               ]: 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1977. Pp. xiii, 252. Illustrations, notes, maps, appendix,
                    selected bibliography, index. $29.00.)
            Thomas H. Smith's interest in the mapping of 
                        Ohio
                     developed from his use of historical maps to add a geographic or locational dimension
                    to his teaching of 
                        Ohio
                     history. As he spent more and more time with the old maps, he concluded that
                    "the history of a particular area was revealed by its cartography," that within
                    the maps could be found "a two-dimensional story that graphically explained the extension
                    of exploration, the density of Indian populations, the conquest of a territory … and the
                    growth of internal improvements" (p. x). If this statement is interpreted literally, Smith
                    overestimates the ability of maps to explain the past; in fact, his book itself
                    belies that expansive claim. He does not, however, underestimate the value of historical maps as
                    sources and as means to illustrate and illuminate a wide range of historical developments.
            The seven chapters in Smith's book provide a wealth of information about the men who mapped 
                        Ohio
                    , their motives, and their maps. He ties this cartographic history to the history of the
                    state itself but sometimes relegates it to a supporting role, as in the long chapter on military
                    history and early travelers. Other chapters cover a variety of topics: internal improvements, early
                    European explorations and imperial rivalries, the ordering and division of land ("Surveying
                    the State"), the general development of 
                        Ohio
                     ("Mapping the State"), and the development of cities and towns. There
                    is even an unexpected, but fascinating and valuable, chapter on the state's prehistoric
                    earthworks.
            This oversize book is handsome, the product of excellent design, printing, and binding. There are
                    ninety-seven maps, plans, and views reproduced in black and white; many have been greatly reduced,
                    but all are unusually sharp and clear even though some of the originals are obviously stained,
                    faded, or colored. Unfortunately, there are signs of sloppy editing and proofing. For example, some
                    page numbers for internal cross references are not filled in (p. 117, notes 20, 37); there are
                    inconsistencies in the style of citation (p. 117, notes 33 and 35); and there is at least one
                    incomplete sentence (p. 178). In addition to the standard bibliography of sources there is a bonus
                    in  the form of a list of county atlases, but there is no
                    bibliography of the maps, a most serious deficiency.
            
               The Mapping of 
                            Ohio
                        
                does not offer new insights into the history of either the state or its
                    cartography. Rather, the author provides an overview or survey in which he synthesizes information
                    and analysis from a great range of primary and secondary sources. Such synthesis is no mean
                    accomplishment, however, and it should be noted that there is no comparable book available for any
                    other state. This book should serve as a valuable reference for anyone interested in the history of 
                        Ohio
                    , and it belongs in all libraries in the state and in university libraries elsewhere.
            
               The Newberry Library, 
                            Chicago
                        
                John H. Long
         
         
            
               The Social Order of a Frontier Community: 
                     Jacksonville, Illinois
                  , 1825–70. By Don Harrison Doyle. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1978. Pp. xiii, 289. Notes, maps, illustrations, tables, bibliographical essay,
                    index. $12.50.)
            Community studies have become a popular genre in social history, and this exploration of
                            
                  Jacksonville, Illinois
               , from 1825 to 1870 is a splendid contribution to the field.
                    Don Harrison Doyle's book is especially distinguished because, unlike some other works of
                    this type, it is concerned with more than methodological sophistication and interpretation of
                    statistical data. The Social Order of a Frontier Community contains significant
                    insights into community structure and provides a vivid sense of life in midnineteenth century 
                        Jacksonville
                    . This virtue stems from Doyle's central theme—the interaction
                    between community and factionalism and individualism in a frontier atmosphere. 
                        Jacksonville
                    , from its inception in 1825 to its failure to obtain the campus of the state
                    university, is the context in which Doyle traces the institutional, ethnic, and cultural forces
                    which shaped the nature and set the limits of community in this small 
                        Illinois
                     city. As did many other places, 
                        Jacksonville
                     aspired to urban magnificence both as a cultural and business center. The town boosters
                    realized that order within the community would help determine whether it would be culturally and
                    economically successful. The best part of this book shows the manner in which growth and stability
                    were interconnected in the minds and actions of the citizens and the ways in which these aims
                    conflicted with individualism and sectarian and ethnic commitments.
            
            
               The Social Order of a Frontier Community shares several problems common thus far in
                    community studies. Doyle finds, as do others, considerably more upward than downward occupational
                    and property mobility. But this finding, as in the cases of similar conclusions in other studies, is
                    based on those who persisted from one census to another. What about those moving out of the
                    community within ten years? Were they more or less upwardly mobile? Historians must devise ways to
                    trace the transients in order to make any credible assessments of community or national mobility
                    patterns. This volume also shares with most of the other studies the weakness of insufficient
                    examination of family structure. Doyle and his fellow practitioners of local history should measure
                    the impact of family size and age at marriage on mobility and correlate family structure with other
                    variables such as ethnicity, religion, wealth, and occupation.
            Despite these drawbacks, The Social Order of a Frontier Community is an excellent
                    book. Some recent community historians have more exhaustively and imaginatively traced commercial
                    activity and the occupational structure, but none has conveyed a better feeling for the texture of
                    life in a nineteenth century American town.
            
               University of 
                     Illinois,
                                Champaign
                  -
                            Urbana
                        
                Frederic Cople Jaher
         
         
            
               The Slum and the Ghetto: Neighborhood Deterioration and Middle-Class Reform, 
                            Chicago
                        , 1880–1930. By Thomas Lee Philpott. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1978. Pp. xxiv, 428. Illustration, tables, figures, maps, notes,
                    appendixes, index. $17.95.)
            This is a well-researched and provocative critique of housing reformers and settlement workers in 
                        Chicago
                     during the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. Despite minor flaws it is an
                    important contribution to the field of urban history. In the volume Thomas Lee Philpott traces a
                    half century of unsteady progress and enduring discrimination among 
                        Chicago
                    's proletariat, of immigrants being assimilated (sometimes) and then joining
                    "their native neighbors in drawing and holding the color line" (p. xvi). Philpott
                    also dissects the ideas and practices of so-called progressives such as Graham Taylor and Nathan W.
                    MacChesney and indicts them for contributing to the perpetuation of the slum and the ghetto by their
                    timidity, shortsightedness, elitism, and racism. Instead of advocating  public housing and integrated neighborhood centers, they accepted the
                    so-called "business creed" and the "color line."
            Mixing useful quantitative analysis with a lively narrative style, Philpott condemns housing
                    reformers for foolishly presuming the existence of a fundamentally fair wage system and regarding
                    housing as a commodity which the private sector should provide at a profit. He distinguishes between 
                        Chicago
                    's ethnically diverse enclaves and the racial homogeneity of its black ghettos,
                    and he documents the segregationist practices of the 
                        Chicago
                     Real Estate Board, the vigilante methods of neighborhood improvement associations, and
                    the hooliganism of athletic clubs (the members of which, according to Philpott, were more likely to
                    participate in sex orgies than conventional sports). And, although the settlement ideal was
                    allegedly "with, not for," Philpott concludes that settlements were not genuine
                    community centers. Most tenement residents stayed away from them, and decision-making power remained
                    with board members who usually worshipped a "White Anglo-Saxon Protestant" God.
            Despite its readability and informative analysis the book suffers from some organizational and
                    chronological problems emanating from Philpott's decision to structure it around the
                    concept of "the Slum and the Ghetto" (a rather vague title anyway, since ghettos
                    were slums) rather than "Housing Reform and Neighborhood Work." This was the
                    original subtitle of Philpott's doctoral dissertation and is more apt than the
                    book's subtitle, "Neighborhood Deterioration and Middle-Class Reform."
                    The book is not a study of neighborhood deterioration, and even the phrase "middle-class
                    reform" is misleading when applied to the model housing projects of millionaires George M.
                    Pullman, Julius Rosenwald, and Benjamin J. Rosenthal.
            A number of other problems also detract from the volume's overall usefulness. One wishes
                    that the commentary in the fifty-five pages of notes at the end of the book could have been placed
                    within the body of the work since it includes some of Philpott's most ironic witticisms as
                    well as explanations of interpretative differences from various historians. Although The Slum and the Ghetto contains a minimum of factual and grammatical errors, on several
                    occasions Philpott stretches the logic of cause and effect in an effort to show how ineffectual
                    neighborhood workers were. On pages 321–22, for example, he concludes that there was more
                    evidence of community hostility toward Wendell Phillips Settlement than appreciation, giving as
                    proof the fact that some older boys raided a settlement  dance,
                    shooting out some windows and stripping several of the girls before the police could arrive.
                    Philpott might also have gone into more detail about why reformers shied away from public housing
                    and community control over settlements. As critical as he is toward their programs, he might have
                    mentioned whether there were practical alternatives.
            
               Indiana University Northwest, Gary James B. Lane
         
         
            
               History of the 
                            Illinois
                         Central Railroad. By John F. Stover. (
                        New York
                    : Macmillan Publishing Co., Inc., 1975. Pp. xiv, 575. Illustrations, maps, tables,
                    appendixes, notes, bibliography, index. $15.00.)
            Railroad histories today tend to be of several types. Some are written for (and usually by)
                    "buffs," who linger lovingly over the intimate and minute details of equipment,
                    schedules, and technology with little concern for the functioning of the corporation; the economic,
                    social, or political world in which it existed; or the conditions prevalent within the
                    transportation industry. Others are written for (and invariably by) "new economic
                    historians," who deal with models, strategies, and theory and who frequently rely heavily
                    on esoteric statistical analysis. Studies of a third variety present railroads as instruments of
                    urban development, commercial exploitation, financial manipulation, regional integration, or
                    military activity and are not intended as true railroad histories. The Macmillan Railroads of America series, under the general editorship of Thomas B. Brewer, was
                    conceived as a set of volumes that would transcend the limitations of the first two types of studies
                    while incorporating an awareness of the third. From this plan derive both the strengths and
                    weaknesses of this and the other volumes of this series.
            The choice of John F. Stover to author the book on the 
                        Illinois
                     Central was both a natural one—because he is an established and respected
                    railroad historian and a midwesterner who is especially interested in the nineteenth
                    century—and a wise one—because his experience, skill, and breadth of vision
                    enable him to maximize the strengths and minimize the difficulties common to the volumes in the
                    series. For scholars, the greatest drawback of the book is the editorially mandated sparsity of
                    documentation; only one of the twenty chapters has as many as fifteen notes, and fourteen have fewer
                    than ten each. With considerable skill Stover builds sizeable amounts of  supportive data into the text and tables and frequently manages to
                    suggest (without citing) the sources utilized.
            The most remarkable thing about Stover's work is its breadth, for he leaves no aspect of the
                    railroad's past unexplored. With a sensitive blending of economy and detail he describes
                    the passage of the federal land grant legislation, the creation of the corporation, and the building
                    of the main line, before moving into the vast area of operations, expansion, development, and
                    evolution. Here the reasons for and the results of policy decisions are clearly detailed, and
                    individuals and their contributions are deftly characterized. With a shrewd eye and a sure hand
                    Stover then provides lucid accounts of such matters as land sales, equipment acquisition and
                    modification, financial activities, construction, technological changes, traffic patterns, rate
                    structures, employee relations, absorption of other lines, governmental regulation, public
                    relations, speculative suburban development, maintenance, salaries and wages, wartime activities,
                    and the economic diversification of the 1960s and 1970s. As a "Boilermaker" of
                    thirty years standing, he even manages to work in a mention of Purdue's unbeaten football
                    eleven of 1892! Stover's greatest display of virtuosity is, perhaps, the masterful fashion
                    in which he places the 
                        Illinois
                     Central in the broader context of the region, the nation, and the entire transportation
                    industry. This accomplishment is particularly notable in the latter half of the book, which deals
                    with the twentieth century.
            There are, of course, some matters about which there might be a measure of disagreement. Perhaps
                    Stover is too unqualifiedly condemnatory of governmental, especially federal, regulation. It might
                    be suggested that without the federal land grant the main line would have been built only later and
                    in segments, if at all. It is at least worth noting that while the 
                        Illinois
                     Central was marketing its bonds relatively easily in a 
                        London
                     money market that was destablized by the Crimean War, other railroad corporations
                    (whose bonds were not secured by extensive land holdings) were wholly unsuccessful in attracting
                    British investment capital. Additionally, readers might at least suspect that 
                        Illinois
                     Central management was sometimes deserving of more criticism and less approbation than
                    Stover bestows.
            This volume begins with the 
                        Illinois
                     Central only a vision of a modest rail line in a single midwestern state and concludes
                    with the 
                        Illinois
                     Central Gulf stretching from South Dakota to Mobile, 
                        Alabama
                    , and with 
                        Illinois
                     Central Industries embracing such diverse interests (in addition to transportation) as
                         commercial real estate development, automobile mufflers,
                    hosiery, and root beer. Almost unbelievably, the reader has the feeling that he understands how and
                    why these enormous changes took place. And that is both a measure of and a tribute to the
                    accomplishment of Stover.
            
               University of 
                     Louisville,
                                Louisville
                  , Ky. Leonard P.
                Curry
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Kalamazoo
                        : Nineteenth-century Homes in a Midwestern Village. By Peter J. Schmitt.
                    Photographs by Balthazar Korab. (
                        Kalamazoo
                    , Mich.: 
                        Kalamazoo
                     Historical Commission, 1976. Pp. 240. Illustrations, maps, bibliographic essay, index.
                    Clothbound, $10.00; paperbound, $7.50.)
            The current fashion for awareness of the national patrimony has sparked activity in cities across the
                    country to preserve buildings (houses in particular) as physical evidence of achievement and
                    ambition in earlier eras. The 
                        Kalamazoo
                     Historical Commission published this volume no doubt with heightened local awareness in
                    mind, and Peter J. Schmitt has illustrated the changing tastes of that growing midwestern town in
                    the nineteenth century through selection of particular residential examples. The book is organized
                    in chapters based on architectural styles and arranged chronologically. Each chapter begins with a
                    general background on economic and social conditions in 
                        Kalamazoo
                     and the way in which architectural trends have reflected them. Following the
                    introductory pages of each chapter, individual houses are illustrated. Material about the original
                    builder or owner is exhaustively documented by data from the censuses and city directories. Although
                    this information may be of some local interest to the residents of 
                        Kalamazoo
                    , and particularly to the owners of the houses illustrated in the book, the great volume
                    of local research is of limited use to other readers, since the author did not attempt to draw
                    general conclusions about the social motives of the original owners.
            The book is attractive, well designed, and beautifully illustrated. Historic photographs are combined
                    with delicate drawings and current architectural photography by Balthazar Korab, the well-known
                    architectural photographer whose darkened sky technique is effective here in creating a mood. If
                    Schmitt is to be faulted at all, it is for his infrequent, but (to the purist) devastating,
                    aesthetic judgments. The unfortunate alteration of a Greek Revival cottage by the addition of
                    aluminum  siding, plastic shutters set outside the window
                    surrounds, and loss of most original detail is dismissed with the comment "tasteful
                    modifications in the twentieth century" (p. 116). Although the book might mislead the
                    casual-reader with such judgments, its broad style and skillful format make it a generally useful
                    addition to a preservation library.
            
               Historic 
                            Madison
                        , Inc. 
                            Madison
                        , Ind. Thomas Moriarity
         
         
            
               Caesars of the Wilderness: Médard Chouart, Sieur des Groseilliers and
                        Pierre Esprit Radisson, 1618–1710. By Grace Lee Nute. (
                        New York
                    : D. Appleton-Century Company, Inc., and the American Historical Association, 1943;
                    reprinted, 
                        St. Paul
                    : 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society Press, 1978. Pp. xx, 386. Maps, notes, illustrations, appendixes,
                    bibliography, index. Clothbound, $12.50; paperbound, $5.95.)
            Nearly four decades ago Grace Lee Nute told the story of the brothers-in-law Médard
                    Chouart, Sieur des Groseilliers, and Pierre Esprit Radisson. These intrepid seventeenth century
                    French adventurers made several journeys off eastern 
                        Canada
                    , into Hudson Bay, and into the Great Lakes region. Greedy Quebec governors who wanted
                    too large a share of their fur trading profits propelled des Groseilliers and Radisson into history
                    as the Frenchmen who convinced King Charles II of 
                        England
                     to charter the Hudson's Bay Company, thereby contributing to the eventual
                    downfall of New 
                        France
                    .
            Nute's Caesars is a thorough treatment of this and much more. She rescues
                    des Groseilliers and Radisson from biographical oblivion and unravels the confusion about their
                    several explorations and fur trade activities in the political, diplomatic, religious, and economic
                    contexts. Caesars remains the best treatment of the subject, even though the
                    French, Hudson's Bay, and other archives are far from exhausted on related areas. This
                    reprint edition gives availability to a long out-of-print standard work. No changes have been made
                    except for the deletion of an inconsequential illustration and the addition of a helpful map of the
                    travels of des Groseilliers and Radisson. A new introduction explains the relocation and
                    reorganization of some of Nute's sources.
            
               Miami University, 
                     Oxford, Ohio
                  
                Dwight L. Smith
         
         
         
            
               The Political Crisis of the 1850s. By Michael F. Holt. (
                        New York
                    : John Wiley & Sons, 1978. Pp. xix, 330. Tables, selected bibliography, notes,
                    index. $10.95.)
            Historians have long recognized that the secession of the southern states in 1860 and 1861 was a
                    political decision, a rejection of the expressed will of the national electorate in the victory of
                    Abraham Lincoln. The best scholars who have written on the coming of the Civil War have sought
                    explanations of that crucial political decision in economic, moral, and psychic factors that
                    influence political behavior. They have found the essence of the answer in slavery and sectionalism.
            Michael F. Holt locates the cause of secession within the operation of the political mechanism
                    itself, more specifically in the breakdown of the second party system in the 1850s, which, he
                    argues, was not the direct result of slavery and sectionalism. Under a functioning two-party system,
                    politicians, according to Holt, had been able to manage sectional conflicts. The 
                        Texas
                     question of the 1840s was a "party, not a sectional issue," and
                    Calhoun's effort to unite the South against the North across party lines failed. The
                    omnipresent American purpose in the nineteenth century was to maintain a perfect republican society,
                    irrespective of slavery or freedom. Until the early 1850s men had faith that such a society was
                    being preserved through a two-party system, the viability of which was manifested in political
                    conflict at the national and state level. Historians writing about the 1850s, Holt argues, have
                    woefully neglected politics in the states. But what really broke the system was a loss of faith in
                    politics and politicians, owing in part to corruption and in part to a lessening intensity of the
                    issues amid the prosperity of the early 1850s. With this loss of faith the political cement that had
                    held the Union together disintegrated, and secession followed.
            The Republican party, which, according to Holt, was not a true antislavery party, politicized the
                    "slave power conspiracy" theme to justify and assure its own existence. And the
                    lower South, where politics degenerated into a one-party system, found in "Black
                    Republicanism" the foil it needed to sustain its brand of republicanism. Thus the election
                    of Lincoln left it without options other than secession.
            In light of earlier excellent studies on the 1850s, Holt will hardly be surprised if his
                    interpretation is received with some skepticism. Yet it should be said that in several respects this
                    is a very good book. It is written with vigor and clarity from primary sources and with a thorough
                    knowledge of the secondary  literature on the subject.
                    Holt's summary of the history of the second party system is useful; his analysis of Zachary
                    Taylor's independent Whiggery is enlightening; his discussion of the relationship between
                    Republicans and Know Nothings is provocative; his handling of the party system in the states is an
                    important reminder that politics was not confined to national issues and that there are new ways of
                    looking at the 1850s.
            The great problem with the book seems to be that the author tries to do too much with the political
                    theme. To see the 1850s in a new perspective it is not necessary to resort to political
                    determinism—and that is very nearly what Holt does. Probably as much as any decade in
                    American history the myriad forces and interconnections of the 1850s, leading to the Civil War,
                    demand historical synthesis. To depart from that axiom, especially to resort to determinism of any
                    kind, will evoke serious challenge. Even so, Holt has written an important book that anybody
                    concerned with the coming of the Civil War will want to read.
            
               Southern 
                            Illinois
                         University, Edwardsville Patrick Riddleberger
         
         
            
               Lincoln and the Indians: Civil War Policy and Politics. By David A. Nichols. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 1978. Pp. vii, 223. Notes, bibliography, index. $16.00.)
            When writing about the Lincoln presidency, historians generally focus on the Civil War and neglect
                    other matters of national importance, particularly Indian affairs. Nevertheless, the Bureau of
                    Indian Affairs was a busy place during the war. The Senate ratified more than twenty Indian
                    treaties, many of them land cession agreements which opened the West for mining and settlement. Two
                    of the most shocking massacres in American history occurred during the Lincoln administration: in 
                        Minnesota
                     the Santee Sioux rose up against encroaching whites and killed as many as eight hundred
                    in August, 1862; two years later 
                        Colorado
                     volunteers attacked a peaceful Cheyenne and Arapaho village at Sand Creek and
                    slaughtered some 450 Indian men, women, and children. Indians also fought in the Civil War for both
                    the North and the South, although the Confederacy enjoyed by far the greater Indian support. But
                    David A. Nichols does not dwell on such matters. As he states in his introduction, his focus
                    "is on Lincoln and his subordinates rather than the Indians themselves, on 
                        Washington
                     and its political intrigues rather than frontier scenes of Indian-white  confrontation. … It is a white man's perspective on
                    the main themes of the politics of Indian affairs, for which no apology is offered" (p. 2).
                    As a result, Nichols discusses the patronage system in the Indian department, which remained a sink
                    of iniquity during the Lincoln administration, and he explores the reform movement where Lincoln
                    probably would have accomplished much had he survived the war years. Even in this area, however,
                    Lincoln's incentive came primarily from the instigation of the tireless Henry Whipple, the
                    Episcopal bishop of 
                        Minnesota
                    .
            Nichols has done a commendable job in presenting his story in a clear, readable style, and he has
                    developed his theme as fully as possible. Ironically, his thoroughness is the primary weakness of
                    the book. Lincoln, in truth, exerted a minimal influence on Indian affairs during his presidency. He
                    left much of this responsibility to his subordinates. (When he did intervene, however, he
                    demonstrated courage and wisdom, as in commuting the death sentences of some three hundred Indians
                    convicted for their part in the Sioux uprising of 1862. Had he taken a more forceful interest in
                    Indian affairs, that tragedy might not have occurred.)
            Nichols did ignore one area of Indian policy where Lincoln broke new ground. When dealing with Indian
                    tribes, the federal government normally recognized tribal leaders with peace medals which symbolized
                    their authority and loyalty. The Lincoln administration also did this for most tribes except the
                    Pueblo Indians of 
                  Arizona and New Mexico
                who regarded canes as a symbol of
                    authority, a carryover of a tradition begun in 1620 by the king of 
                        Spain
                    . Lincoln wisely continued this tradition, and in 1863 he gave a cane to each of the
                    nineteen pueblo governors. To this day the canes are handed down in a line of succession that is now
                    350 years old.
            
               Smithsonian Institution, 
                            Washington
                        , B.C. Herman J. Viola
         
         
            
               Organized Medicine in the Progressive Era: The Move toward Monopoly. By James G.
                    Burrow. (
                        Baltimore
                    : The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1977. Pp. ix, 218. Appendixes, bibliographical
                    essay, notes, index. $12.95.)
            The Transactions of the Indiana State Medical Association published in April, 1904,
                    commences with the president's address entitled "The Organized Medical Profession
                    and its Relation to the Public Welfare." This title summarizes the content  of James G. Burrow's interesting and informative book. America
                    at the turn of the century had an overabundance of physicians. The training of most of them,
                    however, was not adequate to encompass the rapidly expanding volume of medical knowledge which
                    characterized the era, and the profession generally was in an economic bind. The growth of medical
                    knowledge during the late nineteenth century placed an insurmountable burden on the
                    nation's proprietary medical schools. Rising costs of medical education required that
                    schools open their doors to evermore inadequately prepared students in order to meet the costs of
                    operation. An ever-increasing number of poorly trained physicians were thereby turned loose on the
                    public each year, thus increasing the competition for the available patient supply. Preventive
                    medicine during this same period was reducing the incidence of illness and, hence, the number of
                    available patients. The net effect of this state of affairs was to lower the prestige of the
                    profession generally.
            This background for American medicine as it existed at the turn of the century is considered in
                    "A Medical Awakening," Section I of Burrow's book. The role of the
                    American Medical Association (AMA) in reforming medical education, its role in effecting laws
                    regulating medical education and the practice of medicine, and its role in public health reforms are
                    considered in Section II, entitled "Ferment and Reform." In the final section,
                    "Matters of Economics," the author covers the subject of contract practice and
                    social insurance in the medical profession and provides an excellent background for the
                    socioeconomic problems facing the profession today. Chapter 7, entitled "Doctors'
                    Dilemma: Combining Professional Welfare and Public Interest," compares the action of the
                    AMA in elevating and stabilizing the income of American physicians to that of the 
                        United States
                     Steel Corporation in raising the price of basic steel products. The action of the AMA
                    was not ruthless but was done with the conviction that the profession's own interests were
                    best served by providing the best possible service to the public. This motivating aspect of
                    organized medicine is seldom recognized.
            A tremendous amount of material has been compressed into this book. The references cited are almost
                    entirely from the medical literature. The author states in his bibliographical essay that his study
                    rests on exhaustive or substantial research into the transactions, journals, and other published
                    records of medical societies in every geographical part of the nation. Although Indiana is not one
                    of the states surveyed, 
                  Illinois, Michigan, Wisconsin
               , and 
                        Kentucky
                     are mentioned. The fact  that the author does not
                    use material from every state does not detract from the interest or accuracy of the book. He is
                    describing elements of a phenomenon that transpired on a national level, and he does not neglect any
                    section of the country. The reader having an interest in or knowledge of the development of public
                    health, medical education, regulation of the practice of medicine, or medical economics will find
                    this volume enormously interesting.
            
               
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                     Charles A. Bonsett, M.D.
         
         
            
               Six Who Protested: Radical Opposition to the First World War. By Frederick C.
                    Giffin. (
                        Port Washington
                    , N.Y.: Kennikat Press, 1977. Pp. 158. Notes, bibliography, index. $9.95.)
            In recent years several studies have focused on American opposition to war in the late nineteenth and
                    early twentieth centuries. Such studies include books by David S. Patterson, Thomas W. Ryley,
                    Charles DeBenedetti, and Charles Chatfield. One of the most recent additions to this literature is
                    Frederick C. Giffin's Six Who Protested, which discusses the antiwar
                    views and activities of a half-dozen nonconformists during World War I—Eugene V. Debs,
                    Morris Hillquit, Max Eastman, John Reed, Emma Goldman, and William D. Haywood. Giffin has provided a
                    useful introduction to antiwar sentiment during 1917 and 1918. Although Ray Ginger's Bending Cross (1949) remains perhaps the most absorbing treatment of
                    Debs' wartime activities, Six Who Protested offers a more detailed
                    account of the response to the Great War by these individuals than is found in Merle
                    Curti's Peace or War (1936), H. C. Peterson and Gilbert C.
                    Fite's Opponents of War (1957), or William Preston, Jr.'s Aliens and Dissenters (1963). And while Giffin is obviously sympathetic to the
                    individuals he treats, he is by no means blind to their shortcomings.
            Each of the dissenters discussed in Giffin's book experienced varying degrees of repression.
                    Hillquit was prevented by Secretary of State Robert Lansing from attending an international
                    socialist conference in Stockholm, Sweden, although there is no indication in this study that he was
                    ever indicted, convicted, or imprisoned for his views. Eastman was tried twice for violating the
                    Espionage Act but was never convicted as both trials ended in hung juries. Reed was indicted,
                    together with the editors of the Masses, under the Espionage Act but not
                    convicted, even though, Giffin notes, he may have perjured himself at the second Masses trial. Reed was also charged with  sedition in
                            
                  New York and Philadelphia
               . One case was dropped before coming to trial, and in
                    the other the jury failed to convict. Goldman was convicted of obstructing the selective service and
                    was given a two-year sentence. She served twenty months of that term and then, shortly after
                    release, was deported under the Alien Act of October, 1918, because of association with anarchism.
                    "Big Bill" Haywood received the severest sentence, twenty years of imprisonment
                    and a $10,000 fine. He was released on $30,000 bail pending a decision on a
                    new trial but jumped bail in early 1921 and fled to the Soviet Union where he died in 1928. Debs,
                    who Giffin contends taunted the government into placing himself—and the war—on
                    trial and who admitted obstructing the war effort, served thirty-two months of a ten-year sentence
                    before being pardoned by President Warren G. Harding.
            The major shortcoming of this study is that its focus is too narrow. While the work's
                    introductory pages do trace opposition to war throughout American history, a larger sense of the
                    context in which these individuals operated is lacking. The author might have made a greater effort
                    to compare the fate of these American dissenters with the treatment dealt their counterparts in the
                    other belligerent countries. Giffin does make some effort in this direction, arguing that the
                    treatment of Debs was far harsher than that given to "prominent dissenters in 
                        England
                    , most notably philosopher Bertrand Russell" (p. 46). Aside from the Russell
                    case, however, the author does not provide convincing evidence that war opponents were treated more
                    severely in the 
                        United States
                     than in 
                        England
                    . Knowledge of how civil liberties fared during these years in 
                        England
                    , as well as in 
                  France and Germany
               , is fragmentary, and any comparison with the 
                        United States
                     needs to be carefully qualified. While Giffin is correct in maintaining that civil
                    liberties were severely—and one might add at times viciously—repressed during
                    1917 and 1918, his study also might have made a clearer distinction between repression initiated at
                    the federal level and that at the state and local levels. Granted, no good, detailed account of the
                    Wilson administration and civil liberties exists, but repression at the state and local level
                    apparently was more severe.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Stephen Vaughn
         
         
         
            Communications∗
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To the Editor of the Indiana Magazine of History:
                        Many thanks to you and John Flanagan for reviewing my anthology The
                                        Indiana Experience and for saying "there is much here worth
                                    reading and rereading." I only wish that Mr. Flanagan had not made the
                                    following mistakes and misrepresentations:
                              1. The farce play he refers to: The Double Doctor, is
                                            NOT "by George Ade" but by George 
                                                Barr
                                             McCutcheon.
                              2. Far from being "naive," it does NOT "focus
                                            on mistaken identity" but is rather a parody of
                                            that convention! What it does focus on is certain suburbanites'
                                            superficialities. Although McCutcheon's Graustarkian romances
                                            remain naive, his hitherto unpublished plays are quite sophisticated, as my
                                            forthcoming collection of ten of them should make more obvious.
                              3. David Graham Phillips' The Worth of a Woman,
                                            with its Indiana setting, is one of the earliest feminist plays in modern
                                            times. After its production in 
                                                New York
                                             it elicited the author's assassination—not
                                            by a critic—but by a chauvinist fanatic. Even if that play were
                                            not timely (and many readers have said it is) to call it
                                            "dated" is as equivocal as putting that tag on any other
                                            historical first.
                              4. Another of Mr. Flanagan's equivocations: Cole
                                            Porter's songs are NOT "under the rubric of
                                            poetry." They are under the rubric of "Poetry and
                                            Songs," although such poets as William Blake and Robert Burns
                                            regarded the distinction as purely academic.
                              5. Brendan Gill's biographical essay on Cole Porter is NOT
                                            "a truncated section." It is rather the essay whole as it
                                            appeared originally in THE NEW YORKER. Later it was expanded as the opening
                                            section in the huge book Cole, the rest of that
                                            coffee-table artifact being devoted to his songs. (Mr. Flanagan may have
                                            been thinking of that book.)
                              6. Whether William Vaughan Moody was "the best poet that Indiana
                                            has produced" is a matter of opinion. The critic and poet Robert 
                                                Lowell
                                            , with whom I was privileged to collaborate on the Harbrace Modern Literature series, judged (when I consulted him)
                                            that "Moody, like Joaquin Miller, may deserve to be resurrected,
                                            but Woods, Wagoner, Appleman, and 
                                    
                                       ∗A11 letters to the editor are
                                                    printed verbatim. A communication will be published only if it
                                                    relates to an article or review that has appeared in the Indiana Magazine of History and only if, in the
                                                    editor's judgment, it serves a worthwhile scholarly
                                                    purpose. Authors of reviews and articles are provided an opportunity
                                                    to respond. The editor reserves the right to impose space
                                                    limitations on communications.
                                 
                                             Stefanile are your best poets from
                                            Indiana." 
                                                Lowell
                                            's wife, Elizabeth Hardwick, added
                                            "Don't leave out Jean Garrigue." If Mr. Flanagan
                                            is willing to transfer his epithet "dated" to
                                            Moody-as-poet, I will gladly concur. (The poetic prose in
                                            Moody's plays is another matter, and I intend to
                                            represent Moody as playwright in my Second Edition.)
                              7. Since my anthology was designed primarily for literature courses, such distinguished sociologists
                                            as Robert and Helen Lynd are outside its scope. However, my chief criterion
                                            for selection would exclude not only 
                                                
                                                    Middletown
                                                
                                             but also any other piece lacking aesthetic appeal. That rationale also
                                            prompted me to sort the pieces I did select under literary
                                                genres rather than socio-historical "themes." To
                                            students of literature, as Mr. Flanagan well knows, genre
                                            and mode (e.g., a satirical farce) signal meaning.
                           
                        
                        Still, I am grateful that Mr. Flanagan took the time to notice my book at all.
                        
                                    A. L. Lazarus
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To the Editor of the Indiana Magazine of History:
                        Thank you for sending me the copy of A.L. Lazarus's letter to you relative
                                    to my review of his book The Indiana Experience. I shall try to
                                    reply to his comments.
                        I must begin by admitting an error. For some reason I attributed the play
                                    "The Double Doctor," by George 
                                        Barr
                                     McCutcheon, to George Ade. All I can say is that some gremlin must have
                                    interfered with my typewriter keys. I apologize to Mr. Lazarus and to the shade of
                                    George Ade. But I still see no reason for changing the adjective naive and I still
                                    think that mistaken identity is the basic mechanism of the play. My feeling about
                                    both this play and the one by David Graham Phillips, "The Worth of a
                                    Woman", is that they take up too much space, which might have been better
                                    used for other selections.
                        Mr. Lazarus is of course privileged to include some of Cole Porter's songs
                                    in his section "Poetry and Songs." All I can say is that the words
                                    are trivial and without the music they add little to the artistic or literary value
                                    of the anthology in question.
                        I think it is immaterial just where the original essay on Cole Porter by Brendan Gill
                                    appeared since it is obviously material which the writer later incorporated in his
                                    biography of the song writer. More important is the fact that the essay deals with
                                    an Indiana composer and was written by somebody without any connection with the
                                    Hoosier state. Mr. Lazarus's anthology supposedly is a collection of
                                    writings by Indiana writers. 
                                    Brendan Gill does not belong here at all no matter how good his piece is.
                        I won't quarrel with Mr. Lazarus about William Vaughn Moody's
                                    artistic position. His middle name, by the way, is not spelled Vaughan, pace Mr.
                                    Lazarus. But Moody does appear in almost every history and anthology of American
                                    literature, and I can think of no Indiana poet who has received similar recognition.
                        Finally, Mr. Lazarus insists that his anthology was designed for literature courses
                                    so that he was obliged to omit all material of a more mundane or routine nature. My
                                    point here was that some of the writing of historians, scientists, and perhaps even
                                    sociologists can have as much aesthetic value as some of the second rate work that
                                    Mr. Lazarus does include. I have always had admiration for the little book by Logan
                                    Esarey called The Indiana Home and I wish it were better known.
                                    Surely Esarey's writings and probably writing by other Indiana historians
                                    deserve inclusion in a book entitled The Indiana Experience.
                                    Indiana has always been a writing state; the literary spectrum of the Hoosier
                                    commonwealth needs full representation to be truly satisfactory.
                        Thank you for this opportunity to explain my review of Mr. Lazarus's book.
                        
                                    John T. Flanagan
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
            Papers Requested
            "The Face of Battle: Visions of the Indiana Volunteer Experience" will be the
                    subject of the Indiana Historical Society's 1979 Military History Section Conference to be
                    held November 2–3 in conjunction with the Society's annual meeting in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The conference seeks contributors who will employ varied sources and methodologies to
                    describe and assess the behavior of Indiana volunteer citizens and units in any period. All papers
                    will be considered for publication in the conference Proceedings. One page
                    proposals for papers are solicited by April 10 and should be sent to: George W. Geib, Department of
                    History, 
                        Butler
                     University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46208.
         
         
         
            HOOSIER HISTORICAL CALENDAR
            
                    April 20-21, 1979
                
            A local history workshop for members of the Indiana Historical Society who reside in region 2 will be
                    held on April 20-21, 1979, at the Auburn-Cord-Duesenberg Museum in Auburn, Indiana. For further
                    information contact Thomas Krasean, Indiana Historical Society, 315 West Ohio Street, Indianapolis,
                    Indiana 46202.
            
                    May 11-13, 1979
                
            The 20th Spring History Workshop, sponsored by the Indiana State Library, the Indiana Historical
                    Bureau, and the Indiana Historical Society, will be held May 11-13, 1979, at the Canyon Inn in
                    McCormick's Creek State Park near Spencer, Indiana. Sessions on genealogy, archaeology, military
                    history, and projects of the junior historical society are currently scheduled. A tour of the Glen
                    A. Black Laboratory in Bloomington is also planned. Overnight reservations should be made directly
                    with the Canyon Inn. Further information can be obtained from Raymond L. Shoemaker, Indiana
                    HIstorical Society, 315 West Ohio Street, Indianapolis, indiana 46202.
            
                    June 15-16, 1979
                
            A local history workshop for members of the Indiana Historical Society who reside in region 3 will be
                    held on June 15-16, 1979, at the Tippecanoe County Historical Association in Lafayette, Indiana. For
                    further information contact Thomas Krasean, Indiana Historical Society, 315 West Ohio Street,
                    Indianapolis, Indiana 46202.
         
         
            Requests for Papers in Indiana History
            The Indiana Historical Society is calling for scholarly papers in Indiana or Midwestern history for
                    its Annual History Conference on November 2 and 3, 1979. Last year there were sessions in political,
                    economic, social, and military history with eight papers given by professional historians. The
                    society would like to do even more at the November, 1979, meeting. Any historian wishing to present
                    a paper at this meeting or to propose a session dealing with a midwestern history topic should
                    submit proposals to the Indiana Historical Society before June 15, 1979. The address is: Indiana
                    Historical Society, 315 West Ohio Street, Indianapolis, Indiana 46202.
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
