
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 076, Issue 2, pages 85-160. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:076+issue:2+year:1980&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Federal Writers' Project Files for Indiana
            Robert K. O'Neill⋆
            
            The Federal Writers' Project (FWP) was established in July, 1935, as one of four arts
                    projects sponsored by the Works Progress Administration (WPA).1 Designed to put
                    unemployed writers to work in some socially useful capacity, FWP was never one of the New
                    Deal's most popular programs. Critics of Franklin D. Roosevelt's
                    Depression-oriented programs delivered some of their most stinging attacks against it. Even many who
                    generally supported New Deal legislation expressed serious reservations about subsidizing writers at
                    government expense. Some believed that the integrity and independence of the profession might be
                    compromised; others considered the political views of most writers suspect and feared that the
                    government would be providing writers an opportunity at taxpayer expense to disseminate radical
                    political propaganda; and still others simply could not understand the plight of the unemployed
                    writer. To the last group, Harry Hopkins, WPA administrator and Roosevelt confidant, acidly replied:
                    "Hell, they've got to eat just like other people."2
                    But no reply, however colorful, could easily erase the suspicions expressed by the first two groups.
            The term "writer" was interpreted broadly to include virtually anyone who at some
                    time in his or her life had earned money by writing. Researchers thus qualified for the program
                    along with creative writers and journalists. Indeed, researchers made up the bulk of those employed
                    as writers.3 Nevertheless, 
                  
                     ⋆ Robert K. O'Neill is head of the Department of
                            Rare Books and Special Collections, Cunningham Memorial Library, Indiana State University, 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
                  
                     1 The other projects were Art, Music, and Theater. Collectively, the
                            four projects were officially known as Federal One. The Historical Records Project was added
                            later.
                  
                     2 Quoted in Jerre Mangione, The Dream and the Deal: The
                                Federal Writers' Project, 1935-1943 (
                                Boston
                            , 1972), 4.
                  
                     3 Bernard De Voto, "The Writers' Project,"
                                Harper's Magazine, CLXXXIV (January, 1942), 221.
               
                    
                    
                  
                            LIARS' BENCH, NASHVILLE, BROWN COUNTY, INDIANA
                        
                  Courtesy of author.
                a considerable number of talented and experienced writers were associated with the
                    project, including Conrad Aiken, Nelson Algren, Saul Bellow, Edward Dahlberg, Vincent McHugh, Claude
                    McKay, Studs Terkel, and Richard Wright. On the average, the project employed some 5,000 persons
                    annually, reaching a peak of 6,500 in 1936.4
            
            Since one of the chief aims of FWP was to employ writers in some socially useful enterprise, project
                    administrators decided early on that creative works, such as novels, plays, and poetry, would not be
                    subsidized. The hours devoted to FWP work were generally short and flexible, however, leaving
                    writers free time to devote to writing fiction and poetry for their own purposes. And
                    project-sponsored work itself often allowed for a certain degree of creativity.5
            
            What constituted socially useful projects proved a bit more difficult to decide than what did not,
                    but eventually the idea for the American Guide Series and related projects won acceptance. 
                  
                            4
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     5 Katherine Kellock, "The WPA Writers: Portraitists of the 
                                United States
                            ," American Scholar, IX (Autumn, 1940),
                        477-78.
               
                     FWP first planned the guide series as a five-volume work, each
                    volume covering a particular region of the country. A single-volume American guide was to follow.
                    But this plan proved administratively unfeasible and was abandoned in favor of individual state
                    guidebooks. The project also planned guidebooks for Alaska, 
                        Puerto Rico
                    , certain key cities, some counties and towns, and even a few famous highways.6 The decision to publish individual state guides was popular in Indiana, for
                    many Hoosiers lamented that much of the valuable material being gathered by FWP in Indiana would not
                    reach the public because of the limited space to be alloted to each state in the regional guide.7
            
            
               Indiana: A Guide to the Hoosier State was the collective product of several hundred
                    people over a period of six years. Work began in the summer of 1935 under the supervision of Ross F.
                    Lockridge, a noted historian of Indiana. Lockridge resigned in August, 1937, and was succeeded by
                    Gordon F. Briggs, a former journalist and free-lance writer.8 Briggs served as
                    state supervisor until the close of the Writers' Project in early 1943. At its peak, the
                    Indiana project employed some 150 people, with at least one writer representing each of the
                    state's ninety-two counties. The more populated counties were represented by as many as
                    eight to ten writers.9
            
            Despite the large pool of unemployed writers in Indiana, the project sometimes encountered
                    recruitment difficulties. The most serious of these was the requirement that writers be on relief to
                    qualify for the project. Many writers either could not or would not meet this requirement. In some
                    of the smaller, more sparsely populated counties the project was unable to find even a single
                    experienced writer on relief. In such cases the central office in 
                        Indianapolis
                     had to petition 
                        Washington
                     to waive the relief condition.10
            
            In addition to the central office in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the Indiana project operated five district offices to provide closer supervisory
                    assistance to writers in the field. For the most part, however, writers worked independently,
                    gathering information on assinged 
                  
                     6 Mangione, The Dream and the Deal, 47. See also the
                            FWP manual, "Writers' Projects of the Works Progress
                            Administration," (
                                Washington
                            , n.d.). A copy of this manual is in Administrative Folder, WPA
                            Writers' Project Files for Indiana (Indiana State University Library, 
                                Terre Haute
                            ).
                  
                     7
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, May 2, 1936.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., August 3, 1937.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., January 30, 1936.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., August 3, 1937.
               
                     topics and composing reports for submission to the central
                    office. As the reports arrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     they were carefully edited and checked for accuracy. A large pool of consultants,
                    mostly academicians, aided editor and writer alike. The edited reports were forwarded to 
                        Washington
                     to be reviewed by the editorial staff at FWP headquarters.
            The quality of the reports submitted by Indiana writers varied considerably. In general, they were
                    little better than mediocre. Although some were models of scholarly research and lucid writing,
                    these were the exceptions. Good editing was chiefly responsible for the high quality of the finished
                    product, Indiana: A Guide to the Hoosier State.
            
            To maintain uniformity among the guides, the FWP office in 
                        Washington
                     prescribed a basic arrangement and makeup and provided close editorial supervision. All
                    guides were required to conform to the following formula:
                        The geological background, natural setting and natural resources, the commercial, industrial,
                            agricultural, religious, and educational development of the State will be described; its
                            history from the earliest times to the present will be related; the story of the founding
                            and growth of all principal cities and towns will be told; racial groups, points of
                            interest, and noted personalities who have influenced the development of the State will be
                            discussed; folklore and folkways, architecture, the labor situation, and all other pertinent
                            facts, as well as the contemporary scene of the State, will be reviewed. The book will
                            contain a chronological history of the State from the earliest times to the present, as well
                            as a comprehensive bibliography. Tours describing all principal highways on a mile-by-mile
                            basis will be included. A State map, a tour key map, and maps of all cities which are
                            separately treated, will be included.11
                  
                    Nevertheless, 
                        Washington
                     left to individual projects sufficient freedom to interpret and articulate the
                    information collected so that, while similar in organization and makeup, each guide was a distinct
                    entity with its own special character.
            Work on the Indiana guide progressed slowly, and the public grew increasingly impatient as a result.
                    Charges of boondoggling were commonplace. Whereas a WPA-sponsored construction project generally
                    yielded some immediate and tangible evidence that taxpayers were getting something for their money,
                    the Writers' Project did not. Without a published guide to show for its labors, the
                    Writers' Project in Indiana was in a vulnerable position. By the summer of 1937, its staff,
                    already down to eighty-five, was further cut back to sixty.12
            
            
               
                  11 Article 7 of the WPA Writers' Program's application
                        for permission to publish Indiana: A Guide to the Hoosier State, Sponsor
                        Folder, WPA Writers' Project Files for Indiana.
               
                  12
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News, June 14, 21, 1937.
            
            
            The controversy surrounding the publication that same summer of the 
                        Massachusetts
                     guide did little to improve matters. The 
                        Massachusetts
                     guide, the third in the series to be published, clearly reflected the liberal and
                    pro-labor sympathies of its authors. It dealt with a number of controversial issues, sometimes to
                    the exclusion of what many prominent Bay Staters considered to be more suitable topics for a
                    tax-supported guide ostensibly intended to promote the best interests of the commonwealth. For
                    example, the guide devoted forty-one lines to the Sacco-Vanzetti case but not a single line to the 
                        Boston
                     Tea Party. An outraged Governor Charles F. Hurley demanded that those responsible for
                    besmirching the honor of 
                        Massachusetts
                     be fired. Both 
                        United States
                     senators from 
                        Massachusetts
                     called for investigations, while other prominent political leaders advocated strict
                    censorship or outright suppression of future printings. At least one suggested that the guide be
                        burned.13
            
            Reaction in Indiana to this controversy was swift and predictable. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News charged that the authors of the 
                        Massachusetts
                     guide had distorted the original purpose of the guidebook to propogate their radical
                    political ideas. The News recommended that the Indiana guide be thoroughly
                    scrutinized and edited by responsible citizens before it be allowed to go to press. "Now is
                    the time," declared the News, "to determine whether the project
                    is what it is supposed to be or is tainted with radical political propaganda."14
            
            The 
                        Washington
                     office of FWP, troubled by the political and censorship implications of the 
                        Massachusetts
                     guide controversy, advised all states to exercise additional care in curbing what might
                    be construed as controversial material.15 Some writers objected to this form of
                    self-imposed censorship, but most seem to have accepted it as preferable to having censorship
                    imposed from without. This action substantially defused the censorship issue, and no subsequent
                    state guide publication stirred up quite so much controversy.
            But FWP's troubles were far from over. By the spring, 1939, the political and economic
                    climate in America had changed, and the Roosevelt administration decided to deemphasize its
                    Depression-oriented programs. In April, the President submitted to Congress a reorganization plan
                    which deprived the Works Progress Administration of its independent 
                  
                     13 Monty Noam Penkower, The Federal Writers'
                                Project: A Study in Government Patronage of the Arts (
                                Urbana
                            , 111., 1977), 101-107.
                  
                     14
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, August 21, 1937.
                  
                     15 Penkower, The Federal Writers' Project,
                            108-109.
               
                     status and placed it under the jurisdiction of the Federal Works
                    Administration. Under this new arrangement the Works Progress Administration was renamed the Works
                    Projects Administration. The arts projects were among the first casualties of the
                    administration's new orientation. Hopkins' successor as head of WPA, Colonel
                    Francis Harrington, regarded the four arts programs as a nuisance and believed that WPA could be
                    operated more efficiently without them. Congress shared this conviction. Toward the end of June it
                    passed the Emergency Relief Act which abolished the Theater Project altogether and discontinued
                    federal sponsorship of the remaining programs—writers', music, art, and
                    historical records. Congress did agree, however, to permit these surviving programs to continue
                    under state sponsorship provided that sponsors could be found for them by September 30. Sponsors
                    were required to contribute at least 25 percent of the total cost of each program. Despite the
                    shortage of time, the Writers' Project was able to line up sponsors in every state but 
                        Idaho
                     and 
                        North Dakota
                    , and those two exceptions had already published their guides.16
            
            In Indiana, the Department of Public Relations at Indiana State Teachers College, 
                        Terre Haute
                     (now Indiana State University), became the official statewide sponsor of the Indiana
                    Writers' Project. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     office continued to operate much as it did under federal sponsorship, providing
                    administrative, editorial, and consultative services. The new sponsor assumed certain
                    administrative, advisory, and editorial functions, but it concentrated its efforts on making
                    publication arrangements for the guide, preparing new project proposals, and improving the image of
                    the writers' program.
            The most immediate concern of the new sponsor was, of course, the publication of the Indiana guide.
                    The Department of Public Relations at Indiana State inherited a nearly complete manuscript and
                    immediately began a search for a publisher. On April 11, 1940, John Sembower, director of public
                    relations at Indiana State Teachers College, contracted with 
                        Oxford
                     University Press for the publication rights to the Indiana guide.17
                    The following month, Sembower formally petitioned the WPA Writers' Project to publish Indiana: A Guide to the Hoosier State at a retail cost per copy of
                        $2.75.18 The petition was quickly approved, but the guide did not
                    appear in print until September, 1941.
            
               
                  16 Mangione, The Dream and the Deal, 329-30.
               
                  17 Sponsor Folder, WPA Writers' Project Files for Indiana.
               
                        18
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            
               Indiana: A Guide to the Hoosier State, as Gordon Briggs stated in his preface,
                    "goes beyond the usual limits of a guidebook and portrays Indiana in terms of its people
                    and their background, its points of interest, natural setting and resources, and its social and
                    economic development."19 In format and organization, the guide is
                    similar to other state guides, as required by the WPA Writers' Project. The volume is
                    highly readable, informative, and interesting. Though now dated in many respects, it nevertheless
                    contains a wealth of interesting and still useful material on Indiana. 
                        Somerset
                     Publishers reprinted the guide in 1973 and copies are therefore readily available.
                    Copies of the original printing by 
                        Oxford
                     University Press turn up occasionally on the shelves of used book stores and in the
                    catalogs of antiquarian book dealers, but these are regarded as prized collectors items and in good
                    condition cost considerably more than the original price of $2.75.
            The Indiana guide was not the only project in the state undertaken by the Writers' Project.
                    In 1937 the Indiana project published a small pamphlet entitled Hoosier Tall
                    Stories, a collection of thirty-seven of the most popular and time-honored yarns or tales. Most
                    supposedly had their origin at the "liar's" or "community
                    bench," a popular spot in many Indiana towns where Hoosiers gathered to swap yarns.
                    According to the pamphlet, the most frequently repeated of these tall stories was "Drive
                        on!":
                        Jeff Dawson was said to be the laziest man in 
                                Fountain
                             or any other county. His neighbors labored with him on behalf of his family,
                            hard up because he was so lazy, but appeals were of no use. Finally the citizens told him in
                            so many words that there was no need of a dead man walking around on top the ground and he
                            could take his choice of getting down to work or being buried alive. He chose to be buried.
                        On the way to the cemetery, with Jeff in a coffin on the wagon, they met a man who inquired
                            the reason for such unusual doings, since the "corpse" was calmly puffing
                            a corncob pipe. When it was explained to him, he offered to help Jeff get a start in life by
                            giving him a bushel of corn. Jeff pondered this a moment and finally rose up to ask
                            "Is the corn shelled?" "Why, no!" replied the Good
                            Samaritan in astonishment. Jeff resignedly lay back again in the coffin. "Drive on,
                            boys" said he, "drive on!"20
                  
                    The Indiana Writers' Project also compiled one regional guide, Indiana: the Calumet Region Historical Guide. It was published in 1939, while the program
                    was still under federal sponsorship. The Calumet guide is 271 pages in length and follows roughly
                        
                  
                     19
                            Indiana: A Guide to the Hoosier State (
                                New York
                            , 1941), vii.
                  
                     20
                            Hoosier Tall Stories (1937), 24.
               
                     the outline established for state guides. It is replete with
                    interesting facts about the history, economy, and people of the Calumet region, embracing the cities
                    of Whiting, 
                        Hammond
                    , East 
                        Chicago
                    , and Gary. Perhaps the guide's most attractive feature to the present-day
                    reader is its numerous illustrations and maps. Like copies of the original printings of Indiana: A Guide to the Hoosier State and Hoosier Tall Stories, copies
                    of the Calumet guide are relatively scarce in the market place.
            Shortly after the Department of Public Relations at Indiana State Teachers College assumed
                    sponsorship of the Writers' Project in Indiana, it began compiling and furnishing to
                    approximately one hundred Indiana newspapers a free weekly column entitled "It Happened in
                    Indiana." These columns dealt with "little-known sidelights on Indiana history,
                    humorous happenings in the past, bits of interesting folklore, and other miscellany of an
                    interesting or unusual nature."21 The files of the Writers'
                    Project provided material for columns. "It Happened in Indiana" immediately became
                    a favorite feature in Hoosier newspapers and ran for more than two years. It doubtless gave the
                    Writers' Project increased visibility and did much to improve its image among Hoosiers.
            During the winter of 1939-1940 sponsors at Indiana State Teachers College proposed several additional
                    projects. These included county histories, an Indiana fact book, sociological studies, and a
                    pictorial guide to Indiana. The most ambitious was the series of county histories, to include
                    twenty-four abridged histories and guides patterned after the state guide. The files of the
                    Writers' Project housed at Indiana State University contain no fewer than nineteen county
                    history manuscripts at various stages of completion, the largest being the 600 page history of 
                        Delaware County
                    . The sociological studies were to focus on the cities of 
                        Lafayette
                     and 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Regrettably, little came of these proposals. The Indiana guide occupied the
                    project's main attention until its publication in September, 1941. Shortly afterwards, the 
                        United States
                     entered World War II, and the fate of the Writers' Project was all but sealed
                    as national defense took precedence over all other programs.
            Sembower saw the difficulties ahead for the Writers' Project as a result of Pearl Harbor,
                    and he tried desperately to rescue some if not all of the program from being discontinued. In early
                    1942 he wrote to Mildred Schmitt, WPA state director 
                  
                     21 Proposal request for Writers' Project activity entitled
                            "It Happened in Indiana," Sponsor Folder, WPA Writers' Project
                            files for Indiana.
               
                     for Community Service Projects, of the "storm
                    warnings" appearing in connection with many of the projects. Sembower emphasized that
                    certain of the projects, especially the county histories, might help national defense efforts by
                    improving general morale. He also appealed for the projects on humanitarian grounds. Noting that 90
                    percent of the sixty-five persons still employed on the Writers' Project were elderly or
                    physically-handicapped persons who would be unable to fit into defense labor, he expressed concern
                    for what might become of them if the project were discontinued.22
            
            Schmitt shared Sembower's concerns. Only the day before Sembower had written to her, she
                    sent off a lengthy letter to 
                        Washington
                     proposing new publications to be undertaken by the Indiana Writers' Project.
                    The majority of these were geared to the defense effort, such as a "Weekly Civilian Defense
                    Information Service," to be supplied by the sponsor to 300 Indiana newspapers, or
                    "brief scripts prepared for grammar schools showing the efforts made by the American people
                    to win previous wars." Another proposal called for a "Recreational Guide to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and central Indiana for soldiers, naval cadets and other members of the armed
                        forces."23 The 
                        Washington
                     office of the WPA Writers' Project reacted favorably to most of these
                        proposals.24 But there was little even the central office could do for WPA
                    itself was nearing its end. Always regarded in 
                        Washington
                     as a stop-gap program, WPA by 1942 was but a mere shadow of what it had once been.
                    Economic recovery after the outbreak of World War II assured the demise of WPA. By gearing itself
                    almost exclusively to the defense effort, WPA merely postponed the inevitable. The entire WPA was
                    liquidated on June 30, 1943, bringing an end to an epic era in federal support of the arts.25
            
            In early 1942 Schmitt also proposed that Indiana State Teachers College at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , as statewide sponsor of the Indiana Writers' Project, be designated
                    "as the agency for possible housing of the Writers' Project files." 
                        Washington
                     promptly approved this proposal,26 and when the Indiana
                    Writers' Project was discontinued, the files in 
                        Indianapolis
                     were delivered to 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Housed in the old library at Indiana State, the files apparently remained undisturbed
                    and unnoticed 
                  
                     22 John Sembower to Mildred Schmidt [sic], January 8, 1942, ibid.
                  
                  
                     23 Schmitt to Florence Kerr, January 7, 1942, ibid.
                  
                  
                     24 Walter M. Kilinger to John K. Jennings, January 13, 1942, ibid.
                  
                  
                     25 Penkower, The Federal Writers' Project,
                            227-37.
                  
                     26 Kiplinger to Jennings, January 13, 1942; Kerr to Jennings, n.d.,
                            Sponsor Folder, WPA Writers' Project Files for Indiana.
               
                     for more than a decade. In 1954, Stith Thompson, director of the
                    Folklore Institute at Indiana University and a former consultant to the Writers' Project,
                    received permission from Raleigh Holmstedt, president of Indiana State Teachers College, to remove
                    the files on folklore to Indiana University on extended loan.27 Some three years
                    later, Donald Scheick, professor of history at Indiana State, fortuitously came upon the remaining
                    papers in their original wood and cardboard file cabinets while poking around in one of the
                    library's storage areas. The cabinets were in terrible disrepair and covered with dust and
                    ceiling plaster. Scheick make some inquiries about the papers, but no one seemed to know much if
                    anything about their provenance. Fearing that a valuable collection of source materials on Indiana
                    history might continue to go unused or possibly even be discarded, Scheick asked for and was granted
                    permission to remove the papers to his office. Both he and Professor Herbert Rissler subsequently
                    made good use of the files in their classes on Indiana history.28
            
            When Indiana State University unveiled plans for a new library in 1970, all parties agreed that the
                    Writers' Project files should be housed there. Indiana University returned the folklore
                    materials, and the whole collection is now housed in the archives section of the Department of Rare
                    Books and Special Collections of the Cunningham Memorial Library at Indiana State University. To
                    facilitate use, the materials have been arranged according to county, with separate files for
                    administrative papers. Materials in each county folder have been alphabetized, and an inventory is
                    in preparation. Because much of the paper is in poor condition the entire collection has been
                    microfilmed. And plans are being made to encapsulate in Mylar (a polyester film) the more important
                    papers to enhance their life and usability.29
            
            The Writers' Project files constitute a rich and largely unused source of valuable material
                    on Indiana. The files occupy nineteen file drawers and measure approximately twenty-four linear feet
                    in length. Only a small fraction of this material 
                  
                     27 Earl Tannenbaum to Richard Dorson, January 7, February 1, 1971,
                            Administrative Folder, ibid.
                  
                  
                     28 Interview with Donald Scheick, Indiana State University, July 17,
                            1978.
                  
                     29 For the time being, there are no plans to make microfilm copies of
                            the collection available outside the Library. Limited photocopying of the materials may be
                            done with the approval of the Head of the Department of Rare Books and Special Collections.
                            Understandably, the condition of the material to be copied will be the main factor to be
                            considered in making a decision to grant or to deny a photocopying request. But every
                            reasonable effort will be made to assist patrons who wish to use the materials.
               
                     found its way into print. Much of this unpublished material was
                    gathered for the county history project and several other less ambitious projects. Most of the files
                    contain information far in excess of what was required for the guide, including gazetteers, photos,
                    newspaper clippings, maps, and graphs. As expected, this information does reflect the major
                    categories incorporated in the state guide, such as history, culture, traditions, industry,
                    education, agriculture, geography, and architecture.
            The size and scope of each file varies widely from county to county, but there is generally a direct
                    correlation between the size of a county's population and the size of its file. The files
                    for Allen, Lake, 
                  La Porte, St.
                            Joseph, Marion, Vanderburgh
               , and Vigo counties all exceed six inches in thickness while
                    those of 
                        Benton
                    , Jackson, Clinton, 
                        Pike
                    , and Scott are all less than three inches in thickness. But a county's
                    population is not always an accurate indicator of the size of its file. For example, the file for 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     is smaller than expected while that for 
                        Crawford County
                     is larger. The file for 
                        Knox County
                    , in which 
                        Vincennes
                     is located, is larger than the county's population would suggest but
                    understandable because of its special place in eighteenth-century Indiana history. The number of
                    writers assigned to a county at any one time depended in large measure on the size of the county. In
                    the early stages of the project as many as ten writers were working at the same time in 
                        Marion County
                    . What is surprising is that the file for 
                        Marion County
                     is not larger than it is. Some writers, of course, were more prolific than others. Or,
                    what may also be true is that some writers, or their supervisors, were more selective in what was
                    submitted to the central or regional offices. The degree of supervision seems not only to have
                    affected the amount of material submitted but also the type of material. In many parts of the state
                    supervision seems to have been minimal and writers were allowed considerable latitude both in the
                    choice of and approach to assignments. This freedom accounts in some part, perhaps in large part,
                    for the great diversity of material found in the files. While some writers emphasized folklore or
                    history, others emphasized archaeology or architecture. What is clear from even a hasty perusal of
                    the files is a lack of balance in the type of materials found in the folders. It is therefore
                    difficult to make generalizations about what is to be found in the files. What is there is a
                    potpourri, albeit a fascinating potpourri.
            The Writers' Project files vary in quality as much as in size and type. Few writers were
                    trained professionally as researchers  or interviewers. And their
                    lack of training is often reflected in the quality of their reports. Nevertheless, there is little
                    in the files that is not of some merit. And there is much deserving of careful study. The county
                    histories are of particular interest. The nearly 300-page manuscript entitled "The Creole
                    (French) Pioneers at Old Post 
                        Vincennes
                    " is perhaps the best of several impressive special studies found in the files.
                    With sound editing, it would be worthy of publication. There are many photographs, charts, maps, and
                    other miscellaneous materials that may not exist anywhere else. Information collected from
                    interviews may be among the most important material to be found in the files. True, interviewers
                    were seldom schooled in the techniques of conducting interviews or in the disciplines of history or
                    folklore, but much of the information they gathered might otherwise have died with the persons whom
                    they interviewed. In brief, the files provide a wealth of material to attract the interest of
                    scholars from a variety of disciplines or simply the curious who wish to explore in more depth
                    Indiana's past.
         
         
         
            The Federal Writers' Project Revisited: The Indiana Historical Society's New
                    Guide to the State of Indiana
            
                    Errol 
                            Wayne
                         Stevens
                    ⋆
                
            The Indiana Historical Society, in August, 1978, launched a four-year project to prepare a guidebook
                    to the state of Indiana. In so doing, the society has sought to revive the spirit of the Federal
                    Writers' Project volume, Indiana: A Guide to the Hoosier State, published
                    in 1941. The guide, which has since become a classic in the eyes of many Hoosiers, was one volume in
                    a larger work known as the American Guide Series. The series included a guide to each state as well
                    as guides to a number of individual cities. The Indiana volume was divided into three sections
                    which, taken together, constitute a general introduction to the state's history and
                    culture. The first section consists of a series of essays on the natural setting, archaeology,
                    agriculture, education, newspapers, arts and crafts, and so on. The second section includes short
                    histories and descriptions of fourteen Indiana cities and towns. The final section—nearly
                    half of the book—consists of twenty automobile tours which crisscross the entire state.
            The Federal Writers' Project was under the general administrative direction of the Works
                    Projects Administration. Its purpose was to create jobs for writers thrown out of work by the
                    Depression of the 1930s. One of the four federal arts projects—there were also programs
                    in art, music, and theater—the Writers' Project attempted to put writers to work
                    doing what they presumably did best—writing. The headquarters of the Indiana project,
                    which operated in the state from 1936 to 1942, was in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . There were ten to twenty workers assigned to this office. In addition, there was an
                    average of about eighty field workers in various locations around the state. At one point, the
                    number of people employed by the 
                  
                     ⋆ Errol 
                                Wayne
                             Stevens is director of the Indiana Guide Project, Indiana Historical
                        Society.
               
                     project reached 150. These workers compiled information on local
                    history and then sent it to the state office where editors and writers transformed the material into
                    publishable copy. Most of the field workers were recruited from the relief rolls, but the key
                    personnel in the central office were not on relief.1
            
            Although the guide was its most outstanding accomplishment, the Indiana Writers' Project
                    produced other publications. One was "It Happened in Indiana," a series of
                    releases on Indiana history distributed to newspapers around the state. Another was Hoosier Tall Stories, a mimeographed booklet of tales from the "liars
                    bench." The project also produced a 240 page historical guide to the Calumet region. In
                    addition to these works, the project prepared a large number of manuscripts that never saw
                    publication, including an unfinished series of county histories for use in public schools, histories
                    of various Indiana cities, monographs on Indiana history, and written works on a wide range of other
                        subjects.2
            
            The Indiana guide was well-received when it was first published. The 
                        New York
                    
                    Herald Tribune thought that it ranked among the best of the volumes in the
                    American Guide Series, and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Times called it an "impressive piece of work."3 The book has stood up well over the years. Despite the fact that the volume is nearly
                    forty-years old and has never been revised, it is still widely used. The reasons for this
                    book's lasting popularity are its readable style and its frequent use of interesting
                    anecdotal material.
            Although the Indiana guide avoided the controversy that greeted the publication of some of the other
                    state guides, it did not completely escape criticism. Some have considered it superficial in its
                    treatment of the state's history. A more immediate criticism came from the pen of a
                    reviewer for the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    Tribune who thought that the book had been a waste of government money because of
                    the numerous errors in the section on 
                        South Bend
                    . Although the newspaper was correct in pointing out these mistakes, they were too minor
                    to detract seriously from the value of the guide. More than anything else, the tone 
                  
                     1 "Final State Reports, Writers' Project:
                            Indiana," Records of the Works Projects Administration, RG 69 (National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
                  
                     2
                            Ibid.; Indiana Writers' Project, The Calumet Region
                                Historical Guide (Gary, 1939). As the preceding article by Robert K.
                            O'Neill makes clear, most of the unpublished material prepared by Indiana
                            Writers' Project workers is available for use by qualified researchers at the
                            Cunningham Memorial Library, Indiana State University, 
                                Terre Haute
                            .
                  
                     3
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Herald Tribune, April 12, 1942; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Times, September 30, 1941.
               
                     of the article reflects the bruised pride of a civic booster who
                    felt that 
                        South Bend
                     deserved more careful attention. One of the most frequently cited mistakes was the
                    guide's carelessness in calling a number of streets boulevards when they actually should
                    have been designated as streets, or vice versa.4
            
            Given the problems that had to be overcome, it is remarkable that the Indiana guide (or most of the
                    volumes in the American Guide Series for that matter) is of such high quality. The Federal
                    Writers' Project was a relief program designed to create work for unemployed writers. At
                    the same time, the project was charged with the responsibility of putting together a creditable
                    product which would assure the taxpayers that their money was well spent. These goals were difficult
                    to reconcile because few Americans on the relief rolls had actually earned their livings as writers.
                    "Many of the field workers were not writers at all," indicated the final report of
                    the Writers' Project, "but merely persons who wanted to become writers or who
                    fancied themselves authors." The abilities of these workers varied considerably. Members of
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     office felt that the work could have been done with a smaller, more capable staff, an
                    impossibility, of course, in view of the project's purpose to employ as many people as the
                    law permitted.5
            
            Some observers doubted that any government-sponsored project could produce a guidebook that would be
                    worth reading. One skeptic, speaking of a proposed national guidebook, phrased it this way:
                    "If the Squeedunks and Linoleumvilles of the 
                        United States
                     are omitted from the Guidebook, or truthfully described as being of small interest,
                    they will raise hell enough to ripple all the way to 
                        Washington
                    …. "6 Fortunately, the Indiana guide avoided the
                    pitfall of becoming a provincial or booster-like document. The book does not attempt to raise the
                    ordinary to the level of the extraordinary and, to its credit, leaves the obscure where it
                    belongs—in obscurity.
            The Indiana project suffered from additional problems that did not grow out of the nature of the
                    project itself, but, at times, threatened publication of the guide. The project's first
                    state supervisor, Ross F. Lockridge, allowed the project to slip into the doldrums. According to one
                    member of his staff, Lockridge 
                  
                     4 Monty Noam Penkower, The Federal Writers'
                                Project: A Study in Government Patronage of the Arts (
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1977), 101-107; 
                                South Bend
                            
                            Tribune, October 16, 1941. The 
                                Elkhart
                            
                            Truth was also critical of the guide. 
                                Elkhart
                            
                            Truth, September 30, 1941.
                  
                     5 "Final State Reports, Writers' Project:
                            Indiana."
                  
                     6 Quoted in Penkower, The Federal Writers'
                                Project, 33-34.
               
                     believed that the project's primary goal was to keep
                    people on the relief rolls. He was not much concerned that the project did not move very swiftly
                    toward its goal of producing a state guidebook. This situation created no small amount of
                    frustration among staff members who despaired of ever seeing their work appear in print. Lockridge
                    also spent a great deal of time out of the office, involved in extracurricular activities that had
                    nothing to do with the guide. He resigned, under pressure, in July, 1937, and the work was completed
                    under the more capable guidance of his successor, Gordon F. Briggs.7
            
            Commercial presses published all manuscripts prepared by the Federal Writers' Project, and
                    publication had to be sponsored by an individual or organization that could subsidize some of the
                    costs of publication. The Indiana office experienced some difficulty in finding a sponsor. After
                    lengthy negotiations, Briggs first convinced state Governor M. Clifford Townsend to sponsor the
                    book. "As you know," Briggs reported to 
                        Washington
                    , "Indiana is a labyrinth of political influences, and getting this sponsorship
                    contract signed was more difficult than it might appear on the surface." A few months
                    later, the governor, on the advice of the attorney general, reversed himself and declined to serve
                    as sponsor on the grounds that a state subsidy to a private publishing house was illegal. A
                    subsequent attempt to push a bill through the legislature authorizing such sponsorship also failed.
                    Briggs ultimately persuaded Indiana State Teachers College, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , now Indiana State University, to serve as sponsor.8
            
            The Indiana Historical Society's current project has been spared many of the problems that
                    accompanied the writing and publication of the federal volume. Progress and the passing of time have
                    made the need for a new state guide manifest. The 1941 guide, especially the tour section, is badly
                    out-of-date. Additionally, in recent years there has been a revival of interest in local history and
                    folklore that parallels a similar concern of the 1930s. The growing interest in genealogy, the
                    fascination with restoring old buildings and even entire neighborhoods, the founding of local
                    historical societies, museums, and other historical 
                  
                     7 Interview with Rebecca E. Pitts, July 30, 1979; Henry G. Alsberg to 
                                Wayne
                             Coy, September 2, 9, 1936, Administrative Correspondence, Records of the
                            Federal Writers' Project Concerning Indiana, Records of the Works Projects
                            Administration, RG 69 (National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.); Penkower, Federal Writers' Project, 43.
                  
                     8 Gordon F. Briggs to Alsberg, February 3, 1938, September 16, 1938,
                            John T. Frederick to Briggs, March 8, 1939, Editorial Correspondence, Records of the Federal
                            Writers' Project Concerning Indiana.
               
                     organizations provide graphic illustration of the new interest.
                    A new guide to the state is an appropriate response to this popular movement. Economic factors also
                    will make a new guide attractive to Hoosiers. The dramatic increase in the price of gasoline will
                    have an important impact on the patterns of travel. Most families, even if gasoline is available,
                    will be unable to afford the long-distance vacations that they have been accustomed to taking in the
                    past. Hoosiers are likely to look with renewed interest at the possibilities of touring nearer home.
                    The Indiana Historical Society hopes to prepare a guide which will serve their needs.
            The new Indiana guide will be more than a revision or an imitation of the 1941 volume. The
                    project's staff will research and write an entirely new book designed to meet the needs of
                    Hoosiers during the 1980s. Changes have taken place in the state since the early 1940s that require
                    corresponding changes in the format of the guide. The first such change will be that the topical
                    essays at the beginning of the old guide will be replaced by a narrative history. Only one of the
                    chapters in the original Indiana was entitled "History," but the
                    authors construed "history" very narrowly to mean political and military history.
                    In fact, most of the material in the first section was actually historical in character, and it is
                    therefore feasible to rearrange it into a general narrative.
            Another important change is that the principal-city section of the old guide will be extensively
                    modified. This section contained fourteen important Indiana cities and towns. The new guide will
                    expand this list to twenty-two communities. Rather than including them in a separate -part of the
                    book, the society's volume will incorporate the principal cities into the tour section.
                    Each city or town (with the exception of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the Calumet area, which comprise tours unto themselves) will be the focal point of
                    a tour.
            The most important innovation in the new guide will be the restructuring of the tours. In the
                    original volume, the tours simply crossed the state in a north-south, east-west pattern. This may
                    have been an appropriate approach in 1941. In the 1940s, most highways were two-lane, and travel
                    could easily be combined with touring. A trip could always be enlivened by bringing the guide and
                    seeing the sights along the way. The interstate system has altered this pattern of travel. A trip of
                    any distance today is likely to be over a four-lane limited access highway on which touring in the
                    old sense is a virtual impossibility. In the latter part of the twentieth century touring  and getting places have come to mean two different things, and
                    the new guide will not try to serve both purposes.
            The interests of the tourist will be best served by abandoning the north-south, east-west plan of the
                    1941 guide. Instead, there will be nineteen circular tours, beginning and ending at a principal
                    city. The metropolitan areas of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the Calumet will comprise additional tours, thus making a total of twenty-one
                    tours.
            Several considerations have been taken into account in designing these tours. First, the interstate
                    system will be ignored as much as is practically possible. Second, since the book is to be a
                    comprehensive guide to the state and not just a directory of the most interesting attractions, every
                    Indiana county must be crossed by at least one tour. Third, each tour will have a theme to give it
                    regional or historical unity. Fourth, tours in urban areas will not follow a specific route.
                    Attractions in such places are so numerous that tourists will want to see them in whatever order is
                    convenient. Sights will simply be listed with a brief description and an address. One exception to
                    this rule will be walking tours. Walking tours were not included in the original guide, but since
                    many communities have planned such tours it seems desirable to include them in the new publication.
            Both the history and tour sections of the book will be illustrated with photographs, drawings, and
                    maps. The length of the new guide will be less than 700 pages. This is slightly longer than the
                    Writers' Project guide, but still a manageable volume. It will be issued both in hardcover
                    and paperback. In hardback, the volume will be suitable as a reference tool in the library. In
                    paperback, it should be light enough to be conveniently carried and referred to while traveling. The
                    Indiana Historical Society hopes that when it appears in the fall of 1982 Indiana: A
                        Guide to the Hoosier State will help awaken Hoosiers to the heritage and attractions of
                    their home state.
         
         
         
            Henry Lane Wilson and Republican Policy toward Mexico, 1913-1920
            Raymond L. Shoemaker⋆
            
            Henry Lane Wilson of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Indiana, is best known to students of American history for his activities as
                    ambassador to Mexico between 1910 and 1913, during the tumultuous Mexican Revolution, but Wilson
                    also played a significant role after 1913 in the formulation of Republican party policy toward
                    Mexico. This policy, which was openly hostile to the Mexican Revolution and its leaders, culminated
                    in the party platform on which Warren G. Harding ran in 1920. From 1913 to 1920, Republican leaders
                    repeatedly drew upon Henry Lane Wilson's knowledge and expertise to attack what they
                    considered President Woodrow Wilson's weak and vacillating Mexican policy.
            Henry Lane Wilson had served for seventeen years in the American diplomatic corps prior to Woodrow
                    Wilson's election to the presidency in 1912.1 Included in his services
                    were ministries to 
                  Chile, Greece
               , and 
                        Belgium
                    , and an ambassadorship to Mexico. Diplomacy was a logical career for Wilson; his
                    father, James Wilson, had also been a politician and diplomat who served as minister to Venezuela in
                    his last years. Henry Lane Wilson first tried his hand at business, only to lose his small fortune
                    in the Panic of 1893.2 He then turned to politics, working hard for William
                    McKinley during the 1896 campaign. As a reward for his services, President McKinley appointed Wilson
                    minister to 
                        Chile
                    .3
            
            At the time Wilson took up his post, 
                        United States
                    -
                        Chile
                     relations were unsettled. Wilson was sympathetic to the Chileans and tried with some
                    success to overcome their hostility. 
                  
                     ⋆ Raymond L. Shoemaker is assistant executive secretary,
                            Indiana Historical Society.
                  
                     1
                            Dictionary of American Biography (
                                New York
                            , 1936), XX, 325.
                  
                     2 Peter Calvert, The Mexican Revolution (
                                Cambridge
                            , Mass., 1968), 38.
                  
                     3 Henry Lane Wilson, Diplomatic Episodes in Mexico, 
                                    Belgium
                                , and 
                                    Chile
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1927), 1-6.
               
                    
                    
                  
                            HENRY LANE WILSON
                        
                  From Edward I. Bell, The Political Shame of Mexico (
                                New York
                            , 1914).
               
                     He made several diplomatic efforts in 
                        Chile
                    's behalf and was instrumental in the resolution of a boundary dispute between 
                        Chile
                     and 
                        Argentina
                    . He remained in 
                        Chile
                     after Theodore Roosevelt succeeded the assassinated McKinley. But in 1904, after seven
                    years service, he gave up his post and returned to the 
                        United States
                     in an attempt to improve his political career.4
            
            President Roosevelt, then planning the 1904 campaign, asked Wilson to make a political analysis of
                    the Midwest and West. The accuracy of the resulting report was borne out by the election returns,
                    and shortly thereafter Wilson received an appointment as minister to 
                        Belgium
                    , where he remained until 1910. His five years in Europe were uneventful, except for
                    service as the President's emissary to the Brussels Arms Control Conference in April,
                        1908.5
            
            From 1910 to 1913 Wilson held his most important diplomatic post, that of ambassador to Mexico. To
                    fill that position President William Howard Taft was seeking an experienced diplomat familiar with
                    Latin America. At that time Mexico was threatened with chaos and revolution, a situation that could
                    prove disastrous to American investors. Wilson not only met Taft's requirements, but he had
                    connections with the Guggenheim copper interests—an important company with large holdings
                    in Mexico.6
            
            After his arrival in Mexico City in 1910, the new ambassador began to have mixed feelings about the
                    aging dictator, Porfirio Díaz. He believed Díaz provided the necessary order
                    and stability to protect and encourage American business investments, but he was repelled by the
                    autocratic methods Díaz used to control Mexico.7 In May, 1911, only a
                    year after the 
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 78, 83-93, 105; Dictionary of American Biography,
                            XX, 325; Calvert, Mexican Revolution, 38.
                  
                     5 Wilson, Diplomatic Episodes, 109-13, 147-53,
                            156-66; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, December 23, 1932; Dictionary of American
                            Biography, XX, 325.
                  
                     6 Dictionary of American Biography, XX, 325; Wilson, Diplomatic Episodes, 159; Calvert, The Mexican Revolution, 38;
                            Stanley R. Ross, Francisco I. Madero (
                                New York
                            , 1955), 236-37. Henry Lane Wilson had been appointed to his post through the
                            influence of Richard Ballinger, President Taft's secretary of the interior, who had
                            close connections with the Guggenheim family. Further, Ambassador Wilson's brother,
                            former Senator John Wilson of 
                                Washington
                             and the Republican boss of the state, was associated with Ballinger in the
                            management of affairs in the Northwest to the benefit of the Guggenheims. Edward I. Bell,
                                The Political Shame of Mexico (
                                New York
                            , 1914), 136-37.
                  
                     7 U.S., Congress, "Investigation of Mexican
                            Affairs," Senate Document 285, 66th Cong., 2nd Sess., (U.S.
                            Serial Set 7666) Volume 10, (1920), p. 2254; Wilson, Diplomatic Episodes,
                            167, 172-75, 194-201, 207; Calvert, Mexican Revolution, 41.
               
                     new ambassador had assumed his post, Francisco I. Madero
                    overthrew Díaz. Wilson received the new government with misgivings. He was convinced that
                    the ignorance of the majority of the Mexican population made it impossible to form a democratic
                    government through revolution; this could only be achieved, he believed, by the education and
                    training of the masses by the elite.8 The fact that Madero's family
                    controlled a chain of smelters in competition with the Guggenheim, and thus Wilson's,
                    interests made an objective judgment even more difficult for the ambassador.9
            
            Wilson's views were partially vindicated when Madero proved unable to gain effective control
                    of Mexico, as his forces represented but one of several revolutionary factions. Thus,
                    Madero's victory over Díaz did not end the disorder that threatened American
                    investments. Wilson's reports to Secretary of State Philander C. Knox were filled with
                    pessimism; indeed, the ambassador presented a much more hopeless case for Madero than was justified.
                    The contrast between Wilson's pessimism and the more optimistic American consular reports
                    from other parts of Mexico confused 
                        Knox
                    , although the secretary retreated when his inquiries met with a stinging rebuke from
                    Wilson, who threatened to resign.10
            
            A personality difference between Ambassador Wilson and Madero undoubtedly contributed to the
                    Hoosier's dissatisfaction with the Mexican government. Wilson was a hard-headed businessman
                    and realist, while Madero was a visionary and idealist. Clearly Henry Lane Wilson, like most
                    Americans, never understood the Mexican Revolution. He could not comprehend why Madero failed to
                    restore order, because he never realized the complex and diverse forces that the Mexican leader had
                    to reconcile in order to carry out even limited political and economic reforms. Wilson may have been
                    correct in his opinion that Madero was incapable of providing the required leadership for
                    tranquility, but he also failed to appreciate the difficulty of that task.11
            
            
               
                  8 "Investigation of Mexican Affairs," Senate Document 285, pp. 2254-56.
               
                  9 Ross, Madero, 3, 237; Calvert, Mexican
                            Revolution, 38-39; Wilfred Callcott, Liberalism in Mexico, 1856-1929
                        (Hamden, Conn., 1965), 220-21; Walter V. and Marie V. Scholes, The Foreign Policies
                            of the Taft Administration (
                            Columbia
                        , Mo., 1970), 94-95.
               
                  10 Kenneth J. Grieb, The 
                                United States
                             and Huerta (Lincoln, Neb., 1969), 4; Calvert, Mexican
                            Revolution, 85, 40-46, 109-19, 123-27; Scholes and Scholes, Policies of
                            Taft, 96.
               
                  11 Grieb, 
                     
                                United States
                             and Huerta, 4-5; Calvert, Mexican Revolution, 94; Ross,
                            Madero, 250-75.
            
            
            Madero successfully quashed several uprisings before fighting broke out in Mexico City itself on
                    February 10, 1913.12 The American embassy was located in the battle area, and
                    Wilson took advantage of his position to demand that Madero restore order for the safety of the
                    Americans there. He telegraphed 
                        Knox
                    : "the Government of the 
                        United States
                     … should send firm, drastic instructions, perhaps of a menacing character,
                    to be transmitted personally to … President Madero and to the leaders of the
                    revolutionary movement. If I were in possession of instructions of this character or clothed with
                    general powers in the name of the President, I might be able to induce a cession of
                        hostilities."13 Both Madero and 
                        Knox
                     suggested that Wilson simply move the embassy to a safer location, but Wilson dismissed
                    that recommendation by claiming that there was no safe place in Mexico City.14
            
            Madero's situation rapidly deteriorated. First, his commander, General Victoriano Huerta,
                    secretly betrayed him to the rebel commander, General Felix Díaz, nephew of Porfirio
                    Díaz. Then Wilson, without authority from the state department, met with General
                    Huerta—still acting officially as Madero's commander—to demand a
                    cessation of the fighting, ostensibly to guarantee the safety of those in the embassy. In fact,
                    recognizing Madero's weakness and actively seeking stability, Ambassador Wilson did
                    everything in his power to facilitate a transition of rule to Huerta. He called a meeting of Mexican
                    senators and through the foreign secretary, Pedro Lascuráin, stated that the 
                        United States
                     would favor Madero's resignation. The senators took the hint, and the next day
                    a delegation called on Madero to persuade him to step down. He refused, but within the next few days
                    Huerta deposed him.15 On February 20, Huerta became provisional president, and
                    shortly thereafter his men murdered Madero. Eager for a return to order, Wilson convinced the other
                    foreign ministers that Huerta's recognition by their governments was imperative. He also
                    ordered the American consular officers to report that the government and people of Mexico supported
                        Huerta.16
            
            
               
                  12 Ross, Madero, 250-75.
               
                  13 Quoted in Scholes and Scholes, Policies of Taft,
                        97-98.
               
                  14
                        Ibid., 97-99; Calvert, Mexican Revolution, 133; Ross, Madero, 301; Wilson, Diplomatic Episodes, 260-61.
               
                  15 "Investigation of Mexican Affairs," Senate Document 285, pp. 2268; Grieb, 
                     
                                United States
                             and Huerta, 3; Calvert, Mexican Revolution, 131-35,
                        142-50; Ross, Madero, 291-304, especially 298-300; Scholes and Scholes, Policies of Taft, 99-101.
               
                  16 Scholes and Scholes, Policies of Taft, 101; Ross, Madero, 325-26; F. Edward Haley, Revolution and Intervention: The
                            Diplomacy of Taft and Wilson with Mexico, 1910-1917 (
                            Boston
                        , 1970), 72.
            
            
            President Woodrow Wilson assumed office just six weeks after the Huerta coup. He regarded the
                    overthrow of Madero in a different light from the American ambassador. He saw it as the death of
                    democracy rather than the return to order and was incensed that an American diplomat should have
                    played such a destructive role in another country's internal affairs.17
                    The President retained Henry Lane Wilson at his post only because to replace him with a new
                    ambassador would imply recognition of Huerta's military government, an action he was
                    determined not to take, despite the ambassador's entreaties for him to do so.18
            
            By May, 1913, however, rumors and official reports of Ambassador Wilson's part in the coup
                    and in Madero's death became too intense to ignore, leading the President to recall the
                    ambassador to the 
                        United States
                     for "consultations." The chargé remained as the senior
                    American diplomat in Mexico. When Henry Lane Wilson realized upon arriving in 
                        Washington
                     that the President was not the least interested in his views he presented them instead
                    to the Senate over the President's objections. There he found a much more sympathetic
                    audience. In August, Secretary of State William Jennings Bryan requested and received Henry Lane
                    Wilson's resignation.19
            
            If the President believed that he had seen the last of Henry Lane Wilson, he was mistaken. The former
                    ambassador now began working for the defeat of Democrats and their "ruinous" 
                  
                     17 Calvert, Mexican Revolution, 111-16; Grieb, 
                        
                                    United States
                                 and Huerta, 30-49; Arthur S. Link, Wilson the
                                Diplomatist: A Look at His Major Foreign Policies (
                                Chicago
                            , 1963), 19-21, 23-24. One of President Wilson's observers, William B.
                            Hale, sent back a condemnation of Henry Lane Wilson's conduct, which became one of
                            the major reasons the President felt he must recall his ambassador. Hale concluded in his
                            critique of Ambassador Wilson's performance that "It must be a cause of
                            grief that what is probably the most dramatic story in which an American diplomatic officer
                            has ever been involved should be a story of sympathy with treason, perfidy and assassination
                            in an assault on constitutional government." Quoted in Haley, Revolution and Intervention, 95.
                  
                     18 Grieb, 
                        
                                    United States
                                 and Huerta, 36, 37, 69, 70, 71, 75.
                  
                     19 Grieb, 
                        
                                    United States
                                 and Huerta, 68-89; Henry Lane Wilson to Theodore Roosevelt, May 27,
                            1914, Reel 184, Series 1, Theodore Roosevelt Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of
                            Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.). Huerta became so anathema to President Wilson that he used every means
                            in his power, short of war, to force him from office. He resorted to interference in Mexican
                            affairs, for which he had condemned his ambassador, and on a much larger scale. By 1914, the
                            President was allowing arms to reach Huerta's rival, Venustiano Carranza, while
                            forbidding their sale to Huerta. In April, 1914, the 
                                United States
                             captured the Mexican port of 
                                Vera Cruz
                             over a trivial point of honor, hoping to topple Huerta by withholding the
                            shipping revenues collected at that port. For a detailed account of this affair, see Robert
                            E. Quirk, An Affair of Honor: Woodrow Wilson and the Occupation of 
                                    Vera Cruz
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1964).
               
                     foreign policy. Henry Lane Wilson believed that the
                    President's refusal to recognize Huerta had prevented the other major powers from doing so
                    and kept from the Huerta government the mantle of legitimacy. This action, Henry Lane Wilson felt,
                    would prolong the turmoil in Mexico and increase the danger to American investors. It was essential
                    that Republicans regain control of the country and reverse the President's disastrous
                    Mexican policy.20
            
            Henry Lane Wilson returned to Indiana and plunged deeply into national politics. He paid little
                    attention to local or state affairs, but rather applied himself vigorously to the task of
                    overturning the President's foreign policy. His expertise in foreign affairs, especially
                    Latin America, made him a valuable asset to the Republican party as he pursued his objectives from
                    his recall in 1913 until he was incapacitated by a stroke in 1927.21 Henry Lane
                    Wilson's efforts fell into four categories: he worked through formal Republican
                    organizations; he corresponded with important Republican leaders, trying to determine what needed to
                    be done to defeat Democrats; he made valuable use of the media to keep the public aware of his
                    views; and he provided essential service to the Republican party in platform writing and
                    campaigning. In all these areas, Wilson proved a valuable asset.
            Immediately after his recall, Henry Lane Wilson began writing articles denouncing President Woodrow
                    Wilson's diplomacy, which he was convinced would undermine 
                        United States
                    ' prestige and business stability in Mexico.22 In addition,
                    he began planning for President Wilson's defeat at the polls in 1916. The former ambassador
                    and other Republicans were quick to take political advantage of what they perceived as the
                    President's mistakes in Mexico.
            Woodrow Wilson refused to recognize Victoriano Huerta's regime as the government of Mexico
                    but favored instead Ven-ustiano Carranza, who claimed to be the rightful successor to 
                  
                     20 Wilson to Theodore Roosevelt, May 14, 1916, Reel 209, Wilson to
                            Roosevelt, May 19, 1914, Reel 183, Wilson to Roosevelt, January 15, 1916, Reel 205, Series
                            1, Roosevelt Papers.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, December 23, 1932.
                  
                     22 Henry Lane Wilson, "Latest Phase of the Mexican
                            Situation," Independent, LXXVI (November, 1913), 297-98; Henry
                            Lane Wilson, "Errors with Reference to Mexico and Events that Have Occurred
                            There," Annals of the American Academy, LIV (July, 1914), 148-61;
                            Henry Lane Wilson, "Last Phase in Mexico: Lest We Forget," Forum, LVI (September, 1916), 257-67; Henry Lane Wilson, "What Must be
                            Done with Mexico: The Obligations of the 
                                United States
                             on Our Illiterate and Bandit-Infested Neighbor Nation," Forum LXII (September, 1919), 257-64.
               
                     the fallen Madero. By withholding recognition from Huerta and
                    forcing most of the European countries to do likewise, President Wilson gradually undermined
                    Huerta's position and hastened his downfall and replacement by Carranza in July, 1915.
                    Unfortunately for the President, he was never able to understand that Carranza, no less than Huerta,
                    resented American interference in Mexican affairs: Carranza's hostility and opposition to
                    Woodrow Wilson's moralistic lectures were a continuous source of embarrassment to the
                    President.
            As new president of Mexico, Carranza initially proved as incapable of controlling the revolution as
                    his predecesors. His erstwhile ally turned enemy, Francisco (Pancho) Villa, ravaged northern Mexico
                    and the border, killing American citizens in the process. Wilson reacted by dispatching General John
                    J. Pershing into Mexico with a small army to capture Villa. This expedition not only failed in its
                    objective but exacerbated Mexican-American relations by reviving fears of American intervention in
                    Mexican internal affairs.23
            
            General Pershing's punitive expedition, or "puny expedition" as Henry Lane
                    Wilson called it, became a prime target for Republicans when they met at their 
                        Chicago
                     convention in June, 1916. The Mexican issue appeared as one of the major points in the
                        platform.24 Because the Republican candidate for President in 1916, Charles
                    Evans Hughes, bore down heavily on the issue throughout his campaign, the former ambassador was a
                    valuable aid and major figure in the Republican party in the months preceding the election.25 Unfortunately for the Republicans, the President's slogan,
                    "He kept us out of war," proved too effective to overcome, and Woodrow Wilson was
                    reelected in a very close contest.
            After the election, a bitterly disappointed Henry Lane Wilson wrote to former President Taft, with
                    whom he had become cordial, bewailing the capriciousness of the American voter. The former
                    ambassador was so heartsick that he expressed an intent never to venture into politics again. Wilson
                    was not one to quit so easily, however. Even while disclaiming politics, he proposed to go on a
                    fact-finding tour of Latin America on behalf of the Republican party.26
            
            
               
                  23 Grieb, 
                     
                                United States
                             and Huerta, 69-192; Hale, Revolution and Intervention,
                        83-223; Callcott, Liberalism in Mexico, 239-42, 249-51.
               
                  24
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, June 11, 1916.
               
                  25 James H. Jones, "Henry Lane Wilson and the Election of
                        1916," unpublished paper, copy in author's possession.
               
                  26 Wilson to William Howard Taft, November 17, 1916, Series 3, General
                        Correspondence, William Howard Taft Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.).
            
            
            In January, 1917, Henry Lane Wilson gained national attention when he had a falling out with Taft
                    over a new organization which Taft founded—the League to Enforce Peace, established in
                    mid-1915 to educate Americans about the need for military preparedness. At Taft's request,
                    Wilson had helped organize the Indiana branch of the League in 1916 and was trying to keep it
                    Republican and opposed to Woodrow Wilson. But Taft, as its national president, was attempting to
                    infuse more of a bipartisan character into the state organization. According to the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times, which carried a lengthy account of the struggle, Henry Lane Wilson felt
                    that some of the leaders of the League were trying to divert it from its original purpose of
                    military preparedness and "adopt as a program of action the plan for a world alliance put
                    forward by President Wilson …," to which the former ambassador, and most other
                    Republicans, were inalterably opposed.27 In late January, Henry Lane Wilson
                    wrote Taft that Democrats were being brought into the Indiana League with no counter-balancing
                    Republicans. He warned that the League was now a Democratic organization that was being used to
                    support President Wilson's program. If such a movement were allowed to continue, he would
                    resign his office.28 A few days later Henry Lane Wilson expanded his arguments
                    and expressed his real concern. It was true that the League to Enforce Peace had as its basic
                    principle the concept of a world court, he began; nevertheless, he feared President Wilson would
                    turn the League into an organization "with new doctrines involving the entanglement of this
                    nation in European questions and the abandonment of the 
                        Monroe
                     Doctrine…."29
            
            Taft's answer to Wilson demonstrated the ideological rift that existed between them and
                    foreshadowed the split that developed in the Republican party between 1918 and 1920 over the League
                    of Nations. Taft supported Woodrow Wilson's basic concept of a world organization. Indeed,
                    he did not think such principles incompatible with those of his own League to Enforce Peace.
                    "The President's proposition only is that we ought not to make a world
                    organization unless the peace which we are to preserve should be a just one…. I
                    don't understand that he surrenders the 
                        Monroe
                     Doctrine in any way. He only uses the 
                  
                     27
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, January 28, 1917.
                  
                     28 Wilson to Taft, January 22, 23, 1917, Series 3, General
                            Correspondence, Taft Papers.
                  
                     29 Wilson to Taft, January 26, 1917, ibid.
                  
               
                    
                    
                        Monroe
                     Doctrine to give the idea of the principle upon which he thinks the World League ought
                    to operate…."30
            
            Henry Lane Wilson wrote again on the subject on January 27, before receiving Taft's
                    rebuttal, and he reported with pleasure the failure of the new leadership in Indiana to win converts
                    to the new policy—an inference he made from the sparse attendance at a banquet the League
                    had sponsored.31 In frustration the former ambassador resigned from the League
                    and formed a rival organization, the Indiana Patriotic League, based upon the principles that he
                    felt the League to Enforce Peace should have supported.32
            
            Despite their conflict over the League to Enforce Peace, Henry Lane Wilson and Taft remained close on
                    other issues. A few months after his resignation from the League, Wilson again began to correspond
                    with Taft. Their renewed contact remained cordial and frequent until the ambassador's
                    paralyzing stroke in 1927. Their later thoughts and letters focused on international problems that
                    both felt were complicated by President Wilson's alleged bumbling during the negotiations
                    at 
                        Versailles
                     ending World War I.33
            
            Henry Lane Wilson warned Taft of the potential danger posed by Japanese expansion onto the Asian
                    mainland—a situation he felt was sanctioned in the Treaty of 
                        Versailles
                    . Taft recognized the situation was "not free from difficulty," but he
                    had every confidence the Japanese would honor their promise to withdraw from 
                        China
                    . "I know a good deal about their leading men and their attitudes, and I am
                    quite sure that they would be very much adverse to subjecting themselves to any criticism on the
                    ground of a breach of good faith…."34 Technically the former
                    President was right; the Japanese did withdraw temporarily from 
                        China
                    . But in the 1930s, the ambassador's fears proved prophetic.
            In 1919 Henry Lane Wilson again began to write for public consumption and enlightenment, as he had
                    before the 1916 election. As a former minister to 
                        Belgium
                    , for example, he expressed indignation at 
                        Germany
                    's treatment of that nation. 
                  
                     30 Taft to Wilson, January 26, 1917, Series 8, Letterbook, Yale 57,
                                ibid.
                  
                  
                     31 Wilson to Taft, January 27, 1917, Series 3, General Correspondence,
                                ibid.
                  
                  
                     32
                            Ibid. The Indiana Patriotic League had little significance except Henry
                            Lane Wilson's desire to remain politically active. Wilson to Theodore Roosevelt,
                            January 23, 1918, Reel 260, Series 1; Roosevelt to Wilson, February 3, 5, 1918, Reel 400,
                            Series 3A, Roosevelt Papers.
                  
                     33 See Series 8, Letterbook, Series 3, General Correspondence, Taft
                            Papers.
                  
                     34 Taft to Wilson, March 28, 1918, Series 8, Letterbook, Yale 70, ibid.
                  
               
                     In an article in the Forum entitled
                    "Restore 
                        Belgium
                    ," the former ambassador maintained that although 
                        Belgium
                     had regained its territory the nation had suffered
                        from grave injuries which justice requires shall be promptly and adequately repaired at the
                            expense of those who inflicted them…. Because she has been punished for being
                            right she should be rewarded by the penalization of those who inflicted the
                            wrong…. 
                                Germany
                             inflicted great wrong on 
                                Belgium
                             without provocation. She should be made to pay the penalty in full.35
                  
                    
            
            But Mexico, not Europe, remained Henry Lane Wilson's chief concern. His experience with that
                    nation and his desire to see the return of a favorable climate for investment there made the
                    ambassador as valuable to the Republicans in 1919 and 1920, as he had been in 1916. In September,
                    1919, in an article entitled "What Must be Done with Mexico," he opened with a
                    short, simplified version of the events of the Mexican Revolution, portraying Porfirio
                    Díaz and, to a lesser extent, Victoriano Huerta, as stable and pro-American. Mexico
                    needed the type of rule provided by these men, Wilson maintained. He then went on to characterize
                    Francisco Madero and the man who overthrew Huerta in 1915, Venustiano Carranza, as weak, vacillating
                    rulers unable to maintain order or protect foreign property. He flayed President Wilson for failing
                    to prevent anarchy in Mexico. "No civilized power, great or small, would tolerate, in
                    contiguous territory, such conditions as we have reluctantly endured for eight years in
                    Mexico." Since the time of effectiveness of "pacific penetration or financial
                    assistance" had passed, Henry Lane Wilson now reluctantly advocated armed intervention and
                    possible annexation of the northern part of Mexico.36
            
            Six months later, the former ambassador expanded his article for George H. Blakeslee's
                    edition of Mexico and the Caribbean. Here Wilson presented three possible
                    alternatives for dealing with Mexico. The first was "active and sympathetic support of the
                    real governing elements in Mexico." These elements, according to Wilson, included the
                    "white" minority, most of whom had been driven into exile. If this alternative
                    were unsuccessful, he advocated "the creation, organization and recognition of a new
                    independent republic to extend from the Rio Grand [sic] to the Twenty-Second Parallel." If
                    the first two alternatives failed, "armed intervention" was the only choice left.
                    Although Henry Lane Wilson disclaimed any desire for the 
                  
                     35 Henry Lane Wilson, "Restore 
                                Belgium
                            ," Forum, LXI (June, 1919), 673.
                  
                     36 Wilson, "What Must be Done with Mexico," 257-64.
                            Quotation is from page 262.
               
                     third alternative, he felt that it was now inevitable because
                    of President Wilson's unwise policies.37 The former
                    ambassador's views had a direct bearing on the Republican platform of 1920.
            In March, 1920, congressional Republicans, eyeing the approaching Presidential election, utilized
                    Henry Lane Wilson's expertise. They called him to 
                        Washington
                     to testify before the Senate Committee for the Investigation of Mexican Affairs,
                    informally known as the Fall Committee. Republican Senator Albert Fall of 
                        New Mexico
                     had persuaded the Senate to form a committee to investigate President Wilson's
                    Mexican policies. The stated purpose of the committee was to evaluate proposed American responses to
                    the nationalistic and anti-foreign Mexican Constitution of 1917. This constitution was the climax of
                    the Mexican revolutionary effort to provide political, social, and economic reform. One article
                    prohibited foreign ownership of Mexican land and natural resources, striking directly at American
                    investors, especially the oil companies.
            Many Republican politicians and businessmen blamed Woodrow Wilson for not forcing Carranza's
                    government to rescind this provision.38 Witness after witness before the Fall
                    Committee condemned the lenient attitude the President had adopted toward Mexico as leading to the
                    loss of American lives, property, and prestige. The most vocal witness was the last Republican
                    ambassador to Mexico, Henry Lane Wilson. His testimony filled nearly seventy pages as he outlined
                    events leading up to the Mexican Revolution and the turmoil that followed. Wilson believed that
                    there had been a pattern of steady degeneration after Taft left office. The Fall Committee,
                    dominated by Republicans, formed its questions to allow the former ambassador to list his grievances
                    against the President's Mexican policy. He began by stating that "practically all
                    of the material development of Mexico is due to American enterprise, initiative and
                    capital." The former ambassador condemned the Mexicans for dislodging American business,
                    thereby cutting their own throats because only the Americans and the "white"
                    Mexicans, who were now in exile, were capable of keeping the system going. Wilson dismissed
                    Francisco Madero as a weak leader who obtained power by chance and who had actually given less to
                    the poor than Porfirio Díaz, the dictator he had overthrown.39 Henry
                    Lane Wilson also vehemently defended his 
                  
                     37 Henry Lane Wilson, "How to Restore Peace in
                            Mexico," in George H. Blakeslee, ed., Mexico and the Caribbean (
                                New York
                            , 1920), 147-55.
                  
                     38 "Investigation of Mexican Affairs," Senate Document 285, pp. 2249-2316.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., 2250-59. Quotation is from page 2250.
               
                     own conduct during the revolt against Madero. He stated that by
                    mediating between the rebels and Madero he had managed to stop the carnage. As the leader of the
                    diplomatic corps in Mexico City, he explained, he had convinced Madero to resign for the good of
                    Mexico. He attributed Madero's subsequent death to an attempted rescue by some of the
                        Maderistas.40 Wilson finished his testimony by recapitulating the events
                    after Madero's death. According to a report by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Star, he stated that the Mexican situation became impossible after President
                    Wilson's unneutral conduct had helped overthrow Huerta. He believed Huerta was the last
                    hope for Mexican stability and order. After his defeat total anarchy seized Mexico.41 The Fall Committee, unsurprisingly, finished its hearings only five months before the 1920
                    elections.
            The Republican party used Henry Lane Wilson's talents in other ways during the election
                    campaign. He became one of the party work horses and strategy makers. Several months before the Fall
                    hearings, Will Hays, the Republican National Chairman, placed fellow Hoosier Wilson on the
                    Republican Committee on Politics and Platform. It was in this connection that Wilson wrote Taft,
                    "I shall want your views upon a number of subjects but more especially on the Far Eastern
                    situation, the Mexican situation, the industrial question, and, if the issues have taken definite
                    form, on the League question…,"42
            
            After three years of silence, Wilson reopened the issue of the League of Nations with a flexibility
                    absent in his earlier correspondence with Taft. In January, 1917, when he resigned from the League
                    to Enforce Peace, Wilson would allow no room for compromise on the subject. Perhaps in 1920, in a
                    national rather than a local setting, he realized that unity necessitated compromise and that
                    Republicans had to unify to win the election. Perhaps also he hoped that Taft had modified his views
                    as the issue became more and more a partisan one. In any event, Wilson wrote Taft that he hoped he
                    would use his "great prestige 
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., 2261-316. The official Mexican version was absurd. Madero actually
                            was secretly taken from his prison at night, driven down a back alley, and there he and his
                            vice-president, Pi$nTo Suerta, were killed by their guards. It is doubtful that
                            even Henry Lane Wilson believed Huerta's version; certainly few others did. He
                            would have been on firmer ground had he reported that Huerta did not authorize the murder
                            and it was the work of ¢eneral Féliz Díaz. There is some
                            evidence for that possibility. See Grieb, The 
                                    United States
                                 and Huerta, 15-30.
                  
                     41 "Investigation of Mexican Affairs," Senate Document 285, pp. 2261-2316; 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Star, April 17, 1920.
                  
                     42 Wilson to Taft, January 11, 1920, Series 3, General Correspondence,
                            Taft Papers.
               
                     in public repudiation of the President's unfortunate
                    attitude on the treaty [of 
                        Versailles
                    ]. His attitude will cost our adherence as the country is overwhelmingly in
                        opposition."43
            
            The "unfortunate attitude" to which Wilson referred was the President's
                    inflexibility concerning Article 10 of the Treaty of 
                        Versailles
                    , which promised that member nations would respect and protect against aggression the
                    territory of all other member nations. This article became the main Republican target of
                        opposition.44 Taft agreed with his former ambassador in condemning President
                    Wilson, but he also lashed out at Republican Henry Cabot Lodge: 
                        I am not surprised at Wilson's attitude. He is not a man of real
                            patriotism—neither is Lodge—and we labor under the difficulty of
                            having men of very similar motives, personal, partisan, and small opposed to each
                            other…. Lodge seeks to put the treaty into politics, and so does Wilson.
                     Nevertheless, he told Wilson that he was going to 
                        Washington
                     to attempt a compromise on the issue.45
            
            Henry Lane Wilson's willingness to discuss the League became more evident a few months later
                    when, on March 11, he wrote to Taft, "In an address which I delivered at 
                        Washington
                     which was published in the proceedings concurrently with the other addresses including
                    that of President Wilson, I took the ground that preliminary methods and theories were not of great
                    importance or consequences…." Unified organization was all that mattered;
                    divergent views on the League could be worked out later.46 Taft was pleased that
                    he and his former ambassador were closer in their positions than before; now they occupied common
                    ground from which to attack President Wilson's League while still allowing for support of
                    some type of international organization.47
            
            The first effect of Henry Lane Wilson's hard work since the Republican's narrow
                    defeat in 1916 appeared at the Republican 
                  
                     43 Wilson to Taft, January 9, 1920, ibid.
                  
                  
                     44 Article 10 guaranteed each League member political and territorial
                            independence. There was no provision made for America's unique position vis
                            à vis Latin America as enunciated in the 
                                Monroe
                             Doctrine. At first glance, it also seemed to diminish the power of Congress in
                            foreign affairs and give the options to an international body. These worries were probably
                            groundless, as the 
                                United States
                             had veto power. It is likely that the issue could have been resolved if not for
                            President Wilson's inflexible stance on the issue and his unwillingness to
                            compromise with a Republican Senate. See Link, Wilson the Diplomatist,
                            127-56.
                  
                     45 Taft to Wilson, January 12, 13, 1920. Series 8, Yale 93, part 1,
                            Letter-book, Taft Papers.
                  
                     46 Wilson to Taft, March 11, 1920, Series 3, General Correspondence,
                                ibid.
                  
                  
                     47 Taft to Wilson, March 13, 1920, Series 8, Yale 95, part 1,
                            Letterbook, ibid.
                  
               
                     national convention in 
                        Chicago
                    . The presentation of the party platform revealed an inordinate amount of attention
                    devoted to the Mexican question in a ringing rebuke of President Wilson's eight-year
                    policy. It read like a pastiche of Ambassador Wilson's articles, letters, and speeches on
                    the subject. The 
                        New York
                    
                    Times reported that "this plank, prepared by Henry Lane Wilson, former
                    American ambassador to Mexico, and presented by him to the committee tonight, while not meeting with
                    the entire approval of some Republicans, is expected to be accepted by the Resolutions
                        Committee."48 The plank began with a condemnation of President
                    Wilson and accused him of allowing Mexicans to attack American lives, property, and honor with
                    impunity. Although the President had often demanded retribution, the Mexican government felt that
                    compliance was not necessary, for in a showdown they knew the President would first threaten with
                    his fist and then scold with his finger. The Republican plank then issued a thinly veiled threat
                    against Mexico: "The Republican party pledges itself to a consistent, firm and effective
                    policy towards Mexico that shall protect the rights of American citizens lawfully in Mexico to
                    security of life and enjoyment of property in connection with an established international law and
                    our treaty rights."49
            
            Henry Lane Wilson could well be proud of his achievement. The plank contained all that he wanted.
                    Since his dismissal from his Mexican post in 1913, he had tried to mold a Republican Mexican policy
                    to replace a Democratic one that he felt was ambivalent and weak. He had been a key participant in
                    making Mexico a coherent issue in 1916.50 Despite Hughes' defeat that
                    year Wilson had pushed to incorporate the topic as a major part of the 1920 Republican platform.
                    After the 1920 election, one political observer commented that the Republicans "are
                    probably more agreed upon the necessity of intervention in Mexico than they are upon any one other
                        subject…."51 Henry Lane Wilson had helped make this so.
            Wilson's last contribution to the Republican effort in the election of 1920 was as a
                    campaign speaker. He was a tireless campaigner, especially when he could sense victory. He began in
                    late summer with a personal attack on the Democratic nominee, Governor James M. Cox of 
                        Ohio
                    . Wilson stated that "All hope of Democratic success was banished with the
                    nomination 
                  
                     48
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Times, June 9, 1920.
                  
                            49
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     50 James H. Jones, "Henry Lane Wilson," 12-14.
                  
                     51 "Republican Victory," New
                            Republic, XXIV (November 10, 1920), 252-54.
               
                     of Mr. Cox…. I think it may be said with safety that
                    not a single state west of the 
                        Mississippi
                     with the possible exception of 
                        Montana
                    , will give a Democratic majority."52
            
            Most of Henry Lane Wilson's speeches, however, like those of the rest of the Republican
                    campaigners, were devoted to attacks on the lame-duck President. In 
                        New York
                    , he criticized President Wilson for his "restless and opaque-visioned
                    diplomacy [that] led to the extention of American sovereignty over Hayti [sic] and Santo Domingo, to
                    the overthrow of one Mexican president and the autocratic investiture of another, and has cost us
                    the friendship of 
                        Italy
                    , the bitter criticisms of 
                        France
                    , the cold distrust of Great Britain, and the reproachful complaints of 
                        China
                    ."53
            
            In 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, he ridiculed the policy of national determination along racial lines as
                    espoused by the President at 
                        Versailles
                    . This policy had wrongfully been applied in the dismemberment of 
                        Austria
                    -
                        Hungary
                    , yet had not been used properly to prevent the Japanese from taking control of the
                    Chinese province of Shantung. If a policy was to be valid, it must be consistent, explained Henry
                    Lane Wilson. To illustrate his point, the former ambassador examined how the President's
                    policy would affect the 
                        United States
                    : "This principle if applied in the case of 
                        New Mexico
                     and 
                        Arizona
                    , where there is perhaps a majority of people of Mexican blood, would justify their
                    transfer … to the Mexican republic…." He also hypothetically applied
                    this principle to the eleven former Confederate states, this speech coming one week before the Grand
                    Army of the Republic reunion in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .54
            
            The Democrats realized that they had an uphill fight to retain the presidency and decided to
                    concentrate their largest efforts in a saturation campaign in the "swing states"
                    of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , West 
                  Virginia, New York, New Jersey
               ,
                    and 
                        Maryland
                    . The Democratic nominee spent more time campaigning in Indiana than in any other state
                    except his own, 
                        Ohio
                    . In addition, over one hundred of the five hundred Democratic campaigners spoke in
                    Indiana the final month. An equal number spoke in 
                        Ohio
                    . The Republicans responded in kind, but Mark Sullivan, the famous political observer,
                    commented that "of the five states in this middle Western country … Indiana is
                    the one that Cox has the best chance of carrying." Sullivan attributed this to the
                    state's strong pro-League temper.55
            
            
               
                  52
                        
                            New York
                        
                        Times, September 1, 1920.
               
                  53
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, September 3, 1920.
               
                  54
                        Ibid., October 2, 1920.
               
                  55
                        Ibid., October 2, 5, 25, 1920.
            
            
            Nevertheless, Henry Lane Wilson continued the attack on President Wilson's League. Speaking
                    at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the ambassador said, "Whatever its [Article 10] relative importance may be,
                    … it takes away from the Congress …. its constitutional right of declaring or
                    refusing to declare war, and transfers that right to a secret international tribunal sitting in
                            
                  Geneva, Paris
                or Brussels."56 Henry Lane
                    Wilson's opinions on the League were shared by the Republican presidential nominee, Warren
                    G. Harding. On October 7, in a speech at Omaha, Harding made up his mind on the League and rejected
                    it in its entirety. He said, "I understand the position of the Democratic nominee and he
                    understands mine. In simple words, it is that he favors going into the 
                        Paris
                     league and I favor staying out."57 Henry Lane Wilson
                    hastened to support Harding's stand. At 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, to show that his own position had been clear and correct, he read to the
                    audience a portion of a speech he had made while still the Indiana president of the League to
                    Enforce Peace. At that time he had warned of the loss of American sovereignty under the League
                    concept: "we have been free, following the wise councils of 
                        Washington
                    , reinforced by the admonitions of Jefferson, 
                        Cleveland
                     and McKinley, from entanglements in European difficulties." A few days after
                    the 
                        Evansville
                     speech, he further admonished President Wilson and his internationalism: "We
                    did not enter the war to make the world safe for democracy or to become arbitrators of European
                    difficulties … but to establish the rights of American citizens to ride peaceably upon
                    the high seas, and incidentally to destroy a menace which if it broke down the gates of 
                        Paris
                     would have to be confronted at the gates of 
                        New York
                    ."58
            
            On October 14, Harding visited 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Henry Lane Wilson took charge of his reception. It is quite possible that the
                    senator and the former ambassador had much to discuss concerning Mexico, for Harding next commenced
                    a whirlwind tour of the Southwest. Delivering eleven speeches in two days, he condemned President
                    Wilson's Mexican policy repeatedly. Harding advocated "a program of amicable
                    relations to insure protection of American interests on Mexican soil without interferring unduly in
                    the internal affairs of the Mexican republic."59
            
            
               
                  56
                        Ibid., October 5, 1920.
               
                  57
                        Ibid., October 8, 1920.
               
                  58
                        Ibid., October 9, 14, 1920. Quotation is from ibid., October
                        14, 1920.
               
                  59
                        Ibid., October 10, 15, 1920.
            
            
            Henry Lane Wilson was a hardy campaigner in the two weeks before the election. He spoke every day in
                    a different city denouncing President Wilson, praising Harding, and urging the reelection of Indiana
                    Republican senator, James E. Watson. On several occasions he left the impression that he and Harding
                    had been close for fifteen years, although it is doubtful the two men knew each other very well.60 Wilson, like other Republican workers, had to stretch the truth to claim an
                    intimate relationship with the dark-horse candidate.
            The postmortem of the election emphasized the importance of the Mexican issue to the Republicans.
                    Several writers attributed the Democratic defeat in large measure to businessmen's desire
                    to resume commercial expansion, especially in Mexico. Journalist Franklin H. Giddings felt that
                    "American business wants to exploit Mexico and to trade with 
                        Germany
                    . The entire American nation is tired of standing at moral attention. We want to do our
                    duty of course—when did we ever fail? But we must be practical…."61 The New Republic praised Woodrow Wilson's policy
                    of nonintervention in Mexico but feared American impatience with the Mexican Revolution would allow
                    exploitation of Mexico by "a relatively small group eager for loot and
                        power…."62 One writer wondered about the course of
                    America's Mexican policy under the Republicans: "and the most immediate perhaps of
                    all American questions, what is to be President Harding's response to those powerful
                    interests which, as the presidential campaign has shown, have been consolidating their forces for a
                    drastic change in the policy of the 
                        United States
                     toward Mexico?"63
            
            This question also worried the Mexican government which for ten crisis-filled years had managed to
                    avoid a large-scale American intervention. Mexican leaders knew well Henry Lane Wilson and his
                    attitude of impatience toward political unrest that interfered with American business. Now the party
                    that had given voice to these attitudes had been restored to power. Before the election, President
                    Alvaro Obregón, Carranza's successor, began an intensive campaign to obtain
                    recognition from 
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., October 16, 18, 25, 1920. Harding's papers in 
                                Washington
                             do not reveal a single instance of correspondence with the former ambassador.
                            Warren G. Harding Papers (Manuscript Division, Library of Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
                  
                     61 Franklin H. Giddings, "What Did It," Independent, (November 20, 1920), 264.
                  
                     62 "Recognition of Mexico," New
                                Republic, XXIV (November 10, 1920), 258.
                  
                     63 S.K. Ratcliffe, "The Republican Triumph," Contemporary Review, CXVIII (November 5, 1920), 777-83.
               
                     President Wilson. It is true that General Obregón,
                    as the new ruler of Mexico, would have desired American recognition in the normal course of
                    diplomatic events, but the price he was willing to pay indicated desperation, not normality.
                    Obregón would pay all rightful claims that American citizens had against Mexico and place
                    all differences with the 
                        United States
                     before an arbitration commission should these conditions be demanded in return for
                        recognition.64 The Mexican president, whose country was still in the throes
                    of revolution, knew that he could not expect favorable treatment from the Republican
                    President-elect. While spending a few weeks on the 
                        Texas
                     border, Harding refused to consider a proposal to meet General Obregón. He
                    also issued an ominous warning: "I like to think of an America whose citizens are ever
                    seeking the greater development and enlarged resources and widened influences of the Republic, and I
                    like to think of a government which protects its citizens wherever they are."65
            
            Harding could not have made a more satisfying statement for Henry Lane Wilson. The former ambassador
                    could foresee a change in those policies which he considered so dangerous to American business, and
                    he could be pleased with the part he had played in the seven-year struggle against the Democratic
                    President. He had helped build a viable Republican alternative to President Wilson's
                    Mexican policy through his opinions, which were based on his experience in that country, and his
                    eagerness to serve his party. Although Mexico was not as important an issue as the League of
                    Nations, it struck a responsive chord in those who disliked President Wilson's idealistic
                    policies. Also, it was an issue upon which Republicans could agree. Henry Lane Wilson had
                    capitalized on and indeed exemplified the frustration and lack of understanding of events in Mexico.
                    Now the Republicans had regained control of America's foreign policy and, he believed,
                    would return the country to the days of Roosevelt and Taft.
            For Henry Lane Wilson, the election of 1920 marked the height of his influence in Republican party
                    policy making. Although Harding and his foreign policy managers, notably Secretary of State Charles
                    Evans Hughes, attempted to undo what they perceived as errors in Woodrow Wilson's foreign
                    policy, they were never able to return Mexico to the days of Porfirio Díaz. They
                    gradually began to understand that Mexico had 
                  
                     64 "Mexico's Efforts for Recognition," 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Times Current History, XIII (December, 1920), 460-61.
                  
                            65
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     undergone great social upheaval in the past two decades. The
                    leaders who followed Huerta manifested an increasing degree of nationalism that Americans could not
                    ignore. Wiser men than Henry Lane Wilson thus began in the 1920s to rewrite American policy toward
                    Mexico. They sought compromise and understanding. Instead of sending troops into Mexico, as Henry
                    Lane Wilson demanded, in response to Mexico's nationalization of oil and other mineral
                    rights as prescribed under the Mexican Constitution of 1917, Republican negotiators hammered out a
                    solution with the Mexican government agreeable to both sides. To improve 
                        United States
                    -Mexican relations, the personable and sympathetic Dwight W. Morrow was sent to Mexico
                    as a goodwill ambassador in 1927. Through his friendly attitude as well as honest bargaining, Morrow
                    considerably improved relations between the two nations.66
            
            The business-oriented Republican Calvin Coolidge, not the idealistic Democrat Woodrow Wilson,
                    determined a course of understanding instead of threats in dealing with Mexico because it made good
                    economic sense. The old party of Dollar Diplomacy was formulating a plan that foreshadowed the Good
                    Neighbor Policy.67 Republicans no longer sought the counsels of Henry Lane
                    Wilson. As a reward for his services, Harding and Coolidge both considered him for ambassadorships
                    to 
                        Italy
                     and Turkey, but for various reasons, including Harding's unexpected death,
                    nothing came of these proposals.68 Wilson suffered a paralyzing stroke in 1927
                    and, although he survived another five years, they were barren years compared to his influence a
                    decade and half earlier.
            
               
                  66 Bryce Wood, The Making of the Good Neighbor Policy (
                            New York
                        , 1961), 21-23; Thomas A. Bailey, A Diplomatic History of the American
                            People (
                            New York
                        , 1958), 680; John D. Hicks, Republican Ascendancy, 1921-1933 (
                            New York
                        , 1960), 156-57.
               
                  67 Wood, Making of the Good Neighbor Policy, 18-21,
                        121-22, 163-65, 203-59; Samuel Flagg Bemis, The Latin American Policy of the 
                                United States
                            : An Historical Interpretation (
                            New York
                        , 1943), 215-18.
               
                  68
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Star, March 11, April 23, 1925; Dictionary of American
                        Biography, XX, 325; Wilson to Taft, August 4, 20, 1923, December 30, 1924, Taft to Wilson,
                        August 14, 1923, Series 3, General Correspondence, Taft Papers.
            
         
         
         
            A Note on Steel Shavings: Family Histories of the Calumet Region
            
                    James B. Lane⋆
               
                
            The fifth annual issue of Steel Shavings magazine, published in July, 1979, and
                    subtitled "Families of the Calumet Region During the World War II Years,
                    1941-1945," contains thirty-two historical sketches as well as pictorial essays and
                    excerpts from such local newspapers as the Gary Post-Tribune, the 
                        Hammond
                    
                    Times, and the Chesterton Tribune. The war years were a critical
                    period for the people of the Calumet Region, not only because of the tumultuous international events
                    but also because of the effect that the conflict had on their own lives. The articles in volume five
                    of Steel Shavings examine the Calumet home front with particular emphasis on the
                    social habits and changing lifestyles of its citizenry. They deal with such topics as civil defense
                    "brownouts," rationing procedures, "Gold Star" mothers, Junior
                    Commandos, scrap-iron drives, black market profiteering, Eisenhower jackets, leg make-up, zoot
                    suiters, jitterbuggers, and singing patriotic songs in movie theaters or sitting around the radio in
                    the parlor.
            Residents of the Calumet Region underwent experiences which in some ways were unique and in other
                    instances typified America during World War II. For some families the war boom meant greater
                    economic security than during the 1930s; but it was also a time of shock. Michael
                    Boskovich's father Frank stated that those years constituted "a time to
                    forget"; yet most people interviewed vividly remembered their reactions to Pearl Harbor,
                    President Franklin D. Roosevelt's death, Hiroshima, and V-J Day. For example, James P.
                    Navarro wrote: "Mother had just finished washing her hair on August 14, 1945, when she
                    heard the shouts of joy in her house. [
                        Broadway
                    ] was literally jammed with people…. There 
                  
                     ⋆ James B. Lane is associate professor of history, Indiana
                            University, Northwest, Gary. He is the author of "City of the
                                Century": A History of Gary, Indiana (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1978).
               
                    
                    
                  D. E. WILKES AND FAMILY (1976): GARY MILLWORKER, GROCER,
                                CARPENTER, AND MECHANIC.
                  
                  Photo by Gary S. Wilk.
               
                     were tears of joy and tears of sadness, realizing that many
                    loved ones killed in action would never come home. Airplanes were flying overhead, and firecrackers
                    were bursting in the air. People danced in the streets and kissed one another. It truly was a
                    memorable day" (p. 39).
            
               Steel Shavings was founded at Indiana University Northwest in Gary in 1975 in order
                    to publish worthy family histories written by university students concerning the history of Lake and
                    Porter counties. These portraits of common people's social, economic, educational, ethnic,
                    and political experiences comprise a series of intimate community studies. Because the Calumet
                    Region includes industrial cities, small towns, and even rural areas, the sketches cover a wide
                    range of cultures. Assigning a family history project is a practical method in teaching not only
                    local history but other courses as well. The example of Steel Shavings has
                    inspired a number of similar family-awareness projects in area high schools. English and social
                    studies teachers have reported that even students with below-average writing skills have excelled at
                    this type of assignment.
            The initial volume of Steel Shavings dealt with a single city, Gary, and included
                    articles on such urban institutions as the police and fire departments, the public schools,
                    nationality clubs, and churches. Volume two featured ten articles on ethnic families who had
                    uprooted themselves from such places as Yugoslavia, 
                        Greece
                    , Mexico, 
                  Puerto Rico, Poland
               , and the American South. The process of adjustment was difficult
                    and painful for all, although some managed it more successfully than others.
            The 1977 issue, subtitled "Families of the Calumet Region During the Depression of the
                    1930s," focused on efforts to combat the economic hardships which threatened jobs, homes,
                    aspirations, and the very survival of certain families. The Depression was so severe and
                    long-lasting that it fundamentally affected people's thoughts and habits and left a variety
                    of invisible scars on those who lived through it. As contributor Sandy Blomeyer wrote:
                    "These were times when a young child took a wagon to a "Relief Depot,"
                    and a teenager read and heard of distant lands but was unable to obtain sufficient gasoline to drive
                    to 
                        Crown Point
                    . These were also times for learning. The insecurity of life taught my father the
                    necessity of independence and self-reliance" (p. 5). Debbie Terpstra's article
                    concentrated on a child's joyless Christmas: "Ann tore off the wrappings [of her
                    lone present] and pulled out a plain brown jumper 
                    
                  
                     SUNDAY AFTERNOON, U. S. STEEL, GARY WORKS, 1940
               
                     with puffed sleeves. She was shocked, not only because it was
                    not the coveted pink dress but because it was so ugly. It came to her than that things were much
                    worse than she had realized" (p. 6). In the same issue E. Craig Turpin related efforts of
                    his Uncle Zeb to obtain coal and food: "There was no such thing as stale bread in those
                    days [Zeb recalled]. We even picked the mold off and ate it. We would go behind the butcher shop and
                    pick orange peels out of the garbage and eat them. We were so hungry one time that when my father
                    brought, home a bag of flour, we ripped the bag open and ate it just like that" (p. 40).
            In contrast to this solemn motif, volume four of Steel Shavings, subtitled
                    "Cruisin' the Region in the Fifties," had a somewhat nostalgic tone.
                    Student articles and photo essays provide glimpses into the Gary Golden Anniversary Jubilee, the 
                        Hammond
                     Centennial, and various high school reminiscences. More somber topics included
                    hardships imposed by the 1959 steel strike, the Whiting explosion at Standard Oil, the local
                    dimensions of the Red Scare, and the enduring realities of racism.
            Future volumes of Steel Shavings will deal with work experiences in the Region,
                    with race-relations during the 1960s, with the era of the "Golden 20s," and with
                    pioneer portraits of town builders. By the mid-1980s it might be possible to prepare an issue
                    entitled "Family Biographies of the 1970s."
            Publication costs for Steel Shavings have been met in several ways. The goal of
                    self-sufficiency has been obtained without becoming dependent on a single source of funding. Several
                    Indiana University Northwest administrative units have provided funds in return for copies which
                    they distributed to interested people. Area businesses and service clubs have donated money and in
                    turn have received multiple copies of issues. And the magazine is on sale for two dollars per issue
                    (half price for students) at the university bookstore or through the history department. Broadening
                    the base of patrons has enabled circulation to rise to 1,100 copies, which has reduced the unit cost
                    to approximately $1.50 per issue. The size of each issue has steadily grown, and
                    community interest has increased to the extent that the supply of the first two Steel
                        Shavings issues is almost gone.
            As Steel Shavings editors Ronald D. Cohen and James B. Lane wrote, students until
                    recently learned remarkably little about the history of their own communities. Too often local  history had been the private preserve of antiquarians sometimes
                    largely concerned with glorifying their ancestors. Steel Shavings is dedicated to
                    redressing part of that imbalance by taking seriously the lives that common people have led, long
                    ago and within recent memory.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews Indiana Letters: Abstracts of Letters from Missionaries on the Indiana
                        Frontier to the American Home Missionary Society, 1824-1893. 3 volumes. By L. C. Rudolph,
                    W. W. Wimberly, and Thomas W. Clayton, with the collaboration of June L. Conger. (
                        Ann Arbor
                    : University Microfilms International, 1979. Pp. ix, 1244. Index to abstracts.
                    Clothbound, 8¢" ¢ 11", $74.50, 6"
                    ¢ 9", $71.50; paperbound, 6" ¢ 11",
                    $56.50.)
            In the field of American studies no chapter is potentially more interesting and revealing than the
                    story of religious development on the early frontier. As the territories which became 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                  Illinois, Iowa, Michigan
               , and 
                        Wisconsin
                     were settled, Christians in the East intensely wished to have ministers working
                    fulltime as soon as possible in the newly formed western communities. To this end they formed the
                    American Home Missionary Society (AHMS) in 1826 as a merger of several voluntary groups concerned
                    about the religious needs of the American West. Between 1824 and 1893 there ensued an extended
                    correspondence between those persons working as agents in the field and the home office in 
                        New York City
                    .
            An abstract of the Indiana letters—that portion of the correspondence involving
                    missionaries and ministers in pioneer communities and settlements in Indiana—is now
                    available. In 1975 the Microfilming Corporation of America published in complete form all of the
                    original letters in the American Home Missionary Society Archives. The bulk of this publication is
                    quite large. To make the material more accessible this present project was conceived and carried
                    forward. These abstracts provide a handy tool to assist the serious scholar. In the lengthy,
                    sometimes tedious, and often verbose correspondence of dedicated church leaders working with the
                    AHMS one can often find important descriptions of methods, personalities, and methods in primitive
                    community life on the frontier.
            These abstracts are a joint effort between Indiana University and a number of agencies, including the
                    Amistad Research Center, University Microfilms International, and the Indiana Committee for
                    Humanities. Under the general direction of L. C. Rudolph abstracts of the Indiana letters have been
                    prepared. They are succinct, well done, and useful. Abstracts 1-758 are by W. W. Wimberly; 759-2538
                    by L. C. Rudolph; 2539-3886 by Thomas W. Clayton; and 3887-5046 by June L. Conger. Rudolph and
                    Conger prepared the index.
            
            While the serious scholar will still find it necessary to turn to the letters themselves, the
                    abstracts and index will serve as a valuable tool and will save many hours of research time. In some
                    ways it may seem an unnecessary digression to refer to an abstract only in turn to be directed to
                    the original source. However, when one considers the great volume of correspondence
                    involved—hundreds of letters were written between 1824 and 1893—it can be seen
                    clearly that in this instance "the long way home is the shortest in the end."
            Lester G. McAllister, Christian Theological Seminary, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               The Trans-Appalachian Frontier: People, Societies, and Institutions, 1775-1850.
                    By Malcolm J. Rohrbough. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1978. Pp. xiv, 444. Maps, notes, tables, bibliography, index.
                    $17.50.)
            Like C. Wright Mills or William H. Whyte describing the lives of the "white-collar
                    people" who pioneered suburbia, Malcolm J. Rohrbough suggests that the social history of
                    the trans-Appalachian frontier was a history without events. The individual lives of early settlers
                    were filled with anecdote, to be sure, but even these may be subsumed under general patterns
                    dictated by the cycle of the seasons in a society and an economy based on agriculture.
                    "Life for most of the settlers on the first frontier [of the 1780s and 1790s] was basic and
                    close to nature; its unifying characteristic was physical labor" (p. 62), but so it was
                    also for the pioneers of the Old Northwest, the Old Southwest, the Trans-
                        Mississippi
                     West, and of those "enduring frontiers" in 
                  Michigan, Florida
               , and 
                        Arkansas
                    . The endless cycle of work, turn the soil, plant, harvest, and survive—or
                    starve—thus provided the settlers with an experience more potent, Rohrbough suggests,
                    than the alienation consequent to emigration that Oscar Handlin saw as the origin of American
                    individualism and cooperation. Although alienation and emigration were also part of the life of
                    these native-born, Anglo-Saxon, and Protestant westering migrants, theirs was an experience which
                    was no experience, in that it taught them to do only what they already knew how to do so that life
                    on a new farm and life on an old farm were often indistinguishable.
            The result in personal behavior—which is what scholars test conceptions of national
                    character against—was the creation of a distinct society of non-yeoman farmers in the 
                        Ohio
                     and Mississippi valleys, lumpen landowners, self-sufficient
                    dependents.  Shy and uncomfortable in the presence of easterners
                    and city-dwellers, and especially women; contemptuous of the mannerly if they were ministers or
                    schoolmasters but deferential to the point of obsequiousness toward the grandees who were their
                    "betters"; with a tendency toward violence bred not of individualism but of
                    inadequate social experience and manifested in duelling by the "planters,"
                    brawling by the rest, and intemperance by all—these were the
                    nineteenth-century's silent majority, mute victims of life itself. "In a manner
                    strongly reminiscent of Marc Bloch's description of the age of feudalism, the early
                    settlers across the mountains were surrounded by powerful forces—human and
                    natural—that they could not control" (p. 18), Rohrbough remarks. And he suggests
                    the manner in which dependence upon a market economy, the vagaries of American foreign and domestic
                    policy after 1820, and the incomprehensibility of an institutional network controlled from county
                    courthouse, state capital, or Congress provided specificity but no focus to their anxiety in the
                    years after the "Indian danger" was past.
            This work is thus an anti-frontiersman-as-hero book. It is as far as one can come from Theodore
                    Roosevelt's Winning of the West or Frederick Jackson Turner's
                    revision of that vision into the needed late nineteenth-century synthesis of a coherent and
                    comprehensible, useful past, in which pre-capitalist and capitalist modes of thought and behavior
                    were identified as variations on a single theme. It is as far also from such Whiggish-liberal
                    transformations of the Rooseveltian or Turnerian visions as have been offered in recent years by
                    those who would save appearances by creating new heroes in the West—most notably the work
                    of Richard Wade, whose Urban Frontier, read first as a corrective to Turner and
                    bearing the imprimatur of Arthur M. Schlesinger, Sr., himself, appears to Rohrbough as historically
                    inaccurate and ideologically inappropriate. It was towns, not cities, which provided the
                    "urban" experience of westerners, according to Rohrbough, and it was people not
                    institutions which lay at the heart of the westward movement. Indeed, Rohrbough continually argues
                    that the institutional network, designed by eighteenth-and nineteenth-century progenitors of the
                    meddlesome planners of our own time, was always more complex than necessary and more fully drawn
                    than the realities of a simple society permitted, and he is sometimes amazed and always distressed
                    at the regular interference of government in every aspect of pioneer life.
            Rohrbough's argument will not discredit the attempts of others to examine how institutions
                    worked on the frontier, how  relationships formed between cities
                    and towns and hinterlands, or how life in the new lands differed from life—albeit rural
                    life—in the predominantly rural seaboard states. But all such inquiry in the future will
                    have to begin by asking whether there is in fact a history of the frontier as such, distinct from
                    the well recognized and event-filled history of westward expansion. By his own careful refusal to
                    concern himself with these issues directly, Rohrbough's discussion of frontier society
                    forces the reader to confront the larger question, not simply of the place of the frontier in
                    American history but of how to organize the past and hence how to define the present and future. He
                    has written a book which all historians, and perhaps all Americans, must find both compelling and
                    dangerous, hence welcome.
            Henry D. Shapiro, University of 
                     Cincinnati, Cincinnati
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               The Delawares: A Critical Bibliography. By C. A. Weslager. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, for the Newberry Library, 1978. Pp. viii, 84. Index.
                    Paperbound, $4.95.)
            
               The Cherokees: A Critical Bibliography. By Raymond D. Fogelson. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, for the New-berry Library, 1978. Pp. x, 98. Index.
                    Paperbound, $4.95.)
            
               Indian Missions: A Critical Bibliography. By James P. Ronda and James Axtell. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, for the Newberry Library, 1978. Pp. xi, 85. Index.
                    Paperbound, $4.95.)
            
               The Indians of the Northeast: A Critical Bibliography. By Elisabeth Tooker. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, for the Newberry Library, 1978. Pp. xi, 77. Index.
                    Paperbound, $4.95.)
            These four volumes are recent additions to the Newberry Library's continuing series of
                    Native American bibliographies. Although all four should prove useful to anthropologists,
                    historians, and librarians, some will be more valuable than others.
            Of particular interest is The Cherokees, by Raymond D. Fogelson, and Indian Missions, coauthored by James P. Ronda and James Axtell. Fogelson's essay,
                    well-balanced between history and anthropology, carefully examines the profusion of scholarly
                    writing upon the Cherokees. Fogelson surveys the major facets of Cherokee history and culture,
                    critically evaluating  those articles or monographs that provide
                    information or interpretative data upon his subject. His essay is particularly effective since he
                    illustrates that certain widely held misconceptions—such as that the Cherokees of the Old
                    South treated their slaves more kindly than did whites, or that most modern 
                        Oklahoma
                     Cherokees are assimilated—have been proven false by recent scholarship.
                    Fogelson also indicates that certain topics in Cherokee history and culture need more investigation
                    and offers some suggestions for further study.
            
               Indian Missions, a well-written volume, is the most analytical of the four. Ronda
                    and Axtell offer an excellent comparison of the Protestant and Catholic mission efforts. They point
                    out that the Catholic priests, unburdened by home or family, held advantages over their Protestant
                    counterparts. The priests' reliance upon ceremony, familiarity with foreign languages, and
                    willingness to offer assistance in secular matters gave them greater access to the tribal
                    communities. The authors also carefully examine the mission ideology, indicating that many
                    nineteenth-century missionaries were so nationalistic that they demanded that tribesmen accept white
                    cultural values as a prerequisite to conversion. In conclusion, they argue that the missions were
                    more successful in transforming Indian society than in converting Indian souls. Ronda and
                    Axtell's essay provides a critical discussion of the major literature of the mission
                    effort, including a section focusing upon the Indian response. Indian Missions
                    will find much use among historians.
            C. A. Weslager's The Delawares is a more specialized study than either of
                    the above. Since the scholarly literature upon the Delawares is small, Weslager includes articles
                    concentrating upon more limited areas of 
                        Delaware
                     history and culture. Readers interested in traditional 
                        Delaware
                     culture and in Indian-white relations in the northern Chesapeake region during the
                    seventeenth century will discover the volume to be quite valuable, while serious students of 
                        Delaware
                     history should find Weslager's inclusion of published primary source material
                    (the 
                  
                            Pennsylvania
                         Archives, etc.) useful but not comprehensive. But as Weslager's essay
                    indicates, most scholars have written about the Delawares during their occupancy of the eastern
                    states. The tribe in the West has been the subject of much less investigation, and readers
                    interested in 
                        Delaware
                     history in Indiana, 
                  Missouri,
                            Kansas
               , and 
                        Oklahoma
                     will find Weslager's volume less valuable. Such an analysis is not intended as
                    a criticism of Weslager's efforts, but merely reflects the current state of 
                        Delaware
                     scholarship.
            
            In Indians of the Northeast, Elisabeth Tooker surveys the historical and
                    anthropological literature of the tribes "from Newfoundland to 
                        North Carolina
                     and from the Atlantic Coast to the Upper Great Lakes" (p. 1). Unfortunately,
                    the region is so large and the number of tribes so great that Tooker is forced to omit many
                    important references. Her discussion of anthropological literature—especially those
                    references focusing upon the New 
                        England
                     tribes and the Iroquoian speakers— seems adequate, but her coverage of
                    monographs and articles about the central Algonquian tribes needs more development. Due to the
                    breadth of the study, Tooker mentions or briefly describes a reference but often fails to analyze
                    it. It seems questionable if an adequate survey of the historical and anthropological literature of
                    such a vast area can be capsulized in thirty-eight pages.
            R. David Edmunds, 
                  
                            Texas
                         Christian University, Fort Worth
            
         
         
            
               The John Hunt Memoirs: Early Years of the Maumee Basin, 1812-1835. Edited by
                    Richard J. Wright. (Maumee, 
                        Ohio
                    : Maumee Valley Historical Society, [1979]. Pp. viii, 94. Illustrations, maps, notes.
                    Clothbound, $11.20; paperbound, $7.40.)
            The early development of the Maumee Valley and southeastern 
                        Michigan
                     is so often viewed through official documents that a personal history is always a
                    worthwhile find. When properly edited and purged of errors in details and dates, the reminiscences
                    of an early citizen can add depth, color, and a wealth of appealing anecdotes to the history of a
                    region. So it is with the memoirs of John Elliott Hunt (1798-1877). Hunt, son of a prominent
                    military officer, touches upon events relevant to northern Indiana, 
                        Ohio
                    , and southeastern 
                        Michigan
                    . While his greatest emphasis is on the War of 1812, the author also describes the later
                    peaceful development of the lower Maumee.
            The memoirs have been carefully edited by Richard J. Wright of Bowling Green State University. His
                    notes are copious, especially for the earlier years. Hunt's memory for details had dimmed
                    somewhat by the time he put his remembrances on paper in the early 1870s. Despite Wright's
                    corrections, Hunt comes across as a man with vivid memories of a youth which coincided with that of
                    the region.
            The anecdotes are particularly enjoyable. Hunt traveled with Brigidier General William
                    Hull's army and spent much of  the War of 1812 in
                    British-occupied 
                        Detroit
                    . After the war he settled in Maumee, 
                        Ohio
                    . He was deeply involved in the Indian trade and was well liked by the local tribes.
                    Hunt's memories of American and British officers give the reader a lively view of their
                    personalities. His adventures when forced to seek lodging with a Canadian cutthroat named Ward are
                    hair raising. Throughout his narrative, Hunt is generally sympathetic to the Indians. Other parts of
                    his memoirs reveal more common frontier attitudes to native Americans. There is pathos, however, in
                    his scenes of the rapid deterioration of their culture after the War of 1812.
            The book is attractively printed. The many illustrations are generally well-chosen, but the color
                    plates do not seem to have reproduced particularly well. A few errors have crept in, such as the
                    identification of a sketch of William Whistler as his father, Major John Whistler (p. 47). These are
                    few, however, and the publication is a worthwhile addition to the literature of the early Maumee
                    Valley and 
                        Detroit
                    .
            Brian Leigh Dunnigan, Old Fort Niagara Association, Youngstown, N.Y.
            
         
         
            
               The Plains Across: The Overland Emigrants and the Trans-
                            Mississippi
                         West, 1840-60. By John D. Unruh, Jr. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1979. Pp. xviii, 565. Illustrations, maps, tables, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $22.50.)
            For more than a century, Americans have been fascinated by the romance, the drama, the poignancy, of
                    the epic overland adventure of the 1840s, 1850s, and 1860s. The overland experience has been traced
                    in hundreds of trail diaries and reminiscences and in a number of popular and scholarly trail
                    histories. But, as John D. Unruh points out in his introduction, there are few
                    "comprehensive analytical and interpretive" accounts of the trail and its impact
                    on American life and character (p. 4). Unruh has sought to fill that void for the 
                        California
                    -
                        Oregon
                     trail. In this exhaustive study, begun as a doctoral dissertation at the University of 
                        Kansas
                    , he has structured a comprehensive synthesis that moves far beyond earlier studies and
                    hypothesizes a "concept of change through time" (p. 27) that offers new insights
                    and perspectives about the overland emigration.
            It is impossible to summarize this impressive work (over 500 oversize pages of text and notes) in a
                    short review. Every aspect of the overland trail has been covered. Beginning with a  review essay on trail literature and histories, Unruh proceeds to
                    document public opinion about overlanders and the trail, to discuss motivations, emigrant
                    interaction, emigrant-Indian relations, the role of the Mormon "Halfway House,"
                    and to examine the impact of both the federal government and private enterprise on trail
                    development. Of particular merit is Unruh's analysis of the federal services "as a
                    significant nationalizing force and as an important factor in the growth and justification of
                    federal power" (p. 400).
            Unruh also succeeds in shattering many of the myths about "The Wagon Train" which
                    have been perpetuated by Hollywood, television, and the popular press. For example, he points out
                    that no more than 4 percent of emigrant deaths on the 
                        California
                    -
                        Oregon
                     trail were attributable to Indians. In fact, during the first twenty years of trail
                    travel Indians provided overlanders with needed information and supplies and "should
                    henceforth be regarded more positively as helpful assistants…." (p. 386).
                    Similarly, Unruh challenges other prevailing media stereotypes of the trail experience and
                    underlines the need for "an awareness that changing travel conditions must be complemented
                    with an appreciation of the long-neglected factors of cooperation and community" which
                    existed along the trail (p. 385).
            Until the publication of The Plains Across, the best trail studies were George
                    Stewart's undocumented The 
                            California
                         Trail and Merrill Mattes' Great Platte River Road
                    which dealt only with the trail along the South Platte as far as Fort Laramie. Unruh overcomes both
                    these limitations and provides, for the first time, a thorough, well-documented study of the entire
                    northern trail. He combines crisp interpretation with full, rich detail, and the result is a very
                    readable as well as an informative volume. It is indeed tragic that Unruh died prior to the
                    publication of his work. The profession is richer for his contribution and the poorer for not having
                    the opportunity to see more of his work. He might have provided the southern trail study which is
                    still needed if the story of overlanding is to be completely understood.
            Sandra L. Myres, University of 
                            Texas
                        , Arlington
            
         
         
         
            
               Women and Men on the Overland Trail. By John Mack Faragher. (
                        New Haven
                    : Yale University Press, 1979. Pp. xiii, 281. Map, appendixes, tables, notes, selected
                    bibliography, index. $17.50.)
            The overland trek to the Far West has so thoroughly captured the imagination of Americans that its
                    reality has become almost obliterated by legend. In Women and Men on the Overland
                    Trail, John Mack Faragher attempts to explode one of the traditional stereotypes, that of trail
                    men driving wagons and fighting Indians while trail women rode in the wagons and cared for the
                    children of the party. Rather, Faragher argues, trail men had frequent opportunities for
                    companionship, diversion, and sport while the women were constant toilers at an unending number of
                    chores.
            Bringing his own admittedly contemporary, feminist perspective to this study, Faragher endeavors to
                    describe in detail sex role differentiation between men and women first at home on their midwestern
                    farms and then on the trail after they undertook migration. In both cases he finds that women worked
                    harder and longer than men; that they seldom if ever received assistance or sympathy from their men;
                    and that they were effectively cut off from socializing, exercising power, or enlarging their own
                    opportunities. Men, on the other hand, engaged in limited amounts of work relative to women; were
                    concerned primarily with their own tasks and business affairs; and were able to socialize widely,
                    control all avenues of power, and utilize any available opportunities.
            If these portraits seem too harshly drawn, it is perhaps because Faragher's model for the
                    midwestern farm family is extracted almost exclusively from several southern 
                        Illinois
                     counties. These areas were settled by traditional, patriarchal, southern whites whose
                    values and life-styles were not truly representative of the four states—Indiana,
                            
                  Illinois, Iowa
               , and 
                        Missouri
                    —that comprise Faragher's Midwest.
            An additional problem with these portrayals stems from Faragher's reading of trail
                    documents. In Lucy Rutledge Cooke's case, for instance, Faragher cites her early letters as
                    an example of a woman who regretted leaving home. He did not, however, include her later statements
                    regarding "the wonders of travel," or the luxuries which her "dear
                    husband" purchased as gifts for her at Fort Laramie. He similarly neglects Helen
                    Carpenter's references to the men of the party helping with both the cooking and washing as
                    well as 
                        Virginia
                     Ivins comment that, "Upon the whole we were having a rather good  time; were all well, were becoming inured to privations, and things
                    were moving along quite satisfactorily."
            This is not to suggest that women had an easy life on either the farmstead or the westward trail but
                    only that the picture was not quite as bleak for women nor as bright for men as Faragher presents
                    it. The book is a smoothly written expansion of a 1975 article in Feminist Studies
                    and the author's 1977 dissertation at Yale which pulls together some significant data on
                    the overland trail episode, but it should be read cautiously.
            Glenda Riley, University of Northern 
                            Iowa
                        , Cedar Falls
            
         
         
            
               Chariot of Fire: Religion and the Beecher Family. By Marie Caskey. (
                        New Haven
                    : Yale University Press, 1978. Pp. xv, 442. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $25.00.)
            
               Henry Ward Beecher: Spokesman for a Middle-Class America. By Clifford E. Clark,
                    Jr. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1978. Pp. 288. Notes, illustrations, note on sources, index. $12.95.)
            If the Beechers were alive today, they would live in 
                        California
                     and lecture on Gestalt psychology. As it was, they were Victorian preachers, some using
                    the pulpit, others the novel, tract, and classroom. All of them expounded the joy of salvation
                    through the Bible, not through primal scream. Nevertheless, the Beechers were spiritual ancestors of
                    our age of narcissism. Despite fame and impressive achievement, they loved nothing better than the
                    joyous misery of being Beechers, preoccupied as they were with identity and angst.
                    A trail of heresy and gentle scandal followed them as if unconventionality added a welcome pungency
                    to their name.
            Three obsessions gripped them: their relation to God; to each other; and to the world audience they
                    craved. They almost seemed to worship not the Lord, but the Madonna Roxanna, mother of the first
                    seven of the eleven children. Her deathbed wish about the children making known God's mercy
                    lay heavily on all Beecher consciences. There was also a singular resemblance between the
                    Beecher's God and Lyman, Abraham of the tribe. A New 
                        England
                     Congregationalist of unflagging evangelical drive, Lyman at seventy once traveled
                    literally day and night on horseback through wilderness Indiana to preach at son Charles'
                    installation. Though Lyman endowed them all with the impulse to seek Truth, he provided a tortuous
                    roadmap for  getting there. Nearly all his progeny inherited his
                    "hypo" and other signs of severe depression that took such forms as dyspepsia,
                    alcoholism, neuralgia, insomnia, and nervous breakdown. Also they married partners with
                    complementary symptoms as if to insure that mirrors reflecting their own soulful distresses were
                    never in short supply. They strove to be different from each other, but ended up being commonly
                    eccentric. Amidst all the neurotic debris, there was, however, a steady faith in Christ, though each
                    Beecher had a curiously different vision shaped from the compulsion to piety that all of them
                    shared.
            With such able portrayers of Beecherdom as Edmund Wilson, W. G. McLoughlin, and K. K. Sklar to guide,
                    scholars have come to know this family as well as the Adamses. Yet, the two books under review
                    greatly expand our understanding. Clifford E. Clark, Jr., provides an appropriately sympathetic life
                    of Henry Ward. Marie Caskey offers a study of the religious journeys that various Beechers undertook
                    through life. Clark's objective is the more traditional, since he concentrates less on
                    psychology and more on Henry's active, "romantic Christianity" and the
                    reform mentality arising from it. Centered on the redemptive Christ, Henry Ward Beecher's
                    benign theology served to justify cautious, fair-minded, bourgeois reform. It presaged the Social
                    Gospel, Clark correctly maintains, and, one might add, Christian "relevance" in
                    today's mainline, liberal churches as well. Beecher's opportunism, though not
                    denied, is seen in the context of finding what would actually work amid the storms of sectionalism,
                    war, reconstruction, and postwar money-getting. Thus, liberty, preached the 
                        Plymouth
                     Church minister of 
                        Brooklyn
                    , had to be posed against "the general needs of society" (p. 168).
                    Likewise, he worried lest freedmen be seduced into indolence by an overindulgent government, a
                    sentiment appropriate to the complacency of the day. Yet, the author does not delve very far into
                    the Beecher-Tilton sex imbroglio or its ramifications. (Caskey omits the episode altogether.) One
                    wishes to know more, but we must await Richard E. Sewell's forthcoming study.
            Though a more difficult book to read, Caskey's volume is the more provocative. She refrains
                    from overt psychologizing in favor of a heavy theological fare that leadens the layman's
                    eyes. Nevertheless, her chapters on the lesser Beechers are sensitive and brilliant, providing rare
                    insights into family emotions. On Catharine, Henry Ward, and Harriet Beecher Stowe, others have done
                    better than Caskey, but she has shown  the interaction of all
                    the Beechers in novel ways. Her study of Thomas Beecher, for instance, is skillful and moving, not
                    because his pastorate at Elmira, 
                        New York
                    , mattered much to Christendom but because he had detached a part of himself from the
                    others. So ambivalent was he toward the family that he refused to give them the satisfaction of
                    seeing him mourn in conventional ways when his death-haunted bride expired in childbirth. Instead,
                    he insisted on his joy and hers. No wonder an angry melancholia that remained unself-recognized
                    carried him toward half-humorous cynicism. He loved, yet could not forgive earnest brother Henry
                    Ward for his ministerial fame and enthusiasms, writing in unVictorian irony, "We
                    … are lost children in a mazy wilderness of life. Let us be gentle, humble,
                    forgiving…. By and by our elder brother will come to lead us to our home" (p.
                    283). Henry Ward, it seemed, had all the answers.
            Caskey and Clark have both thoroughly mastered the Beechers' theological sources of
                    inspiration and explained their convictions with clarity and precision. Their books impressively
                    reveal the family's attitudes about reform and other themes but most of all their
                    jealousies and dependencies upon each other, as if the struggle for differentiation among so many
                    could cease only at death. For those partners marrying into this Christian hothouse, life could not
                    have been very pleasant. Yet such intellectual reforming sticks as Harriet's Calvin Stowe
                    and Isabella's doting John Hooker were chosen precisely because they could be so easily
                    crammed into the unceasing dramas of hypochondria and Yankee rumination. As Caskey shows, almost all
                    of them took up spiritualism to reach dead Beechers—another way to commune
                    narcissistically among themselves.
            Just as Beechers loved to write and preach, so too have scholars, as these handsome volumes attest,
                    made them a thriving industry. Their appeal lay chiefly in their enviable capacity to demonstrate
                    conviction. But for all the differences between their era and our skeptical times, the Beechers
                    touch us because they too found themselves the ultimate dramas, their souls' condition the
                    most fascinating of topics. Caskey and Clark have skillfully reintroduced their readers to their
                    Victorian past, its triumphs and its grand flirtations with the self.
            Bertram Wyatt-
                        Brown
                    , Case Western Reserve University, 
                            Cleveland
                        
               
            
         
         
         
            
               The Southern Federalists, 1800-1816. By James H. Broussard. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1978. Pp. xiii, 438. Notes, tables, maps, bibliography, index.
                    $24.95.)
            During the past quarter century America's first party system has been the focus of a
                    substantial amount of scholarly research. The Southern Federalists, 1800-1816 is
                    the first attempt to chart the history of the Federalist party in the South following the election
                    of 1800. For reasons that remain unclear 
                        Maryland
                     has been excluded. This is particularly unfortunate since Jacob Wagner's 
                        Baltimore
                    
                    Federal Republican was the most virulent Federalist newspaper of the age. Too,
                    Robert Goodloe Harper, Alexander Conte Hanson, and other leading southern Federalists came from that
                    state. Nevertheless, this look at Federalism in 
                        Virginia
                    , the Carolinas, and 
                        Georgia
                     remains a useful undertaking.
            For the first half of his book James H. Broussard tells a familiar tale. Unable to respond
                    appropriately to the rapid political and social change that characterized Jeffersonian America,
                    southern Federalists clung to an outmoded elitism, railed against Republican hypocrisy, showed no
                    appreciation for the role of the minority in a two-party system, and, even when faced with
                    extinction, refused to organize politically. To be sure, during the embargo crisis and the War of
                    1812 Federalism enjoyed limited revivals in the South. These rallies were short lived, however, for
                    those who turned in anger to the Federalists found nothing in common with them. Although it is never
                    stated categorically, the evidence presented suggests that little difference existed between
                    southern Federalists and their northern counterparts save that in the South apathy was so
                    overwhelming that it proved impossible to organize statewide Federalist political machines similar
                    to those that existed in a number of northern states.
            Broussard is at his best when narrating the history of southern Federalism at the national and state
                    levels and when recounting election statistics. His handling of significant interpretive issues is
                    disappointing however. For example, after a brief survey of the economic, demographic, and religious
                    possibilities in an attempt to uncover the common denominator that explains the existence of the
                    Federalist party in the South, he grasps at an ideological explanation that will satisfy few. Only
                    one issue united southern Federalists, he argues, fear of 
                        France
                     and her revolution. This view is complemented by a second highly debatable judgment:
                    Federalism in the South had no local roots but focused solely upon national and international  questions. When these issues ceased to pertain after 1815
                    "there was no longer any need for a Federal Party" (p. 179). Individuals then
                    drifted away and the party went into permanent decline. The application of modern social science
                    techniques to these important interpretive questions might perhaps have produced more sound and
                    defensible explanations for the existence of a southern wing of the Federalist party and its final
                    disappearance. But Broussard's traditional methodology has not yielded convincing results.
            Gerard H. Clarfield, University of 
                     Missouri, Columbia
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               Patricide in the House Divided: A Psychological Interpretation of Lincoln and His
                        Age. By George B. Forgie. (
                        New York
                    : W.W. Norton & Company, 1979. Pp. x, 308. Notes, index. $14.95.)
            This title is somewhat misleading. Instead of an avant-garde psychobiography of
                    Abraham Lincoln, George B. Forgie has written an old-fashioned study of themes and materials which
                    were the staples of the discipline of American Studies some ten to fifteen years ago. Lincoln does
                    not figure prominently in the work. To say this is not to condemn the book but to inform the
                    potential reader of its true nature.
            What is meant by the themes and materials of American Studies is the attempt to capture the national
                    "mentality" or "style" of a "generation"
                    (which Forgie calls the "post-heroic generation") and the search for the key to
                    this in "rhetoric," utilizing such materials as obscure baccalaureate addresses,
                    little-used middle-brow periodicals, the stories and novels of Nathaniel Hawthorne and James
                    Fenimore Cooper, and the forgotten oratory of Edward Everett. Forgie attempts to unify his somewhat
                    discursive book by a vaguely psychological theme: the problem of the leaders of the generation which
                    followed that of 
                        Washington
                     and Jefferson was to imitate their virtues without destroying the truly heroic work of
                    America's revolutionary fathers.
            Many of Forgie's particular insights are valuable, and some are downright brilliant. Saving 
                        Mount Vernon
                     from destruction was a symbolic attempt at saving the Union itself. That
                    Hawthorne's "My Kinsman, Major Molineaux" described a healthy ritualistic
                    patricidal act belongs in the brilliant category. So does the view that Hawthorne shows Holgrave in
                        The House of the Seven Gables not to be radical at all, for domesticity
                    completely tames him and makes him the inheritor rather  than
                    the destroyer of his "father's" house. Forgie's interpretation
                    of Cooper's romance The Spy as, among other things, a criticism of the
                    character and motives of George 
                        Washington
                     is wonderfully humorous.
            By contrast, the sections on Lincoln are weak. Analyzing Lincoln's deep depression of 1841,
                    for example, Forgie claims that he suffered from the "Nobel Prize Complex," that
                    is early success bred high ambition and, subsequently, deep depression when success was interrupted.
                    Lincoln, he says, felt "mired in middle-level politics far from the center of important
                    action" (p. 82). Perhaps, but surely Lincoln's broken engagement with Mary Todd on
                    "that fatal first of Jany. '41" deserves more than passing mention. And
                    to cite as proof Lincoln's having "cast his lot with 
                        Springfield
                    , a city that was to be eclipsed by 
                        Chicago
                    " is absurdly anachronistic (p. 82).
            Such weakness is especially ironic, not only in terms of the book's title but also in terms
                    of the psychological nature of Forgie's enterprise. Social psychology exists, all right,
                    but descriptions of whole societies as "regressive" or
                    "patricidal" or "fratricidal" will cause readers to balk. These
                    individual categories do not translate well into social categories, and one's confidence
                    that Forgie is the right person to make such a risky translation is diminished by his inept handling
                    of Lincoln's individual psyche. It is particularly distressing to find that Forgie could
                    write a book about fathers, children, and political loyalty while completely ignoring the most
                    profound mid-nineteenth-century student of nurture, Horace Bushnell.
            Read this diffuse book for its individual insights on literary sensibilities, but do not count on
                    finding its overall thesis useful or even intelligible.
            Mark E. Neely, Jr., Louis A. Warren Lincoln Library and Museum, Fort 
                            Wayne
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Farmers without Farms: Agricultural Tenancy in Nineteenth-Century 
                            Iowa
                        . By Donald L. Winters. (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1978. Pp. xvi, 145. Tables, maps, appendixes, note on sources,
                    index. $15.95.)
            
               
                        Iowa
                    's first half-century provides a case in which to test ideas about farm tenancy
                    as it has been practiced throughout the Midwest. Some ideas about the institution and its causes and
                    consequences are vigorously debated among agricultural economists and historians. A solid
                    contribution to that debate,  this monograph should interest
                    scholars well beyond the boundaries of 
                        Iowa
                    .
            The trouble with much that has been written about mid-western tenancy, according to Donald L.
                    Winters, is that it assumes tenancy to have been the unhappy consequence of a national failure to
                    distribute land democratically. Paul W. Gates and his adherents blame its existence on a federal
                    land policy that allowed speculators to monopolize the soil while farmers were either forced
                    directly into tenancy or fell into it by way of mortgages and foreclosures. Resulting from failure,
                    tenancy produced more failures—inefficient, soil-robbing tenant farmers, doomed to the
                    treadmill of poverty.
            Recent scholars, notably Allan G. Bogue, Seddie Cogswell, and Charles L. Stewart, have criticized
                    that view of tenancy, arguing that it was a rational accommodation to the economic conditions of
                    nineteenth-century prairie farming, especially its growing demand for capital. For many farmers it
                    was a "gateway" (p. 5) to farm ownership through the barrier of rising land
                    values. Winters agrees that tenancy made sense economically, that it was as efficient as owner
                    operation, and that it provided a "gateway" or "ladder" (p. 84)
                    for many farmers.
            The analysis supporting those conclusions is statistical. Farmers are treated as aggregates,
                    according to numbers mined from the manuscript census and from records of leases and mortgages kept
                    in county courthouses. Realizing that "aggregate data are not necessarily a reliable
                    indicator of individual behavior" (p. 79), Winters also cites biographical sketches
                    published in county histories, but even the exceptional individuals so immortalized appear as
                    numbers. Forty-eight percent of them began as tenants; names are attached only to a few quotations
                    from farmers' letters.
            Those rare quotations show that contemporaries understood tenancy much as Winters has learned to
                    understand it. They were clear-sighted people. Farm journalists are cited more frequently for the
                    same purpose. Wallace's Farmer, Country Gentleman, and American Agriculturist published correspondence and editorial statements showing that
                    "farmers and their spokesmen understood, if perhaps imperfectly" (p. 26) the
                    economic factors that they had to confront. Whether journalists, especially those based in 
                        New York
                     state, actually reflected the economic thinking of 
                        Iowa
                     farmers is at least arguable.
            However that may be, Winters is sure that his farmers knew what they were doing. They were not
                    victims of shadowy forces but free decision makers acting on a rational understanding  of economic facts. That is a pleasant idea, offering a sharp contrast
                    between Iowans and the victimized southerners described by Roger L. Ransom and Richard Sutch in One Kind of Freedom (
                        New York
                    , 1977). Racism and poverty clouded reason and freedom in the South; nothing, save a
                    degree of cultural preference for ownership over renting, dulled them in 
                        Iowa
                    . Resting on a few letters, farm journalism, and inferences from behavior, that idea is
                    less demonstrated than assumed in this study. The assumption takes nothing from the book's
                    real merits. Modest and concise, solid and clear, it advances the study of farm tenancy in the
                    Midwest.
            Donld B. Marti, Indiana University, 
                            South Bend
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Family and Population in Nineteenth-Century America. Edited by Tamara K. Hareven
                    and Maris A. Vinovskis. (
                        Princeton
                    : 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1978. Pp. xiv, 250. Notes, tables, index. Clothbound,
                    $25.00; paperbound, $9.75.)
            Books resulting from state-of-the-art conferences face a particular set of pitfalls. The most
                    critical of these is that the book will take so long to appear that the field will have undergone
                    sufficient changes so that what was once avant-garde is out of date before publication. Such is the
                    fate of Tamara Hareven's and Maris A. Vinovskis' Family and
                        Population in Nineteenth-Century America. The essays appearing in the volume were first
                    presented in 1974 at a seminar sponsored by the Mathematical Social Science Board (MSSB) to explore
                    the uses of quantitative methodologies in American family and demographic history. At the time of
                    the conference, the topics raised and arguments advanced stood at the forefront of American family
                    history. By the time of publication, however, research on similar questions had so refined and
                    advanced the level of scholarship that the book's contribution is substantially lessened.
                    This phenomenon is most evident in the volume's lead essay by Richard A. Easterlin, George
                    Alter, and Gretchen Condran. Certainly their hypothesis regarding the relationship between fertility
                    and recency of settlement is an important one. The reception of the argument when it appeared in
                    Easterlin's Journal of American History article in 1976 proved that
                    point. By the publication of this volume in 1978, however, their findings seem dated.
            More serious is the book's weakness in providing exemplary methodologies for American family
                    history. Several other volumes in the MSSB/
                        Princeton
                     series have clearly served that  function, most
                    notably Leo Schnore's volume on urban history and Charles Tilly's on European
                    fertility. The Hareven and Vinovskis volume falls far short of the standards set in those
                    collections. In fact, the underlying methodological theme in Family and Population
                    is perhaps best encapsulated in a footnote found in Howard P. Chudacoff's
                    "Newlyweds and Family Extension." In it Chudacoff explains "I suspect
                    that multiple classification analysis, at this point unfamiliar to me, may more firmly establish the
                    effects of origin, class, and other variables in marriage age" (p. 188). Laurence
                    Glasco's essay on migration to Buffalo, 
                        New York
                    , seemingly fails to control for the effects of age, grouping the small children of
                    migrants with the parents in at least part of his calculations (p. 172). Given the acknowledged
                    importance of age in migration patterns, the reader might well expect that such a control would have
                    been used. Even the most methodologically sophisticated of the articles, John Modell's
                    "Patterns of Consumption, Acculturation and Family Income Strategies in Late
                    Nineteenth-Century America," shows methodological problems; his tables reverse the
                    dependent and independent variables proving that money spent on alcohol significantly affected the
                    number of children in a household.
            Despite these failings, the essays in the volume are suggestive of new areas being developed in
                    family history. Stanley Engerman's preliminary paper on black demography between 1880 and
                    1940 illustrates the importance of seeing changes in black fertility as part of a broad national
                    trend not related to a particular urban disintegration; his tables further suggest the possibility
                    of a reverse trend appearing in the industrialized Northeast. Hareven and Vinovskis outline a life
                    course framework and argue for its potential usefulness, as does Chudacoff. Modell's
                    budgets show convincingly how cultural norms and economic realities overlap and shape each other in
                    the familial context.
            Within these limitations, Family and Population in Nineteenth-Century America is
                    well worth perusing. From it, the reader can gain some sense of where quantitative family history
                    has been, how far it has come, and how far it still has to go.
            Janice L. Reiff, The Newberry Library, 
                            Chicago
                        
               
            
         
         
         
            
               The History of American Electoral Behavior. Edited by Joel H. Silbey, Allan G.
                    Bogue, and William H. Flanigan. (
                        Princeton
                    : 
                        Princeton
                     University Press, 1978. Pp. xv, 384. Notes, figures, tables, index. Clothbound,
                    $27.50; pa-perbound, $12.50.)
            Although historians have long sought to explain voting behavior, systematic inquiry was not feasible
                    until the creation of statistical models and the advent of computer technology. As the introduction
                    to The History of American Electoral Behavior points out, during the past two
                    decades efforts involving several academic disciplines have led to the development of quantitative
                    data archives and research methods training programs essential for scholarship in this area. This
                    volume demonstrates that these efforts are producing valuable, new perspectives on the American
                    electorate. It should be read by anyone interested in American electoral behavior and quantitative
                    history.
            The reader attuned to the traditional narrative style of history may be struck by the starkly
                    analytical style of these essays. The authors delineate the scope of their studies carefully by
                    specifying the level of analysis and the number of cases analyzed. They explain the statistical
                    techniques employed and discuss why a tool is especially well-suited for the task at hand. And they
                    present their results in statistical tables. The scope, techniques, and statistical findings are
                    presented explicitly in order to permit the reader to evaluate the validity of the results. The
                    essays in this collection vary in scope from a case study of a single city to a comprehensive look
                    at the entire nation. The analyses are technically quite proficient, and the tables are
                    well-designed for ready comprehension.
            A notable strength of these essays is the use of theory to shape the research. The authors eschew a
                    virtuoso performance in statistical computation. Instead, the levels of analysis and the statistical
                    techniques are selected with careful regard for the need to test a theory. And the theory is
                    systematically and rigorously tested for its consistency with the data. Ideas, then, lie at the
                    heart of these quantitative essays.
            The theories dealt with can be grouped into a few general topics. Three essays focus on theories that
                    purport to explain the infrequent but politically significant electoral realignments which have
                    occurred over the past century and a half. Two essays test hypotheses accounting for partisan
                    choice, and three others consider explanations for variations in voter turnout. An article assessing
                    the adequacy of various cross-level inference  techniques and
                    one considering the effect of elections on public policy round out the offerings.
            The period covered by the essays spans the nation's history. The title errs, however, in
                    calling this work "the" history of American electoral behavior. Much work remains
                    to be done. Nevertheless, the theories addressed by these scholars suggest the broad intellectual
                    reach of the quantitative approach to past voting behavior. The thoughtful conclusions which the
                    authors draw on the basis of sophisticated, quantitative analysis offer fresh insights into the
                    history of the American electorate.
            Ray M. Shortridge, University of 
                     Louisville, Louisville
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               The Third Electoral System, 1853-1892: Parties, Voters, and Political Cultures.
                    By Paul Kleppner. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1979. Pp. xxii, 424. Notes, tables, maps, bibliography, index.
                    $21.00.)
            Paul Kleppner's new book is not as startling as his Cross of Culture
                    (1970), but few books are. In that volume he maintained that, in the Midwest through most of the
                    late nineteenth century, ethnocultural concerns and attachments explained voting behavior better
                    than did income or occupation and that ethnocultural concerns could be mapped along a continuum
                    peopled by moralistic "pietists" at one end and personal-libertarian
                    "ritualists" at the other. It was not always clear just how these attachments
                    functioned to shape political behavior, and the indistinctness of the terms was bothersome. One
                    could easily think of "right behavior" pietists who belonged to
                    "ritualist" churches—Catholic temperance advocates, for
                    example—or the reverse. Kleppner's book was followed shortly by Richard
                    Jensen's independent but complementary Winning of the Midwest (1971), and
                    then by many books and articles from a number of historians. The ethnocultural approach, which began
                    to be called for the Midwest at least the Kleppner-Jensen thesis, shook the confidence of historians
                    accustomed to analyzing past politics on the assumption, often traced to Charles A. Beard, that
                    people voted their immediate economic interests above anything else. Kleppner has been especially
                    careful not to let the ethnocultural approach harden into a new determinism, explaining all voting
                    behavior everywhere, and he treats the economic depressions of the 1870s and 1890s with proper
                    respect as vote-shapers. But in  less troubled times,
                    ethnic-cultural-moral issues were very salient.
            In The Third Electoral System Kleppner clarifies many points and broadens his
                    analysis in time and space, dealing with the entire Northeast and North Central regions (and
                    occasionally the South and West). He describes the book as "the second installment of my
                    continuing effort to analyze the social bases of American mass political behavior" (p. xv).
                    His data are both quantitative and "letristic" (p. 383). Proceeding topically,
                    Kleppner begins with a model for examining late nineteenth-century politics on its own terms rather
                    than with a progressive, "liberal-rational" model such as has become the norm in
                    this century. In the second chapter he provides a capsule history of the "third electoral
                    system" in 
                        United States
                     history, from the breakup of the pre-Civil War parties over slavery extension, to the
                    realignment from Democratic-Republican balance before the depression of the 1890s to the Republican
                    dominance that characterized the fourth electoral system (roughly, 1894 to 1930). The third chapter
                    argues from state and division-level data that two somewhat overlapping subcultural
                    conflicts—Yankee moralist versus Southern white and pietist versus anti-pietist in the
                    Midwest—shaped the third electoral system from the 1850s to the early 1870s.
            In chapter four Kleppner finds postwar alignment and the depression of the 1870s fortifying the
                    Democrats and producing the close major-party balance that existed from 1874 through 1888. He sees
                    importance in the depression following the Panic of 1873 but insists that it "did not
                    transform … the voting universe" (p. 125). Here there is room for doubt.
                    Certainly the depression did not have the huge impact, in the form of abrupt and long-term shifts,
                    that the panics of 1893 and 1929 did, but nonetheless the fortunes of the Democrats in national
                    terms improved greatly in 1874. Temperance and other ethnocultural issues were certainly important
                    just then, as was the pullout of Republican reconstructers from parts of the South. But more stress
                    can be given, in explaining the Democratic resurgence in 1874 and afterward, to the direct,
                    boomerang effect the panic and depression had on the party in power (the Republicans), and to the
                    indirect effect it had through shattering fragile Republican unity on public finance (especially
                    after Grant's disastrous veto of the "inflation bill" in the spring of
                    1874), so that the Republicans went into the 1874 campaign split and demoralized. It remains a
                    question whether the voters who returned a Democratic majority to the House that year were  motivated more by Republican confusion on money, by the
                    withdrawal from Reconstruction, by the depression, or by ethnocultural issues.
            Kleppner's fifth chapter opens discussion of "the roots of partisanship"
                    with the unambiguous statement that "nineteenth century American partisanship was not
                    rooted in economic distinctions," but rather in "divergent ethnic and religious
                    subcultures" (p. 144). The rest of the book explores cultural and political pluralism,
                    third parties, and the upheavals of 1889-1892 in considerable (often minute) detail. It concludes
                    with provocative ideas on the analysis of political behavior and policy which all students of the
                    period should read for themselves.
            Walter Nugent, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Schooled to Order: A Social History of Public Schooling in the 
                            United States
                        . By David Nasaw. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Oxford
                     University Press, 1979. Pp. xii, 303. Notes, bibliography, index. $13.95.)
            
               The Separate Problem: Case Studies of Black Education in the North, 1900-1930.
                    By Judy Jolley Mohraz. (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1979. Pp. xvi, 165. Notes, tables, bibliography, index.
                    $14.95.)
            The history of schooling in the 
                        United States
                     has come under critical scrutiny in the last ten years. Historians no longer just sing
                    the praises of the rise of free, universal, democratic public schooling. The social movements of the
                    1960s—civil rights, anti-war, anti-poverty, equality and dignity for
                    all—influenced historians to examine the roots of America's ills. Why, they
                    asked, did such problems exist, obviously contradicting the country's democratic credo and
                    bringing into question the role of schooling in causing, or at least not preventing, such a
                    situation? Have schools, in fact, encouraged racism, inequality, anti-intellectualism, and the
                    general manipulation of children?
            The two books under review have been heavily influenced by recent revisionist interpretations. David
                    Nasaw's Schooled to Order attempts to summarize some of these approaches.
                    The book is divided into three sections, each an analysis of one segment of schooling dominant at a
                    particular time in history: the spread of common schooling in the mid-nineteenth century, which
                    marked "the shift from family and community to school 
                    and state as the guardians of the young and watchdogs at the portal of adult life" (p. 84);
                    the rise of the comprehensive high school in the early twentieth century, which purported to be all
                    things to all students; and the emergence of higher education following World War II, which expanded
                    the state's role in manipulating the young. Each layer of schooling failed in certain ways,
                    yet each represents to Nasaw the triumph of "preserving social peace and prosperity within
                    the context of private property and the governmental structures that safeguard it" (p. 242)
                    over the last one hundred and fifty years. At the same time, local resistance and periodic reforms
                    have prevented elites from completely controlling schooling.
            Judy Jolley Mohraz uses specific local examples to examine one slice of the revisionist
                    argument—the prevalence of racism and discrimination in public schooling. Using
                            
                  Philadelphia, Indianapolis
               , and 
                        Chicago
                     as her test cases, she explores the extent of racial inequality in the early decades of
                    the century. The picture is not pretty. In each of the three cities the situation was different, and
                    yet the same. In 
                        Indianapolis
                    , with a small black population, segregation became prescribed by law, with the black
                    community unable to provide much organized resistance. By 1930 the schools were totally segregated,
                    unlike 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Philadelphia
                     where a combination of residential living patterns and black protest maintained some
                    semblance of integration. Segregation, coupled with the use of intelligence testing and an emphasis
                    on vocational and commercial programs, prevented blacks in all three cities from using their
                    schooling to gain economic and social leverage. In some ways more a southern than a northern city, 
                        Indianapolis
                     reflected the common national pattern of using public schools to promote segregation
                    and discrimination, Mohraz concludes.
            Both books tell a similar tale, describing vestiges of popular resistance to the heavyhanded,
                    undemocratic style of public schooling. Each is helpful, yet leaves much unanswered. Mohraz, in
                    particular, tends to generalize. Relying upon newspapers and other public documents, she is unable
                    to get below the surface, to describe in any detail exactly what went on in the schools. Her
                    discussion of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     schools, for example, is most superficial, a catalog of increasing segregation with
                    little feel for what this meant to black children and their relatives and neighbors. She notes that
                    the black community was divided over whether separate schools were good or bad, but she fails to
                    explore carefully this split. In her haste to denounce segregation, she ignores the popularity of
                    Marcus  Garvey and his separatist teachings. Her story of
                    segregation is not a new one, and by simply listing the sins of the past she does not help readers
                    understand those of the present or future. Nasaw's linking of schools with broader social,
                    economic, and cultural patterns is a more fruitful approach. Both books are important, however.
            Ronald D. Cohen, Indiana University Northwest Gary
            
         
         
            
               The Country Railroad Station in America. By H. Roger Grant and Charles W. Bohi.
                    (Boulder: Pruett Publishing Company, 1978. Pp. 183. Illustrations, essay on sources, index.
                    $22.50.)
            Earlier in this century hundreds of small town and rural railroad depots served Indiana. Many
                    Hoosiers can recall the small, well-painted—brown, gray or boxcar-red according to
                    company policy—station at the end of main street. The warp and woof of the society of
                    that earlier age was well served by such stations. With its mail and express service, less than
                    carload-lot freight, telegraph office, and full complement of freight and passenger trains, the
                    early twentieth-century depot was a major focal point of contact with the outside world. Today
                    probably no single community facility provides the variety of important services associated with the
                    railroad station of yesterday. Fifty years ago some 80,000 stations served the nation. Many of these
                    depots have since been closed, some have been torn down, and a few remain as antique shops,
                    restaurants, or tourist centers. Today's Amtrak operates only over one tenth of the
                    nation's rail system, and only 500 stations are listed in the Amtrak timetable.
            
               The Country Railroad Station in America reviews both the rich past of rural and
                    small town depots as well as their present low status. Both authors are longtime photographers and
                    students of railroad lore as well as history teachers. About one third of the volume is text, with
                    the remainder consisting of over 300 pictures and floor plans of past and present country depots.
                    Two thirds of the pictures are from the authors' collections; the remainder come from a
                    variety of sources. Many of the photographs of half a century ago reveal vibrant depot activity,
                    while more recent pictures frequently show only vacant, unpainted buildings. Some railroads used two
                    or more standard building designs to fit the needs and size of the community concerned. Many
                    stations included modest living quartres  for the agent, often
                    located on the second floor. The stations pictured range from New 
                        England
                     to 
                        California
                    , with several located in 
                        Canada
                    . There is a heavy concentration on the states of 
                  Ohio, Illinois, Iowa
               , and 
                        Nebraska
                    . The only Indiana depots shown are those located in Argos, 
                        Fulton
                    , Grabill, Kempton, 
                        Knox
                    , Laketon, 
                        Shelbyville
                    , and Wanatah.
            The text and pictures are well supplemented by a brief essay on sources and a full index. Both the
                    railroad buff and the student of railroad history will find much of interest in this survey of one
                    aspect of twentieth-century American railroading.
            John F. Stover, Purdue University, 
                            Lafayette
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Which Side Are You On? The Harlan County Coal Miners, 1931-39. By John W.
                    Hevener. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1978. Pp. xiv, 216. Notes, illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $10.95.)
            John W. Hevener has written an important, interesting, and at times exciting history of mine
                    organizing in Harlan County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , in the 1930s. He has explored the relationship between the economically backward and
                    relatively uncom-petitive position of the Harlan County mine operators and their intense hostility
                    to unionization. He has also explored the relationship between the social dislocation of migrants
                    moving into Harlan County and the violence in the county. Hevener argues that the inclination of the
                    community toward violence combined with the extreme deprivation that visited itself upon the miners
                    during the early years of the Depression set the stage for the violent conflict between the
                    autocratic coal operators, desperate not to lose their wage advantage, and the miners, desperate to
                    gain a decent wage.
            In this conflict both sides brought all the resources they could muster to the battle. Hevener shows
                    the economic power of the operators and the political power they maintained through control of the
                    local Republican party machine. When the miners attempted to unionize, the coal operators used the
                    power of their local offices and their control over the deputy sheriffs and mine guards to break
                    strikes. When necessary they could gain the support of the state capital. Their power was used to
                    jail and intimidate union organizers, to disrupt union rallies, to stop picketing, to prevent
                    outside union aid from reaching the county, and to provide a shield for vigilante violence. The
                    miners in turn attempted to use community solidarity and outside sympathy in their struggle against
                    the coal  companies. With the election of Franklin D. Roosevelt,
                    the national publicity given the LaFollette Civil Liberties Committee, the conspiracy case against
                    the local coal operators, and the activity of the National Labor Relations Board, a new balance of
                    power was established in Harlan.
            Hevener shows the limits of the New Deal in establishing an accommodation between labor and capital.
                    As long as the local coal operators had control over the local governmental apparatus the miners
                    were limited in their ability to organize the county. Although pressure on the mine owners from the
                    federal government forced them to accept limited unionization in Harlan the new balance of power did
                    not bring security to unionism. In 1939 Harlan County operators refused to recognize the national
                    miner's contract, precipitating a strike and the mobilization of the 
                        Kentucky
                     National Guard. Ultimately the union won only a compromise contract, and that only
                    after a major confrontation between guardsmen and strikers that left two miners dead and several
                    seriously wounded.
            Despite the excitement and interest of the subject there is something missing in this book. The
                    miners of Harlan engaged in a series of major organizing struggles during the 1930s. With slight
                    hope for success, miners flocked to the union and endured the most brutal violence and intimidation:
                    shootings, loss of jobs, homes, and savings. They faced a well-armed and violently partisan local
                    political establishment. Hevener suggests that starvation conditions, aggrevated by a 10 percent
                    wage reduction, pushed Harlan County miners into a decade-long struggle for unionization. The
                    persistance of that struggle is intriguing. Given the short period and limited geography covered by
                    this book, more attention should have been paid to the structure of the community and the
                    interaction between the nature of miners' work and community solidarity. Who were the local
                    leaders? What was the interaction between social gatherings, church, and union activity? Why did
                    some support the union while others did not?
            Three other points bothered this reviewer. Hevener argues that Harlan could not compete without its
                    wage advantage: this argument needs a stronger statistical base. He notes that when its advantage
                    over northern producers was lost after 1929 Harlan's production fell. One searches in vain
                    for comparable statistics for the northern fields. Bell County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , was mentioned several times, but only in the early chapters of the book. One can not
                    help but wonder what happened there later. Finally, Hevener documents extensively the power of coal
                         operators in combatting the communist-oriented National
                    Miners Union and the massive violation of civil liberties used to "purge the area of
                    radical unionism" (p. 88). There is an uncomfortable moralism in the tone that notes
                    "vigilantism, once unleashed, was not easily checked. The following year, when traditional
                    trade unionism reentered Harlan County, public officials, deputies, and private persons responded
                    with similar ferocious hostility to the UMW" (p. 88). It is to be hoped that the
                    implication here is not a regret that violence was directed against "traditional trade
                    unionism" but rather that miners' liberties were violated no matter what
                    organization they belonged to.
            John T. Cumbler, University of 
                     Louisville, Louisville
                  
               
            
         
         
            
               The Mess in 
                            Washington
                        : Manpower Mobilization in World War II. By George Q. Flynn. (
                        Westport
                    , Conn.: Greenwood Press, 1979. Pp. xi, 294. Notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $17.95.)
            This book's story is one of frustration. The War Manpower Commission (WMC), headed by former
                    Indiana governor Paul McNutt, was created by the Roosevelt administration to plan and implement
                    efficient manpower utilization during World War II; but it enjoyed little support and was frequently
                    the loser in bureaucratic infighting. McNutt himself, a much-admired New Dealer with credible
                    presidential ambitions in 1940, ended his career in 
                        Washington
                     politics at the conclusion of the war as a weak, isolated figure. His fate, George Q.
                    Flynn asserts, mirrored that of New Deal social reformism in general during the war years.
            The author discerns at least four reasons for McNutt's failure and, implicitly, for that of
                    the New Dealers as a group. First, McNutt found himself in nearly constant conflict with the
                    military establishment, which successfully defended its own bureaucratic turf, understood manpower
                    policy solely in terms of the needs of the uniformed forces, and sought the virtual militarization
                    of American society. Second, WMC ran squarely up against the refusal of major organized interest
                    groups and the general public to accept the logic of total war and total mobilization. The interest
                    groups, all of them possessing more political clout than McNutt, pursued their own goals above all
                    else and cooperated with WMC only when it suited their convenience. The public as a whole refused to
                    give up cherished myths about white supremacy, male dominance, and laissez  faire economics; it looked forward, not to a new world, but to a return
                    to normalcy at the end of the war. Third, McNutt and WMC suffered from a lack of interest and
                    support from President Roosevelt, a not uncommon phenomenon that from time to time demoralized other
                    individuals and agencies in his government. Fourth, McNutt may have been the victim of his own
                    political philosophy. Hoping to combine social reformism and maximum support of the war with a
                    decentralized Jeffersonian voluntarism, he largely foreswore the use of whatever coercive authority
                    he might have been able to muster.
            Flynn leaves one with a few questions. One would never learn from this book that the military
                    planners actually cut their estimates of needed Army combat strength in half as the war progressed.
                    Conversely, he may give readers an exaggerated impression of both McNutt's importance and
                    his competence; his own treatment suggests that the Indianian possessed neither an effective public
                    presence nor notable skill in the tough game of bureaucratic politics. Finally, the skeptic is left
                    to wonder whether WMC was particularly necessary in the first place. One gets the impression that
                    the modest services it was able to perform were about all that manpower mobilization required, and
                    one wonders whether a stronger agency would have facilitated or hampered the war effort.
            Such qualms notwithstanding, this book is a valuable exploration of an important topic; one hopes it
                    will encourage equally important studies of other aspects of World War II mobilization.
            Alonzo L. Hamby, 
                  
                            Ohio
                         University, 
                            Athens
                        
               
            
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            Received from The Bookmark (P.O. Box 74, 
                        Knightstown
                    , Indiana 46148) as part of a valuable reprint series of county atlases and histories
                    are the following publications:
            
               1878 Historical Atlas of 
                            Tippecanoe County
                        , Indiana, with Complete New Index. Reprint. (
                        Knightstown
                    , Ind.: The Bookmark, sponsored by the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     Historical Association, 1978. Pp. 145. Maps, illustrations, index. Clothbound,
                    $29.00; paperbound, 19.00, plus 1.50 postage.)
            
               Century Landowner Atlas of 
                            Tipton County
                        , Indiana, Including Landowner Wall-Map …, 1927-8 O'Banion
                        Atlas, 1975 Plat Book, and Historical Appendix. Reprint. (
                        Knightstown
                    , Ind.: The Bookmark, sponsored by Indian Reserve Chapter NSDAR, 
                        Tipton
                    , Ind., 1979. Pp. 127. Maps, illustrations, indexes, appendix. Clothbound,
                    $29.00; paperbound, $19.00, plus $1.50 postage.)
            
               1893 Landowner Atlas: The County of 
                            Wayne
                        , Indiana … Reprint. (
                        Knightstown
                    , Ind.: The Bookmark, 1979. Pp. 71. Index to photographs, maps, illustrations, appendix.
                    Clothbound, $26.25; paperbound, 16.25, plus 1.50 postage.)
            
               1884 Atlas of Union County, Indiana …. Reprint. (
                        Knightstown
                    , Ind.: The Bookmark, sponsored by The Liberty Assembly 93, Rainbow Girls, 1978. Pp. 83.
                    Index, maps, illustrations. Clothbound, $23.20: paperbound, 13.20, plus 1.00 postage.)
            
               1893 Atlas: The County of Henry, Indiana …. Reprint. (
                        Knightstown
                    , Ind.: The Bookmark, 1978. Pp. 94. Maps, illustrations, new index. Clothbound,
                    $27.00; paperbound, 17.00, plus 1.50 postage.)
            
               1885 History of De Kalb County, Indiana …. Reprint. (
                        Knightstown
                    , Ind.: The Bookmark, sponsored by De Kalb County Historical Society, 1978. Pp. 1072.
                    Map, illustrations, new index. $25.00, plus 1.50 postage.)
            
               1922 History of Jay County, Indiana. Edited by Milton L. Jay. Reprint. (
                        Knightstown
                    , Ind.: The Bookmark, sponsored by Jay County Historical Society, 
                        Portland
                    , Ind., 1978. Pp. 562. Illustrations, indexes. $21.50, plus 1.50
                postage.)
         
         
         
            Seventy-Five Years of the Indiana Magazine of History: A Prepublication Sale
            To commemorate the seventy-fifth anniversary of the Indiana Magazine of History the
                    Indiana Historical Bureau will publish a volume containing a sample of the variety of articles that
                    have made the IMH both popular and prestigious since its inception in 1905. The
                    twenty-eight items included illustrate the continuing policy of the IMH to publish
                    the work of amateur and professional historians, which ranges broadly over historical topics and has
                    included genealogy, historical documents, reminiscences, and influential, seminal articles in
                    mid-western history.
            Scheduled for inclusion are: Cottman, Our Reasons for Being; Johnson, Recollections of Early 
                        Brookville
                    ; Woodburn, Indiana Centennial; Coleman, Letters from Eighteenth Century Indiana
                    Merchants; Cottman, History to Order; Coleman, Some Religious Developments in Indiana; Shockley,
                    County Seats and County Seat Wars in Indiana; Esarey, The Pioneer Aristocracy; de la Hunt, Judge
                    Elisha Mills 
                        Huntington
                    ; Barnhart, The Southern Influence in the Formation of Indiana; Cottman, The Indiana
                    Magazine of History: A Retrospect; Riker, Jonathan Jennings; Gates, Land Policy and Tenancy in the 
                        Prairie
                     Counties of Indiana; Elliott, Frances Wright's Experiment with Negro
                    Emancipation; Weissenburger, The Urbanization of the Middle West; Stampp, The Impact of the Civil
                    War upon Hoosier Society; Lang, German Immigration to 
                        Dubois County
                    , Indiana, during the Nineteenth Century; Barnhart, The Democratization of Indiana
                    Territory; Carmony, Historical Background of the Restrictions against State Debt in the Indiana
                    Constitution of 1851; Thornbrough, Indiana and Fugitive Slave Legislation; Johannsen, Literature and
                    History: The Early Novels of Edward Eggleston; Horsman, Western War Aims, 1811-1812; Busbey, So Well
                    Rembered; Buley, Water(?) Witching Can Be Fun; Prucha, Indian Removal and the Great American Desert;
                    Carmony and Swope, Flatboat Building on Little Raccoon Creek, 
                        Parke County
                    , Indiana; Eidson and Akers, Democratic Attitudes in 
                        Johnson County
                     during the Civil War Era: A Look at the Demaree Papers; Barrows, The Manuscript Federal
                    Census: Source for a "New" Local History.
            The compilation will be issued as Volume Fifty-two of the Indiana Historical
                    Collections in the fall of 1980. It has been compiled by, and will include an introduction by,
                    Lorna Lutes Sylvester, associate editor of the Indiana Magazine of History. It
                    will be hardbound and contain approximately 550 pages; all articles are being completely reset.
            
            Special prepublication price until July 15, 1980, will be $11.50; after that date the cost
                    will be $14.50. Indiana residents should include 4 percent sales tax.
            Please send prepaid orders for Seventy-five Years of the Indiana Magazine of
                    History to the: Indiana Historical Bureau, Room 408, 140 North Senate Avenue, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46204. Please include your name and address for mailing purposes.
         
         
            Materials Concerning Eugene V. Debs Sought
            The Eugene V. Debs Papers Project at Indiana State University is searching for material on Debs to be
                    included in the publication of his complete works: his correspondence (including letters to and from
                    Debs), his speeches, and his writings. The project, which is supported by a grant from the National
                    Historical Publications and Records Commission and by Indiana State University, will publish
                    Debs' entire works in a microform edition and selected correspondence in letterpress
                    volumes. Anyone who has Debs papers, personal recollections, clippings, photographs, or other
                    relevant material, or who would like to know more about the project, please write to J. Robert
                    Constantine, Editor, Debs Papers Project, History Department, Indiana State University, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana 47809.
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
