
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 66, Issue 4, pages 299-391. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:66+issue:4+year:1970&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            A Good and Profitable Occasion: The Story of Acton Camp Ground
            
                    Sylvia C. Henricks
                    ∗
                
            About fifteen miles southeast of Indianapolis is a quiet meadow at the corner of Southport and Acton
                    roads. It is a part of what was once the large Acton Camp Ground, used from 1859 to 1905. Nothing
                    now marks the site except the remains of an earthen dam, which changed a small stream into a lake
                    for the campers. A few elderly residents of the community remember the camp ground, but for the most
                    part, its illustrious past is forgotten.
            Acton Camp Ground resulted from the efforts of fourteen Methodists, six ministers and eight laymen,
                    who met on June 16, 1859, in a grove of trees near London in Shelby County.1 The
                    Indianapolis District of the South-East Indiana Conference of the Methodist Church, to which their
                    churches belonged, had never had a camp ground although camp meetings had long been a vital part of
                    their Methodist heritage.2 The men felt confident of the success of such a
                    venture. Their denomination was the largest in the state3 The farmers'
                    increased prosperity, and even leisure, as machinery began to take over some of their more arduous
                    work, seemed to indicate that there would be both adequate financial support and participation.
                    Roads were being improved, and the Indianapolis and Cincinnati Railroad opened in 1853 would provide
                    easy access to a camp ground located along its line.4 The men decided to form an
                    association, buy land, and begin development of a camp ground. They established one committee to
                    formulate a constitution and articles of the association and another to look for a suitable
                    location.
            At the second meeting on June 23, 1859, attendance was larger. Twenty-four people were present with
                    more churches represented, including Roberts Chapel and Asbury in Indianapolis, the Southport,
                    London, and Palestine circuits, and the Shelbyville Station. The site committee had found a forty
                    acre tract "adjoining Farmersville," the original name of Acton; they could
                    purchase twenty acres from the 
                  
                     ∗ Sylvia C. Henricks is an assistant in the Indiana Central
                            College Library, Indianapolis.
                  
                     1
                            Acton Lectures, 1881: Lectures and Sermons Delivered In the Pavilion at Acton
                                Camp Ground, Acton, Indiana, August 1st to 10th, 1881, under the Auspices of the
                                Camp-Meeting Association (Indianapolis, 1881), 4. The first twenty pages of this
                            pamphlet comprise a history of the Acton Camp Meeting Association and a copy of its
                            constitution and by laws. Unless otherwise noted, information about the camp ground to 1881
                            is from this pamphlet.
                  
                     2 Herbert L. Heller, Indiana Conference of the Methodist
                                Church, 1832-1956 [Greencastle, Indiana, 19563, 206.
                  
                     3 Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era,
                                1850-1880 (Indianapolis, 1965), 599.
                  
                     4 Ared M. Murphy, "The Big Four Railroad in
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XXI (June and September,
                            1925), 178.
               
                    
                    
                  ACTON CAMP GBOUND (CENTEB) ON THE BIO FOUB RAILBOAD.
                  
                  Reproduced from Baists Property Atlas of Marion County, Indiana (Philadelphia:
                            C. W. Baist, 1901), Plan 21.
               
                     Reverend John V. R. Miller for $35 an acre. The
                    twenty additional acres could be bought later.5
            
            The committee on the constitution and articles of the association also had its report ready. The
                    objects of the association were defined in the first and second articles of the constitution. 
                        "This association shall be denominated the INDIANAPOLS DISTHICT CAMPMEETING ASSOCIATION OF
                            THE METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH."
                        "The object of this association shall be to purchase, improve and hold a tract of
                            land in the vicinity of Acton, for camp-meeting purposes, Sunday school celebrations, and
                            other meetings of a strictly moral and religious character."
                        … "the members of the association shall be the tent-holders, the pastors
                            (including the presiding elders, the preachers in charge, and the assistant preachers) of
                            the several charges represented, and of all other members of the church who shall sign this
                                constitution."6
                  
                     The constitution was said to assure "a Methodist camp-meeting, controlled by
                    Methodists alone."7 It provided for officers and five trustees. The
                    officers elected were F. C. Holliday, president; William Hacker, vice president; Alexander Worth,
                    treasurer; and J. J. Dumont, secretary.
            Eager to see the proposed site of their new camp ground, the association met at the Acton location on
                    July 14. There they elected as trustees Alexander Worth, William Hannaman, James Brenton, Thomas
                    Wray, and William Hacker, who were authorized to complete the purchase. A previously appointed
                    subscription committee had raised $860 to pay for the land and improvements. Anxious to
                    use the land immediately the association directed the trustees to prepare for the first camp meeting
                    on August 29.8 There was "a respectable number of
                    tent-holders" that first year. Subscriptions and collections taken during the meeting
                    brought in $1,050. This was a sizable sum but it was short of the $1,500 that
                    had been spent by the association.
            The constitution gave the association the authority to meet each year to elect the officers and
                    trustees, and to decide if, when, and how long camp meeting was to be held.9 On
                    April 24, 1860, the association 
                  
                     5 The remaining land was purchased sometime before 1881.
                  
                     6
                            Acton Lectures, 1881, 4-5. Tent holders were members of participating
                            Methodist churches who by their rental of a tent or space on the camp ground had one vote
                            per family in the association. Ibid., 16-17.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 5.
                  
                     8 The trustees were to hold in trust "all the property, real
                            and personal, of the association"; to "make fences and other
                            improvements," to schedule camp meetings of the various churches represented in the
                            association; to see that no improper amusements were allowed on the grounds; to oversee the
                            management of boarding tents: and to employ a police force to preserve order. Acton Lectures, 1881, 18-19.
                  
                     9 Around 1874 the constitution was amended to include in the officers
                            of the association a Camp-Meeting Committee, which elected the trustees annually and the
                            other officers "from time to time," determined "from year to year
                            the question of holding a camp-meeting," and was "charged with the
                            responsibility of arranging for the same …." Acton
                                Lectures, 1881. 17.
               
                     met at the camp ground and decided to have a camp meeting begin
                    on August 16 and extend over two Sundays " ‘if the interest
                    justified.’ " The suggestion was made that the Friday before the meeting should
                    be a day of fasting and prayer " ‘for the outpouring of the Holy Spirit upon the
                    meeting.’ "10 But as a precaution, at the July 16 business
                    meeting the association authorized the trustees to employ two policemen to keep order during the
                    camp meeting. At this meeting officers for the year were elected, although the election of trustees
                    was deferred. At the business meeting held during the camp meeting the treasurer reported he had
                    spent $1,972.12—$22.64 more than his income. The history reports
                    that attendance was fair.
            After a spring meeting in 1861 at which association officers were elected, the camp meeting met
                    August 15, 1861, and was held over two Sundays. It was considered " ‘a glorious
                    success’ " with about fifty souls being converted. There were large crowds
                    during the week days, good order was maintained, and there was much effective preaching. Collections
                    totalling $107 were received from those who attended.
            Meetings were also held in 1862 and 1863, but they were not considered successful because people were
                    too distraught by the Civil War. In preparation for the late summer meeting of 1863 necessary
                    repairs were made to the grounds which included rebuilding the preacher's tent and the
                    pavilion which had been destroyed by fire. The record notes that at that fifth camp
                    "meeting there was considerable disturbance from ungodly roughs, which caused uneasiness
                    and a sense of insecurity among the tent holders, and led the Trustees to take summary means for
                    safety. It was again demonstrated that when the sons of God came together, satan came
                        also."11
            
            The summer of 1864 was a time of mounting tension with doubts concerning the victory of the Union
                    forces and mixed feelings toward Indiana Governor Oliver P. Morton. Rumors of divided loyalties and
                    the discovery of the existence of the subversive Sons of Liberty in Indiana added to the unrest. One
                    writer of the period says that "During the latter part of the summer of 1864, outrages,
                    robberies, and incendiary fires, were of constant occurrence."12
            
            The Acton Camp Ground seems to have suffered as a result of this unrest, for on Sunday, August 14,
                    1864, it was completely burned. The history of the camp meeting association gives this explanation:
                        
                        Several regiments of troops from Marion and Shelby counties had been hurried into the field,
                            and met with a disasterous defeat at Cumberland Ford, and many 
                        
                           10
                                    Ibid., 5.
                        
                           11
                                    Ibid., 7.
                        
                           12 W. H. H. Terrell, Indiana an the War of the
                                        Rebellion (Indianapolis, 1960), 356.
                     
                             were wounded. The officers of the Camp-Meeting
                            Association tendered the use of the Acton Camp Grounds, to Governor Morton for hospital
                            purposes, especially for these regiments. This so enraged the enemies of the county that the
                            entire encampment was burned, and the trees destroyed by the intense heat, on the 14th of
                            August, 1864.13
                  
                    Just who the "enemies of the county" were can only be conjectured, whether
                    enemies of the governor, members of the Sons of Liberty, hostile neighbors, or vandals. The fire may
                    have been accidental and the unsettled times perhaps gave it added significance. However, the rumor
                    of the fire's being set remained, and a later article about the camp ground in the
                    Indianapolis News recounts that "The whole camp was burned in the time of the war
                    … believed to be due to incendiarism. It had been chosen to be a hospital for the
                    soldiers, and many cottage-holders objected. The whole camp was mysteriously burned."14
            
            Although the fire had destroyed everything, at the close of the Civil War the Acton Camp Ground
                    entered a period of steady growth. In June, 1865, the association met to decide on the location of
                    new buildings. They had only $855, which had been received from the insurance on tents
                    and the pavilion. They decided to buy canvas tents rather than board tents which burned so readily.
                    However, the tents could not be received in time, so there was no camp meeting in 1865. The next
                    year army tents were purchased for $600, and a shed was erected for a pavilion. Camp
                    meeting was held in August, extending over two Sundays, and was "a good and profitable
                    occasion."
            In the years after the Civil War the association's most persistent problem seems to have
                    been a disagreement with the Indianapolis and Cincinnati Railroad over what was considered a
                    desecration of the Sabbath: the running of Sunday trains to and from the camp ground. In the early
                    years there had been harmony between the association and the railroad. The camp ground surely could
                    not have enjoyed the importance it did, had it not been located on the railroad line with trains
                    stopping at its gate. On the other hand, the number of people traveling to and from the grounds must
                    have provided the railroad with much revenue. Moreover, in accordance with a verbal agreement
                    between the association and the railroad, Alexander Worth, treasurer both of the Acton Camp-Meeting
                    Association and the Indianapolis and Cincinnati Railroad, added ten cents to the price of a ticket
                    to the camp ground and gave this money to the association. Official recognition of this agreement
                    was made at the 1863 business 
                  
                     13
                            Acton Lectures, 1881, 7-8. Research has not fit this incident into the
                            history of the Civil War. The fighting around Cumberland Gap and Cumberland Ford (fourteen
                            miles south of the Gap) did involve Indiana regiments, the thirty-third and forty-ninth, but
                            this happened in 1862, not 1864. The Indianapolis Sentinel and Journal for the four days
                            following August 14, 1864, contain no mention about the fire at the camp ground.
                  
                     14 Indianapolis News, July 31, 1899.
               
                    
                    
                  PHOTOGRAPH OF THE PAVILION, OR TABERNACLE, AT ACTON GROUND, O.
                            1900.
                  Located in the claude Brenton papers.
                  Provlded by Sylvis C. Henricks.
               
                     meeting of the association when Worth reported receipts of
                    $253.35 from the railroad from the sale of tickets. Through the years this ticket money
                    apparently provided the camp ground with an important source of revenue.
            Because of its continued indebtedness, the association had no wish to sever financial ties with the
                    railroad, but its increasing concern over the Sunday trains could not be disregarded. In the
                    business meeting of June, 1869, the association resolved by a large vote" ‘That
                    it is the sense of this association, that it is improper to run railroad trains on the
                        Sabbath.’15 At the camp meeting in August, 1870, a resolution was
                    adopted concerning Sunday trains: 
                        "WHEREAS, God hath commanded us to remember the Sabbbath [sic] day
                            to keep it holy, and
                        "WHEREAS, The running of trains to and from the camp ground on the Sabbath day, is
                            not only a clear violation of God's commandment, but is also productive of much
                            evil influence in every community reached by these Sunday trains; therefore,
                        "Resolved, That a committee of four from each charge represented
                            in this association be appointed to prepare and submit a plan, whereby all funds necessary
                            for the use of this association, may be secured without any partnership on the part of this
                            association, in the proceeds of railroad trains run on the Sabbath day, to the business
                            meeting to be held in May …."16
                  
                     In May, 1871, this committee reported and suggested that a group be formed to make
                    "arrangements with the railroad as may result in participation by the association with the
                    road, in the fares of persons attending the camp-meeting, provided no trains be run on the
                        Sabbath."17
            
            Around this time Worth resigned as treasurer and retired from his connection with the association.
                    Perhaps he was weary of the whole discussion that seemed to come up at every meeting and appeared
                    insoluble. Even the leaders of the association realized that the discussions were detracting from
                    the spiritual interests of the meetings. On the last day of the camp meeting in 1871 a committee
                    appointed to confer with the railroad reported that the railroad insisted it would run Sunday trains
                    to and from the camp ground. There was much discouragement, and the trustees were given the
                    authority to sell and relocate the camp ground. However, the rescinding of this authority by the
                    association on August 1, 1872, suggests its determination to try to come to some agreement with the
                    railroad.
            On August 1, 1873, the Acton Camp-Meeting Association finally entered into a twenty year contract
                    with the Indianapolis, Cincinnati and Lafayette Railroad.18 The contract
                    contained eleven points, the 
                  
                     15
                            Acton Lectures, 1881, 8.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 9.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., 9-10.
                  
                     18 In 1867 the Indianapolis and Cincinnati Railroad merged with the
                            Lafayette
               
                     first of which was: "No excursion trains whatever will
                    be run to and from the camp ground on Sundays."19 During the camping
                    season that year this section of the agreement was observed, but thereafter trains ran again on
                    Sunday, and the agreement was wholly ignored in that respect. In 1881, eight years later, the
                    problem apparently was still unsolved. The association voted to sanction no longer the running of
                    Sunday trains by sharing the profit; after that year they were to refuse the money accruing from the
                    sale of Sunday train tickets.
            The railroad, in spite of its refusal to curtail the running of Sunday trains, provided the camp
                    ground with important service in addition to acceptable ticket revenue. The 1873 agreement between
                    the association and the railroad describes special arrangements for campers including the railroad
                    pass that was in use: 
                        The company will have on the camp ground, during camp-meeting occasions, and furnish to one
                            person from each family of tent holders, who shall have procured a return ticket as
                            aforesaid, a free pass that will enable such person … to go to his or her home
                            and return with provisions and other necessaries for the use of his or her family, but for
                            no other purpose.
                        … The company will carry to and from the camp ground, on any camp-meeting
                            occasion, free of charge, and without unnecessary delay, all cooking utensils, bedding,
                            baggage, provisions, etc., that may be required by the tent-holders for their comfort and
                            convenience.
                        … Such light baggage, bundles, provisions or other packages as is usually carried
                            on passenger trains, may be carried to and from the camp ground with a passenger on such
                            train.
                        … The company will furnish free passes to the members of the camp-meeting
                            committee to attend the annual meeting of the committee at the camp ground.
                    The railroad was pledged also to schedule "All accommodation passenger trains
                    … to stop at the camp grounds during the continuance of the meeting," and to
                    "co-operate with the association so as to prevent, as far as possible, any and all persons
                    from taking intoxicating liquors to the camp ground at any time, and … not knowingly
                    carry improper persons to the camp ground." The agreement continued to "allow to
                    the association a royalty of ten cents on each camp-meeting ticket sold." In return, the
                    association pledged to the railroad "company the free use of their camp ground and pavilion
                    for Sunday school picnics and all other moral gatherings."20
            
            
               and Indianapolis, to form the Indianapolis, Cincinnati and Lafayette Railroad. In 1880 it was
                        sold under foreclosure and reorganized as the Cincinnati, Indianapolis, St. Louis and Chicago
                        Railroad, and in 1889 it became part of the Cleveland, Cincinnati, Chicago and St. Louis-or
                        "Big Four"-Railroad. Murphy, "The Big Four Railroad in
                        Indiana," 197, 212, 216.
               
                  19 Acton Lectures, 1881, 11.
               
                  20
                        Ibid., 11, 10-12.
            
            
            Two newspaper accounts from August, 1878, give an interesting glimpse of a camp meeting at the Acton
                    Camp Ground. In the first article the reporter spew of the joys of "life in the
                    woods," and the variety of people in attendance. Summaries of three of the day's
                    sermons are given.21 According to the second story early Saturday evening,
                    August 3, the crowds began to arrive. On Sunday even larger crowds were present. There were
                    "Fully 10,000 people … on the ground," and there were no disturbances;
                    "interest and zeal" were noted at the 5 A.M. service on Sunday. The 9 A.M. service
                    was "well attended, and many testimonies, fresh and pure from the heart, were
                    given." The Sunday morning sermon was presented at 10 A.M., after which "The
                    dinner hour was the scene of gypsy life on a grand scale." The reporter could not get close
                    enough to hear the main speaker of the afternoon, Dr. Sampson Tincher of Greensburg, so he listened
                    to various other speakers holding services at various places on the grounds. "A fine shower
                    of rain scattered the people at 5 o'clock, when many suddenly desired very much to attend
                    religious services, if we may judge by the rush for the pavilion." The crowd began to
                    disperse in the evening as they had come, on trains and in wagons.22
            
            With the increased attendance, members of the association addressed their energies to improving the
                    quality of the annual camp meetings. In 1879 they decided to have some literary exercises in
                    connection with the next camp meeting. As a result in August, 1880, three lecturers spoke: Dr.
                    Alexander Martin, a Judge Hagins of Cincinnati, and President Emerson E. White of Purdue University.
            This program proved to be such a worthwhile venture that the association arranged to spend the first
                    ten days of the 1881 meeting in a series of "literary and scientific lectures, sermons,
                    Sunday school work and a young men's day."23 Among the
                    speakers were clergymen, educators, and politicians presenting a variety of subjects including
                        "OUR BOYS WHO SHALL HAVE THEM: THE CHURCH OR THE WORLD?,"
                        "MICROSCOPIC GLIMPSES OF GOD
                        AND IMMORTALITY," "CAMPMEETINGS OF THE OLDEN TIMES," and "LAND OF THOR: OR, A JOURNEY THROUGH NORWAY."24
            
            Although no written history is available for the years after 1881, there is no doubt that the Acton
                    Camp Ground flourished for the next two decades. Such records as there are indicate a large number
                    of people in attendance at camp meetings, "as many as forty thousand people having
                    sometimes been present in a single day."25 Three lists of cottages and
                    owners record between 120 and 140 cottage holders, 
                  
                     21 Indianapolis Journal, August 3, 1878.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., August 5, 1878.
                  
                     23
                            Acton Lectures, 1881, 13.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid. These lectures were among those printed in this pamphlet.
                  
                     25 B. R. Sulgrove, History of Indianapolis and Marion
                                County (Philadelphia, 1884), 527.
               
                     coming from over twenty different Indiana towns, including
                    Franklin, Shelbyville, Greensburg, Rushville, and Hope, and from as far away as Chicago, Illinois,
                    and Hamilton, Ohio.26
            
            The camp ground was easily accessible by train; five trains a day, three westbound, two eastbound
                    stopped at the main gate on Southport Road.27 After 1902 many people could come
                    on the inter-urban, a transportation system which was the extension of the city streetcar lines to
                    neighboring cities.28 According to residents of the area the Indianapolis and
                    Shelbyville Traction Company, a division of the Indianapolis and Cincinnati Traction Company, had a
                    "Y" turnoff into the camp ground and a station there. The summer rate to the
                    grounds was twenty-five cents round trip from either Indianapolis or Shelbyville.29 However, the horse and buggy was still the standard means of travel. Mrs. Rachel Pfendler
                    remembers her father-in-law telling how he lined up in his buggy for an hour waiting to be admitted
                    to the camp ground.30 A few residents of the community remember the dust that
                    lay several inches thick in the wagon tracks. But in spite of the dust and the waiting it was a
                    pleasant outing for families to take a picnic basket and spend the day at the camp ground. Horses
                    were unhitched and fastened to trees on the east side of the grounds. Families attended the morning
                    and afternoon programs and enjoyed a noon picnic in the shade of the big trees. Admission to the
                    grounds was only ten cents, with children under twelve admitted free.31
            
            A lake for enjoyment and fire protection was created on the camp ground around 1900 by damming a
                    small stream that wound through the eastern part of the grounds. In 1881 a committee had been
                    appointed to investigate the possibility of building a lake. A handwritten list in the Claude
                    Brenton Papers indicates that in 1898 a group of forty-eight cottage holders agreed to subscribe
                    $250 for the construction of a lake. Will Maze of Acton remembers the lake as large
                    enough for boats and canoes; one end of it was crossed by a bridge which took traffic entering the
                    camp ground on Acton Road to the main buildings which fronted on Southport Road.32
            
            
               
                  26 Papers on the Acton Camp Ground from the period 1885-1900 including
                        records, lists of cottage holders, a photograph of the pavilion, and the printed and framed
                        "Rules for the Government of the Acton Park Asso'n" were loaned to
                        the author by Claude Brenton, formerly of Acton, Indiana, now of Dunedin, Florida.
               
                        27
                        Acton Chautauqua, July 22-August 10. 1904.
                    
               
                  28 Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana from 1850 to 1920,
                        (2 vols., Fort Wayne, 1924), 11, 1044.
               
                        29
                        Acton Chautauqua, July 26-August 15, 1905.
                    
               
                  30 Interview with Mrs. Rachel Pfendler, Pleasant View, Indiana, February
                        5, 1968.
               
                  31 A single ticket for one week was twenty-five cents; a single ticket
                        during the season was fifty cents. "Rules for the government of the Acton Camp Meeting
                        Association." This is a handwritten undated document. Brenton Papers.
               
                  32 Interview with Will Maze, Acton, Indiana, October 26, 1967.
            
            
            Cottagers did not reside at the camp ground only at times of camp meetings. The 1904 chautauqua
                    account states that "Twenty-five families were in their cottages at Acton Park in the month
                    of May. Many of these, and others, will remain till the frost is on the pumpkin. It is a delightful
                    summer resort and living is cheap, having access to city and country."33 The camper usually built his own cottage on a lot which he rented by the year from the camp
                    meeting association. A receipt, dated July 25, 1895, shows that E. H. Rogers paid $4 for
                    rent of "Tent No. 82." Cottage ownership could also be changed: George W. Gadd on
                    August 28, 1894, purchased for $15 "Cottage No 168 and contents" from
                    E. L. Dolph, Lawrenceburg, Indiana. According to the lists of tent holders two cottages were
                    reserved for the railroad, one each for the Women's Home Mission Society and the
                    Women's Christian Temperance Union, and two for the Junior Epworthians. An 1895 list of
                    cottages for tax appraisal valued them from $15 to $250; the great majority
                    were valued at $50 or less. The camp ground itself was appraised at $970.34
            
            A description of the cottages must be put together piecemeal. A newspaper account in 1899 indicates
                    that some had two stories and were lined in some instances with canvas or heavy cardboard.35 They were probably similar to those of the same period at the Deputy Camp
                    Ground, Jefferson County, Indiana: 
                        … Always called ‘tents,’ these were actually permanent,
                            rough-finished board cottages, with a lean-to kitchen back of a living room, and with attic
                            sleeping places….
                        The cottages were white-washed, and the custom of experienced campers was to line the rough
                            interior of the living room—ceiling and walls—with white sheets tacked
                            and pinned quickly into place. Though it sounds like a singularly impractical idea for
                            camping, it actually was cozy. Tack marks in the hems of ancient bed linen called for no
                            explanation; anyone would know they were ‘Camp Meeting’ sheets.36
                  
                     Gasoline stoves were used for cooking and provided a constant danger of fire or injury.
                    Mrs. Rommie Hay worth of Acton remembers babysitting as a young girl for a cottage holder and being
                    burned trying 
                  
                            33
                            Acton Chautauqua, July 22-August 10, 1904.
                        
                  
                     34 "Appraisement for 1895 Taxes." This is a
                            typewritten list with handwritten notations of addresses, corrected names, and amounts of
                            money paid. There are 140 tents appraised with numbers between 1 and 302. Brenton Papers.
                  
                     35 Indianapolis News, July 31, 1899.
                  
                     36 Heller, Indiana Conference of the Methodist Church,
                                1832-1956, 213-14. A handwritten document in the camp ground records indicates that
                            "tent means permanent wood or brick structure & not a cloth tent or
                            temporary bldg." The six page document is dated May 2, 1882, at the top of page one
                            and mentions various other dates, the latest of which is August 1, 1893. It appears to be
                            sketchy records of several years and lists constitutional articles and by laws, with
                            occasional marginal notes of amendment. In the margins also are page references to some
                            source—presumably a more complete record—which has not been located.
                            This source is later referred to as Camp Ground Record, 1882. Brenton Papers.
               
                     to light the stove.37 The 1899 newspaper
                    account describes a fire which was started by a leaking gasoline stove that flared when lit. Only a
                    few people were up at 5:30 A.M. when the fire started and there was panic at first. But villagers
                    came from Acton to help and the campers threw wet blankets and bedding over porches and roofs of
                    nearby cottages to keep the fire from spreading. They put ropes to one cottage in the path of the
                    fire and pulled it down. Eight cottages were burned in this, the only known fire that occurred
                    during an encampment.38
            
            Food preparation and garbage disposal were in keeping with the times. There was no refrigeration; so
                    there were daily calls to the camp ground by nearby farmers or their wives. Several residents of the
                    community remember going as children to help sell eggs, butter, cheese, and vegetables to the
                    cottagers. The butcher wagon came twice a week from Acton and the butcher sliced bacon, ham, and
                    steak to order on a block fastened to the back of his wagon. Live chickens were sold and many
                    cottagers had a small pen where they could fatten a chicken before killing it. The superintendent of
                    the grounds had a large garden and his wife sold fresh vegetables and milk.39
                    One item on a printed list of rules for campers told how refuse was to be taken care of: 
                        No filth or garbage shall be thrown upon the ground, but shall be emptied in the slop barrels
                            provided: chamber slops must be emptied in privies; broken glass and uneatable things must
                            not be put in barrels with kitchen slops, but emptied in boxes to be hauled away, as the
                            contents of slop barrels are hauled away every day and fed to hogs. Put only such things in
                            slop barrels as a hog can eat.40
                  
                     Disposal methods were primitive, but the ubiquitous hog, which has played such a vital part
                    in Indiana economy, was profitably utilized.
            There was a grocery and provision stand on the camp ground, as well as "barber shops and
                    stores." These were "closed on Sunday, and the lunch stands allowed to sell only
                    such articles as are cooked for eating, and tea, coffee or lemonade."41
                    Meals and lodging could be purchased at a hotel, a two story frame structure with a porch around it.
                    It was operated by the Ladies' Auxiliary which guaranteed "its good order,
                    cleanliness and efficient management." Daily meals were twenty-five cents and Sunday dinner
                    was thirty-five cents. Board and room at the hotel was $1 per day or $6 per
                    week. A room was fifty cents, and twenty-one meals by ticket were $4.42 "Chicken
                    
                  
                     37 Interview with Mrs. Rommie Hayworth, Acton, Indiana, November 10,
                            1967.
                  
                     38 Indianapolis News, July 31, 1899.
                  
                     39 George W. Pittman, quoted in Wayne Guthrie, "Ringside in
                            Hoosierland," ibid., September 10, 1958.
                  
                     40 "Rules for the Government of the Acton Park
                            Asso'n," Brenton Papers.
                  
                            41
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            42
                            Acton Chautauqua, July 22-August 10, 1904.
                        
               
                    
                    
                  COFT
                            OF A DIAGRAM
                            OF ACTON CAMP GROUND.
                  Located in the Claude Brenton Papers. Provided by Sylvia C. Henricks.
               
                    
                    Dinners for Trolley Parties [were] a Specialty" of the hotel,43 and it is said to have been a favorite local honeymoon resort.
            Cottages were located on the four sides of a square in which the camp ground pavilion, or tabernacle,
                    stood. It was a cross shaped wooden structure "with a capacity of 2500
                        persons."44 Covering the window openings were large shutters that
                    could be propped up, allowing free circulation of air. The dirt floor was covered with straw.
                    Unpainted wooden pews provided the seating, gasoline torches the lighting.45 The
                    area immediately surrounding the pavilion was subject to special restrictions. Smoking was not
                    allowed in the area at any time, and during services "all promenading, [and] loitering
                    around in groups" was prohibited as well as all conversation "under the p[a]vilion
                    and in its immediate vicinity."46 No work in or around nearby cottages
                    was to be done that might in any way disturb a service at the pavilion.
            There were strict rules applying to the camp ground as a whole. The keeping of order was of prime
                    importance, and the association trustees constantly maintained a police force, whose headquarters
                    was in the railroad cottage where "all breaches of order" were to be reported.
                    "The laws for the protection of religious assemblies, and especially those prohibiting the
                    sale of intoxicating drinks, and of huckstering in the vicinity of the encampment" were
                        enforced.47 The trustees wanted these prohibitions maintained not only
                    within the camp ground, but in a one mile area beyond it. No "meetings or amusements
                    inconsistent. with [the] spirit & precepts of [the] Christian Religion" were to be
                    allowed, and specifically, "Dancing & other improper amusements [were] never [to
                    be] permitted."48 Children under twelve were not to leave the camp
                    ground unless their parents accompanied them; "loitering in the groves on the grounds after
                    dark" was "positively forbidden"49 and everyone who
                    was not boarding there was to have left the grounds by 10:30 P.M. when the gates were locked.
            The camper's day began with the ringing of a bell for all to rise. Family worship was at 7
                    A.M. in the cottages, a fellowship meeting was held at 9, a sermon or lecture was given at 10:30.
                    There was a 2 P.M. song service, followed by a sermon or lecture at 2:30. A children's
                    meeting was at 4; young people's meeting was at 7, and the preaching service was at 8 P.M.
                    At 10 P.M. the retiring bell was 
                  
                            43
                            Acton Chautauqua, July 26-August 15, 1905.
                        
                  
                     44 Indianapolis Star, November 14, 1905.
                  
                     45 Pittman, quoted in Guthrie, "Ringside in
                            Hoosierland."
                  
                     46 "Rules for the Government of the Acton Park
                            Asso'n," Brenton Papers.
                  
                            47
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     48 Camp Ground Record, 1882, Brenton Papers.
                  
                     49 "Rules for the Government of the Acton Park
                            Asso'n," ibid.
                  
               
                     rung, and at 10:30 there was to be silence throughout the camp.
                    People were required to "retire within their cottages, cease talking, blow out lights, and
                    keep quiet."50
            
            Programs at the camp ground were varied. Often a day was devoted to a special group: Epworth League,
                    Junior League, the Women's Home Missionary Society, or the Women's Christian
                    Temperance Union. On Old Soldiers' Day veterans and members of the Women's Relief
                    Corps were admitted free. Farmers' Day was always well attended. In later years chautauqua
                    programs were included. These provided a more secular, but still highly moral entertainment. The
                    program of the 1904 Acton Park Chautauqua, which was evidently prepared early and sent to
                    prospective campers, promised "Wit, Humor, Rollicking Fun, Quartettes, Solos, Choruses,
                    Barnard's Orchestra, News Boys' Band, Lectures, Sermons, Speeches,
                    Children's Drills, Stereopticons, Etc." Featured attractions were the stereopticon
                    programs " ‘Up the Nile’ " and " ‘Among
                    the Rockies with Camera and Pencil,’ "Short Talks by Old Folks," and a
                    Young Ladies' Military Band. There was a Fraternity Day with Masons, Odd Fellows, Knights
                    of Pythias, and others invited to give short speeches; DePauw Day when President Edwin H. Hughes of
                    DePauw University was to speak; and Political Day when the candidates for governor were invited. The
                    activities were to last from July 22 through August 10 and promised "A Grand
                        Time for all Who Attend."51 The 1905 Chautauqua program
                    assured "Twenty Days with Rich and Varied Talent." One featured item was
                    described: "The Grant-Marone, Monologist and Harpist, are a combination presenting a
                    refined and artistic program, selected from the best in music and literature. The harp is
                    particularly adapted to the human voice, and their renditions given together produce an impression
                    which lingers long in the memory."52
            
            Many famous speakers came to the camp ground, or Acton Park as it was sometimes called in its later
                    years. "Almost every man of prominence in church or letters in Indiana has been heard at
                    the park during the meetings of the association. From beyond the State have come men of note and
                    speakers of wide reputation."53 William Jennings Bryan spoke there more
                    than once; George W. Pittman recalled one speech that was two and a half hours long with the only
                    other sound that produced by "the rhythmic motion of the palm-leaf fans everyone had
                        …."54 Other speakers included Fitzhugh Lee, nephew 
                  
                            50
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                            51
                            Acton Chautauqua, July 22-August 10, 1904.
                        
                  
                            52
                            Acton Chautauqua, July 21;-August 15, 1905, 24.
                        
                  
                     53 Indianapolis Star, November 13, 1905.
                  
                     54 Quoted in Guthrie, "Ringside in
                        Hoosierland."
               
                     of Robert E. Lee, and also a Confederate general; Ballington
                    Booth, son of the founder of the Salvation Army, who organized the Volunteers of America; John B.
                    Gordon, a Confederate general who was later prominent in Georgia politics. Among clergymen who spoke
                    were Sam Jones, a Methodist evangelist of great persuasive power; Thomas DeWitt Talmage, a prominent
                    Presbyterian minister whose sermons were for thirty years printed in hundreds of religious and
                    secular newspapers and in book form; and William Quayle, a Methodist minister noted for his great
                    oratorical ability.
            In August, 1905, the association met for a business session at which time it made plans for the
                    cottagers to assume the indebtedness that had hung over the camp ground for more than twenty years
                    by issuing $10 bonds at 3 per cent interest. Members also liberalized the constitution of
                    the association so that, while only a Methodist could be president of the association, any tent
                    owner connected with any evangelical church could hold a lesser office.55 The
                    successful 1905 sewn and the good response to the sale of the bonds gave the association great hope
                    of removing the indebtedness.56
            
            But on November 12, 1905, disaster struck the Acton Camp Ground. It was a windy Sunday afternoon.
                    Shortly after a northbound freight train went by around 3 o'clock, children playing nearby
                    saw flames in the camp ground racing through the dry leaves. Apparently sparks from the engine had
                    ignited dry leaves and grass along the track. The children ran into Acton to rouse the townfolk, and
                    they and the custodian of the grounds and a few campers, who had not yet closed their cottages for
                    the season, tried to fight the fire.57 After ten minutes they realized it was
                    hopeless. The weather had been dry, the breeze was brisk, and the flames spread from cottage to
                    cottage until all one hundred and ten had been burned. "In half an hour every cottage in
                    the park was ablaze, and in an hour every cottage and the big tabernacle had been burned to the
                    ground." The only buildings left were the hotel, which caught fire several times but had
                    the flames extinguished, the bandstand, and the custodian's house which were out of the
                    path of the fire.58
            
            Cottage holders reportedly were eager to rebuild, but the officers of the association were less
                    optimistic. "They said that years and years of hard work had been undone in a brief half
                    hour and that serious obstacles existed to handicap the association in rebuilding the 
                  
                     55 Indianapolis Star, August 11, 1905.
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., August 13, 1905.
                  
                     57 Interview with Mrs. Rommie Hayworth, Acton, Indiana, November 10,
                            1967. The newspaper version of the fire indicates that the custodian found the fire first
                            and roused the people of Acton by telephone. Indianapolis Star, November 13, 1905.
                  
                     58 Indianapolis Star, November 13, 1905.
               
                    
                    
                  PHOTOGRAPHY OF THE HOTEL
                            AT ACTION CAMP GROND, AFTER 1905.
                  Courtesy of Ive Jane Rebouro.
               
                     place."59 A special meeting of the
                    Acton Park Association was held in the hotel kitchen on November 21 with about seventy-five persons
                    present. Everyone felt the railroad was responsible for the loss, estimated in excess of
                    $30,000, to their buildings and 425 shade trees. The trustees and directors were
                    authorized to confer with the railroad officials in an effort to settle the damages without
                    resorting to the courts. They were also authorized to clear the grounds of debris, sell the wreckage
                    for the best figure available, and have the grounds replatted. Some of the officers were doubtful
                    that the title to the grounds would stand up in court, for when the camp ground was established the
                    association had no charter or other legal form of organization that would allow them to hold real
                    estate under the law.60
            
            At an April, 1906, meeting the stockholders of the Acton Park Association voted to continue operation
                    of the camp ground, and to bring fifteen individual suits against the railroad for their losses. The
                    officers of the association thought it wiser to abandon the camp ground. "It was declared
                    that funds were lacking, that Methodists generally had lost interest in the place and that to
                    ‘resume business’ would mean failure and more debts." But the
                    stockholders were determined to go ahead with their plans for the summer: "an old-fashioned
                    Methodist gathering … tents taking the place of cottages."61
                    On August 9, 1906, the stockholders of the Acton Park Association met and elected officers and
                    trustees, and considered the question of rebuilding. It was agreed that if forty property owners
                    would promise to rebuild within one year, the trustees would be instructed to replat and proceed
                    with rebuilding; but if forty promises could not be obtained, then the trustees would be authorized
                    to dispose of the property at the best figure available. Twenty pledges were given at that meeting;
                    a final report was to be made in December. Although the weather was bad, various preachers led
                    "Enthusiastic meetings … being held daily" in the hotel, reported the
                    Indianapolis News.
               62
            
            Apparently the hopes of the cottagers to rebuild did not materialize, for the Acton Camp Ground was
                    sold. Residents of Acton report that the custodian's house stood for several years; then it
                    was destroyed by fire. The hotel, after serving a variety of uses, including a temporary school and
                    a dance hall, was dismantled and the lumber sold. Over the years wells that had been dug for campers
                    were filled in and the foundations of the buildings levelled. The forty acre 
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., November 14, 1905. At some point prior to the fire the association
                            had incorporated and become the Acton Park Association. Details of this change have not been
                            located.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., November 22, 1905.
                  
                     61
                            Ibid., April 4, 1906.
                  
                     62 Indianapolis News, August 10, 1906.
               
                     tract was divided. The half which had contained most of the
                    buildings is now being used for homes; the remainder is meadow and trees. The stream still wanders
                    quietly through the grounds, and a few of the old trees that survived the fire still cast their
                    shade. The railroad has changed from double to single track, and the interurban that ran between the
                    train tracks and the road is completely gone. Except for the vestiges of the dam there is no sign of
                    the camp ground that was the source of so much pleasure and inspiration to thousands through its
                    fifty year history. Only the site of the camp ground remains, its story almost forgotten. It is a
                    facet of Indiana's past, a glimpse into a time most Hoosiers can now share only in
                    imagination. The present is more accurately comprehended by an appreciation of these long ago
                    campers, today's spiritual and secular antecedents, who enjoyed their camp meeting, that
                    "good and profitable occasion" of a bygone day.
         
         
         
            Curtis R. Burke's Civil War Journal
            
                    Edited by Pamela J. Bennett
                
            Contributed by Richard A. Misselhorn∗
            
            On Saturday, September 10, 1864, Curtis R. Burke notes in his journal: "It is two years
                    today since I took the Confederate oath, signed the roll and donned a gray uniform, fully equipped,
                    and I have never for one moment regretted that act of my life" (p. 337). Burke and his
                    father had joined the cavalry of John Hunt Morgan and had gone south into Tennessee. During
                    Burke's two years with Morgan his most significant military action was
                    "Morgan's Raid" into Indiana in July, 1863, which ended disastrously at
                    Buffington Island, Ohio, on July 19. On that day Burke, his father, and a large number of
                    Morgan's force were captured by Federal soldiers. Morgan's men, excluding
                    officers, were sent first to Camp Morton, Indianapolis, where they remained about a month.1 On August 18, 1863, Burke and Morgan's men arrived at Camp Douglas,
                    Chicago, to begin an imprisonment of much longer duration.
            Burke's journal begins on the day before his enlistment and he apparently kept rather full
                    accounts of daily occurrences. In early entries he often records that he has written in his journal
                    on a certain day; on Sunday, August 21, 1864, he indicates that in prison "The boys play
                    [cards] to kill time, but I write" (p. 331). Regardless of his frequent complaints about
                    lack of writing supplies at Camp Douglas Burke managed to write many letters, according to his
                    journal, and presumably to compile much material which has gone into the existing account. As
                    indicated previously the 439 page typewritten manuscript now extant was dictated in 1914 in
                    Indianapolis by Burke using his "journal" written during the war and his
                    recollections.
            In the first and second installments of Burke's journal his enlistment, his participation in
                    Morgan's Raid, his time in Camp Morton, and his imprisonment at Camp Douglas until the
                    first anniversary of his capture at Buffington Island are among the events recorded.2 This installment covers six more months at Camp Douglas, from July 20 through December 31,
                    1864—a total of seventy manuscript pages. A final installment scheduled for the June,
                    1971, issue of the Indium Magazine of History will complete Burke's record, which stops
                    just after the end of the war.
            
               
                  ∗ Richard A. Misselhorn is professor of oral diagnosis at the
                        Indiana University School of Dentistry, Indianapolis. Dr. Misselhorn owns the existing journal
                        and it is published with his permission.
               
                  1 Information about Morgan's Raid and other episodes of
                        Morgan's life is avail able in Basil W. Duke, A History of
                            Morgan's Cavalry (Bloomington, 1960).
               
                  2 See Pamela J. Bennett (ed.), "Curtis R. Burke's Civil
                        War Journal," Indiana Magazine of History, LXV (December, 1969),
                        283-327; LXVI (June, 1970), 110-72.
            
            
            There is much of daily prison routine in the months at Douglas, but there is also much interesting
                    material about Burke, health conditions and practices, and events and attitudes which are probably
                    most characteristic of a Civil War prison. Burke records much detail about documents, men alive and
                    dead, events in the prison, and war news which was usually available through the Chicago newspapers
                    sold by the sutler—except apparently when the Confederate army had a significant victory.
                    After October, 1864, daily entries almost always mention the prevalence of smallpox in the camp; on
                    December 8 Burke wrote: "I understand the prisoners are dying at the smallpox hospital at
                    the rate of 8 per day" (p. 374). Besides sickness there are also the pervading frustrations
                    of exchange rumors, frequent inspections, and the constant threat of confiscation of clothes.
                    Although the hardship of short rations is also present, it seems typical of Burke that he manages to
                    pull together a sumptuous Christmas feast, the leftovers of which serve him and his friend Henry
                    White for a week.
            Perhaps most typical of Burke, however, is his frequently mentioned ardent anti-North sentiment. He
                    ridicules the inept Yankee guards and expresses scorn for prisoners who take the Federal Oath of
                    Allegiance and for the Confederate workmen for "humbling themselves to the Yanks"
                    (p. 340). When his mother moves to Ohio, Burke writes that it was "for the present only, as
                    Pa says he cannot live north and will not! And I say the same" (p. 321). Whether or not he
                    had mellowed with age, Burke much later did move north to Indianapolis, that city which initiated
                    his long acquaintance with Federal prison camps.
            
            
                    Curtis R. Burke's Journal
                    1
                
            [On July 20 Burke says 130 more prisoners arrive in camp; thirteen more men are placed in his
                    barrack.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Thursday July 21st, 1864. Weather windy and a little cool. The health of the camp has
                                    been tolerable good for the last month or so, but there is a good many of the new
                                    prisoners sick, and there is no medicines in the drug store, and the Yankees say
                                    that they cannot furnish any.2 There is some talk in camp of
                                    raising a collection and send to Chicago for medicines. I have a bad cold and
                                    coughed nearly all night.
                        Friday July 22d, 1864. Weather pleasant. We are having very light breakfasts and not
                                    much heavier dinners. I bought a lot of note paper at the sutler at the rate of 40
                                    cents per quire. Some of the men with permission gave our leaky roof a fresh coat of
                                    pitch. The following is a notice copied from the Chicago Tribune: A Washington
                                    dispatch says that Capt. A. H. De Land and Lieut. Moses A. Powell 1st Michigan
                                    sharpshooters, arrived here on the 15th. under guard from Gen. Grant's
                                    army, under sentence of court martial for cowardice in the face of the enemy. The
                                    sentence cashiered both, with the loss of all pay and allowances due them, and
                                    ordered their shoulder straps and buttons to be cut off in the presence of the
                                    troops. Capt. 
                              
                                 1 In editing this journal the typescript has been
                                            followed exactly except as here indicated. Dates for the entries in the
                                            typescript are located on the right side of the page and divide the entries;
                                            dates are relocated in the text published here primarily to save space. When
                                            possible without distortion, Burke's lists have been paragraphed
                                            and appropriate punctuation has been added. Reproduced notices, songs, and
                                            documents in the journal have been set here in reduced type. Only a few
                                            obvious typing errors have been corrected; otherwise misspellings have been
                                            allowed to remain. Confusing spellings usually have a suggested alternative
                                            in brackets. Capitalization is unchanged. Burke's use of the
                                            apostrophe in the possessive is quite erratic; the typescript is followed
                                            without change. Occasional repetitions have been omitted. Names and place
                                            names supplied or identified from an outside source are given correctly in
                                            notes. Where text has been omitted in the journal published here,
                                            significant events are briefly summarized within brackets. These summaries
                                            include only events which Burke's journal relates. Page numbers
                                            from the typescript are indicated in parentheses when the journal is quoted
                                            in the summaries. A row of spaced periods indicates that entries have been
                                            omitted and that summaries have been judged unnecessary. The consistent
                                            dating readily indicates the total time lapse of both summaries and
                                            omissions. Notes are entirely omitted for various names and events which
                                            could not be adequately identified.
                              
                                 2 A medical report of July 24-25, 1864, indicates that
                                            hospital supplies, including medicine, were "good."
                                            However, by September 4 an inspection report indicates that supplies of
                                            medicine were deficient. Another report from October 31 indicates that in
                                            August at Camp Douglas "The requisitions for medicines for use of
                                            the prisoners of war were not promptly filled; the consequence, more
                                            sickness and more death." The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation
                                            of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies (70 vols.,
                                            Washington, 1880-1901), Ser. II, Vol. VII, 496-98, 767, 1067. The set is
                                            cited hereafter as Official Records.
                           
                                     De Land goes to the Dry Fortugas.3 Such is the fate of the men who assisted in tieing up prisoners by their
                                    thumbs to extract secrets, or supposed secrets last fall in this camp. We all say
                                    Amen.
                        Saturday July 23d, 1864. Weather pleasant. The express list is a yard long. A
                                    prisoner while walking in camp dropped down and died in a few minutes after of heart
                                    trouble. Our barrack was well scoured out by the detail today. I have been writing
                                    most of the day to catch up in my journal and to keep from loosing my scattered
                                    items. My mother and family not knowing how long the war would last have left
                                    Lexington, Ky. and moved to Medina Go. Ohio in the neighborhood of her relations and
                                    purchased a little home for the present only, as Pa says he cannot live north and
                                    will not! And I say the same.
                        [On July 25 Burke writes, "Rumor says that Grant died and Sherman4 has been defeated, also that several generals have resigned,
                                    but we doubt it" (p. 321).]
                        Tuesday July 26th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I drew my ten dollar check in sutler
                                    tickets and divided with Pa. I got the sutler, Mr. Nightingale to try to buy some
                                    small Yankee staff buttons, two skeins of yellow sewing silk and a quarter of a yard
                                    of bright yellow cloth, in the city to trim my new uniform gray jacket with. I had
                                    to buy Yankee buttons or none. I told him that I would pay him for his trouble, and
                                    gave him four dollars to buy them with, expecting to have what was left returned. I
                                    wrote to Uncle Wm. H. Burke of Canton, Ohio. Old Jerry Murphy had to ride the
                                        mule5 for breaking the order, not allowing the planks in the
                                    bottom bunks to be nailed down. The papers give the particulars of Gen.
                                    Hunter's late defeat in the Shenandoah valley Va.6
                                    Confederate bonds are worth 74 cents in 
                              
                                 3 The Tribune was the leading
                                            Republican newspaper in Chicago. J. Cutler Andrews, The North
                                                Reports the Civil War (Pittsburgh, 1955), 28. Hooker A. De Land was
                                            captain of Company A, First Michigan Sharpshooters. Official
                                                Records, Ser. II, Vol. VI, 860. The Dry Tortugas are islands west
                                            of the southern tip of Florida. Federal General Ulysses S. Grant with the
                                            Army of the Potomac was engaged in a long campaign in the Virginia
                                            area-often called the Petersburg Campaign—with Confederate
                                            General Robert E. Lee and the Army of Northern Virginia. Mark Mayo Boatner
                                            III, The Civil War Dictionary (New York, 1959), 353, 477,
                                            646-47.
                              
                                 4 Federal General William T. Sherman was in Georgia
                                            conducting the campaign to seize Atlanta. Boatner, The Civil
                                                War Dictioncry, 31-24.
                              
                                 5 On June 28, 1864, Burke notes that "The
                                            Yanks have fixed a frame near the gate with a scantling across it edge up,
                                            and about four feet from the ground, which they made our men ride whenever
                                            the men do anything that does not please them. It is called ‘The
                                            mule.’ … It is like riding a sharp top
                                            fence." Pamela J. Bennett (ed.), "Curtis R.
                                            Burke's Civil War Journal," Indiana Magazine of History,
                                            LXVI (June, 1970), 164.
                              
                                 6 On July 23-24 Confederate General Jubal A. Early on
                                            his Washington Raid defeated Federal General David Hunter's forces
                                            under General George Crook at Kernstown, Virginia. Boatner, The
                                                Civil War Dictionary, 256-57.
                           
                                     England.7 The day has been
                                    very warm. In the night Ben. Watkins Co. A. became very sick and Pa went in search
                                    of one of the rebel Doctors, and soon returned with Dr. Flag who came in grumbling
                                    because he was called on. He said that he had no medicine and left hardly giving his
                                    advice. All of our Doctors deserve censure for their neglect of duty for some time
                                    past. They might advise if they were short of medicines.
                        Wednesday July 27th, 1864. Weather warm. Confederate bonds in England went up to 78
                                    and 80 cents. Grant has not taken Petersburg nor Sherman Atlanta. Almost every
                                    article in the paper winds up with a pitiful howl for more men and money, men
                                    especially. The flux epidemic is increasing. The prison rules are getting more
                                    rigid.
                        Thursday July 28th, 1864. Weather warm. I got my trimmings, and was surprised when
                                    the sutler told me that the bill took all I had given him. I was satisfied that they
                                    did not cost more than half of what I had given him allowing more than twice their
                                    usual price, but I had to be satisfied, or as the Yanks say, "I want to be
                                    satisfied." He took the opportunity of paying himself well for his trouble.
                                    I bought some note paper, blacking, and a tin cup, which finished my five dollars in
                                    a hurry. 175 new prisoners arrived today. Gen. Hunter has been defeated again. Mrs.
                                    Wm. Brown arrived at headquarters with her children to see her husband who belonged
                                    to Barnes Battery,8 but she came too late. The green sod has
                                    just been turned over her unfortunate husband. By some means she was out of money
                                    and unable to get back to her home in Georgia. The prisoners heard of it and
                                    determined to assist her. David Hickey, Levi Hickey, Winder Monroe and others
                                    interested themselves in her behalf by soliciting subcriptions from the prisoners.
                                    They raised $116.35, which was sent to her and she received it with many
                                    thanks, expressing a hope that she might have the opportunity of returning the favor
                                    to some of her kind friends. She took the list of the donors also.
                        Sunday July 31st, 1864. Weather pleasant. Ben. Watkins of Co. A died at the hospital
                                    last night. I learn that there were thirteen deaths 
                              
                                 7 Presumably these are bonds first issued in March,
                                            1863, which were part of a contract for a fifteen million dollar loan. They
                                            were underwritten by the French banking firm of Emile Erlanger &
                                            Company. Clement Eaton, A History of The southern
                                            Confederacy (New York. 1954), 236-37.
                              
                                 8 A battery commanded by Edward P. Byrne (or Byrnes)
                                            was part of the southern force which Morgan joined with in September, 1861,
                                            in Kentucky. He escaped at Buffington Island. Basil W. Duke, A
                                                History of Morgan's Cavalry (Bloomington, 1960), 91,
                                        453.
                           
                                     of rebs at the hospital last night. The
                                    workhands and public details do not work on Sundays. It rained a little before
                                    dinner. I hear singing in the infantry barracks nearly every Sunday. I suppose they
                                    have preaching. I have never visited them to see. We have not had a sermon or even a
                                    hymn since we moved into this barrack. It rained part of the night.
                        Monday August 1st, 1864. Weather cloudy and raining a little. About 400 more
                                    prisoners arrived. They are from our army in Georgia and are in better spirits than
                                    the previous lots. They say that they got plenty to eat and coffee every few days,
                                    with whiskey in bad weather. They say the army is in good spirits.
                        Thursday August 4th, 1864. Weather pleasant. It is the Fourteenth's writing
                                    day. I wrote to Dr. John R. Desha of Lexington, Ky. Mrs. Sarah B. Waller9 of Chicago sent a letter to John Waller of my company
                                    requesting the prisoners to contribute some curiosities of their own manufacture to
                                    be sent to a fair to be held in Liverpool, England for the Confederate prisoners
                                    benefit.
                        Saturday August 6th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I got Pa (an ex-tailor) to trim my
                                    uniform. Rumor says that 30,000 prisoners are to be exchanged soon.10 There were two candles burning all night, and several of the men sat up
                                    with the sick flux patients. The barrack assumes the appearance of a hospital.
                                    Permission to have a light is often given in cases of extreme illness. I did not
                                    sleep much.
                        Sunday August 7th, 1864. Weather pleasant. Everybody walks light and speaks in
                                    whispers on account of the sick. About 11 o'clock John Duckworth of Co. D
                                    died, and about 3 o'clock Jesse T. Hunter of Co. D died. Both died in their
                                    bunks of the flux. They were good soldiers and gentlemen. Duckworth is from Bath Co.
                                    Ky. and Hunter is from Wilkerson Co. Miss. They received all the attention that
                                    could be 
                              
                                 9 A Mrs. Sarah B. Walker, "a Southern
                                            lady" in Chicago, "was appointed agent … for
                                            distributing goods to those [prisoners] in camp" during the spring
                                            of 1865. Presumably she is the same woman to whom Burke refers. Alfred T.
                                            Andreas. History of Chicago. From the Earliest Period to the
                                                Present Time (3 vols., Chicago, 1885), II, 303.
                              
                                 10 On August 10, 1864, Robert Ould, Confederate agent
                                            of exchange, agreed to an "officer for officer and man for
                                            man" exchange, but Federal authorities backed down. William Best
                                            Hesseltine. Civil War Prisons: A Study in War Psychology
                                            (New York, 1964; first published, 1930), 222-26; Official
                                                Records, Ser. II, Vol. VII, 578.
                           
                                     given them under the circumstances. Medicines
                                    of the right kind could not be procured. The hospitals are crowded and that is the
                                    reason why the men are allowed to die in the barracks. There are a good many more
                                    sick but none dangerously. This barrack raised $14 by subscription and
                                    got a small basket of medicines from the city with it. Several other barracks have
                                    bought medicines for their own use, to be kept in their barracks. After the bodies
                                    had been washed and laid out, an ambulance came for them. They were put in rough
                                    coffins and taken off.
                        [On August 9 Burke reports that "There is a large stone observatory and
                                    building being erected near the camp as an addition to the Douglas Institute. The
                                    observatory is already higher than the Institute" (p. 3251. 11 On August 10 all benches and stools are taken from the barracks.
                                    Walking around the prison camp is a widespread exercise according to Burke. Burke
                                    mentions on August 12 that an express board in camp "is always full of
                                    notice of all kinds miscellaneous letter lists, articles lost or found, wanted or
                                    for sale, inquiries for friends, etc." (p. 326). Each barrack kitchen is
                                    getting a brick chimney.]
                        Sunday August 14th, 1864. Weather pleasant. Gen. Prentiss visited the camp and I
                                    heard him chat awhile with a small crowd of the prisoners. He said, "It
                                    will not last long." in answer to a remark that we were very tired of this
                                    place. I suppose he thinks the rebs will soon give up. He was accompanied by an
                                    officer from the other square, and as he turned to go he dropped the Chicago Times
                                    in the crowd either accidentally or intentionally, we could not determine which. At
                                    least it furnished quite a discussion whether Gen. Prentiss was a copperhead or
                                        not.12 5,000 Yankee troops are reported coming to Chicago.
                                    Part of them have already arrived. The Times thinks they are to be used to awe the
                                    coming Convention of Democrats.13
                        
                        Monday August 15th, 1864. Weather warm. I succeeded in getting off a letter to John
                                    Cantillon of Richmond, Ky. that I wrote on the 4th inst. Some of the new prisoners
                                    still hang around the barracks begging the refuse meat and bread. They have not worn
                                    the wire edge off of their appetites yet. In my evening walk I visited the barrack
                                    No 44, where the workhands eat. I saw six long tables and 
                              
                                 11 The "stone observatory and
                                            building" at the "Douglas Institute" refers to
                                            the Dearborn Observatory for viewing the heavens being built at the old
                                            University of Chicago. Larry A. Viskochil to Pamela J. Bennett, August 13,
                                            1970. Mr. Viskochil is reference librarian for the Chicago Historical
                                            Society.
                              
                                 12 General Benjamin M. Prentiss resigned from the army
                                            on October 28, 1863, to resume an Illinois law practice. Boatner, The Civil War Dictionary, 667-68. The Chicago Times was a pro-Southern paper. Andrews, The North
                                                Reports the Civil War, 34.
                              
                                 13 The Democratic party held its convention in Chicago
                                            on August 29 and nominated General George B. McClellan and George H.
                                            Pendleton of Ohio to run in the November presidential election. J. G.
                                            Randall and David Donald, The Civil War and Reconstruction
                                            (Boston, 1961), 474.
                           
                                     benches. They get coffee, sugar, etc. regular.
                                    I notice a good many puny-pale-gosling looking boys on guard on the parapet. I
                                    understand they are one hundred day men.14
                        
                        Tuesday August 16th, 1864. Weather pleasant. Some of the prisoners thrashed a
                                    deserter by the name of Burns, who has been recruiting secretly in prison for the
                                    Yankees. I saw some prisoners walking back and forward across the square with their
                                    heads sticking out of boxes and barrels with a large placard on each for different
                                    offences, viz: "For disobeying orders." "For washing in
                                    barrack." "Lousy" "For meddling with other
                                    people's business." "For going to the other
                                    square". etc. About 12 o'clock it clouded up and became very
                                    windy. The card fevor broke out this evening. There is six games now going on in the
                                    barrack.
                        Wednesday August 17th, 1864. Weather windy and a little cool. I received a letter
                                    from Uncle Wm. H. Burke of Canton Ohio. The papers have a great deal to say about
                                    the coming Chicago Convention. The Confederate ship Tallahassee lately cantured 31
                                    shipspon the coast. Most of them small crafts.15 There was a
                                    good many visitors from the city in Camp with guard escorts, late this evening.16
                        
                        Thursday August 18th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I was knocking around the sutler store
                                    to see what was going on, when a Yank stole a march on myself and three others and
                                    conscripted us to pile up some loose bricks near the gate, which took about ten
                                    minutes. An order was issued to take the stoves from the barrack kitchens.17 The Confederate 
                              
                                 14 In April, 1864, the governors of Ohio, Indiana,
                                            Illinois, Iowa, and Wisconsin worked out an agreement to supply a certain
                                            quota of fully equipped troops for 100 days' service in order to
                                            relieve more experienced troops for combat duty. See W. H. H. Terrell, Indiana in the War of the Rebellion (Indianapolis, 1960),
                                            43-48.
                              
                                 15 Commander J. Taylor Wood of the C. S. S.
                                            Tallahassee reported on August 31, 1864, a total of thirty-one vessels
                                            captured between August 11 and 20. Official Records of the
                                                Union and Confederate Navies in the War of the Rebellion (30 vols.,
                                            Washington, 1894-1922), Ser. I, Vol. 3, pp. 701-704.
                              
                                 16 Apparently, "young people would spend
                                            Sundays taking horse cars out to the camp. If one could get a pass to enter
                                            the gates, one could actually see the prisoners close up." E. B.
                                            Long, "Camp Douglas: ‘A Hellish
                                            Den’?" Chicago History, I, n.s.,
                                            (Fall, 1970), 87.
                              
                                 17 Colonel William Hoffman, Federal commissary general
                                            of prisoners, ordered the use of Farmer's boilers for barracks
                                            cooking on October 24, 1863. Although the commander of the camp, Charles V.
                                            De Land, preferred brick ranges, the boilers were adopted for their alleged
                                            economy for the Federal government. Hoffman described the method to De Land:
                                            "The Farmer boilers … are found to be the most
                                            convenient mode of cooking …. A sixty-gallon boiler, which will
                                            cost $25 to $35, will cook for 120 men, with a very
                                            small supply of wood, and there can be no plan so cheap. By this mode the
                                            cooking is all done alike, at the same time, and by two or three
                                            men…. [avoiding] the use of camp kettles, pots, frying pans,
                                            &c., and the presence at the range of a crowd of men cooking for
                                            themselves." Official Records, Ser. II, Vol. VI,
                                            417, 462-63, 490. No mention of this later order has been located in the Official Records.
                              
                           
                                     sergeants of the barracks and also the Doctors
                                    signed a petition t~ Major Skinner to keep the stoves, as follows: 
                                        Major Bkinner Commissary of Prisoners.
                                        The undersigned Sergeants for the several barracks for themselves, and, for
                                            their fellow prisoners confined in Camp Douglas, would most respectfully
                                            represent unto the Authorities in charge, that they have heard with the
                                            deepest regret, that it is intended to take away from them the cooking
                                            stoves, thereby reducing them to one Boiler in each kitchen for cooking
                                            purposes. It is known to the authorities, that a large number of sick is
                                            now, and has been for some time, in consequence of the crowded state of the
                                            Hospital, left to the kindness and care of comrades in Barracks.
                                        By means of the cooking stoves, delicacies suitable to their condition can be
                                            prepared. But the boiler would be wholly inadequate to this purpose! and
                                            even in the event of the enlargement of Hospital accomodations, or an
                                            improved state of health in the Camp, there will always be a number of
                                            prisoners whose condition might not demand treatment in the Hospital, yet
                                            require delicacies which cannot be prepared for them in the absence of the
                                            cooking stove. The undersigned, therefore, most respectfully petition the
                                            authorities to allow them to retain one cooking stove to each barrack.
                                        [Burke indicates the signatures of forty-one men representing forty-four
                                            barracks. The majority are from Kentucky regiments, but also represented are
                                            Alabama, Georgia, Louisiana, Mississippi, Missouri, North Carolina,
                                            Tennessee, Texas, and Virginia.]
                                        We the attending Surgeons to prisoners in barracks would especially ask
                                            permission that one cooking stove be allowed to remain in each kitchen for
                                            the following reasons: The Hospital is so crowded that not more than eight
                                            or ten men can be sent out of the barracks a day. Those that remain are
                                            generally too sick to eat the diet cooked and it is almost essential to have
                                            a stove to cook something a sick man can eat.
                                        Respectfully, John L. Cook, Surg. to Prisoners C. S. Brunson, M.
                                            D. T. P. Holloway, M. D.
                                        Answer! Respectfully returned. This petition cannot be granted.
                                        L. C. Skinner Lt. Col. & Com. of Pris.
                                    
                        
                        It is one year today since we entered this camp, and it seems as if we were never
                                    going to get out again.
                        
                                    Though prison walls now hold we fast, In dreams, I wander to the past To places
                                        near and dear to me; To places where I would be free.
                                
                        Friday August 19th, 1864. Weather pleasant. Pa and myself received a box containing a
                                    cheese, some pickles, potatoes, dried fruit, 
                                    etc. Late in the evening two Yanks came around to most of the Barracks and read an
                                    order of which the following is a correct copy.18
                        
                        
                                    Office of Inspect. Gen. of Prisoners Camp Douglas. Chicago, III.
                                    Aug. 19th, 1864.
                                    Notice to Prisoners of War.
                                    A circular has been issued by the commissary of prisoners, to the effect that no
                                        supplies of any kind will be allowed to Prisoners of war by their relatives or
                                        friends, except in cases of illness, when near relatives will be permitted to
                                        send them such articles of food as the Surgeon of the hospital may approve, the
                                        articles to be addressed to him, necessary clothing furnished by relatives to
                                        destitute prisoners must be subject to the approval of the commanding officer of
                                        the post where they are confined. Outer garments must be of gray or dark mixed
                                        color, or of inferior quality, only one suit of outer clothing and a change of
                                        under clothing will be allowed prisoners of war. Will be allowed to receive
                                        clothing or other articles from relatives and friends residing beyond the lines,
                                        when forwarded by a flag of truce, so long as the prisoners of war held at
                                        Richmond and other southern prisons are permitted to receive the same articles
                                        in the same manner from relatives and friends in the loyal states. No articles
                                        above referred to will be delivered to prisoners of war at this post after Aug.
                                        25th, 1864.
                                    Well[s] Sponable Capt. & Inspector Gen. of Prisoners.
                                
                        [On August 22 Burke reports that "A good deal of flour, cabbage, potatoes,
                                    and pickles was sent to the prisoners through the kindness of Mrs. Norrus of Chicago
                                    from some person or persons yet unknown" (pp. 331-32). He mentions that
                                    "The papers say the advance guard of the Chicago Convention has
                                    arrived" (p. 332). Yankee doctors are reportedly vaccinating for smallpox
                                    on August 23.]
                        Wednesday August 24th, 1864. Weather pleasant. 480 prisoners arrived from the Alton,
                                    Ill. prison, twenty escaped on the way here.19 They are a good
                                    looking lot of men and bring exchange rumors. They were quartered in barracks 41, 43
                                    and 44. The workhands dining room being broken up to make room for them. The
                                    workhands had their coffee, sugar, etc. issued to them at the gate uncooked. The
                                    barracks on both sides of us drew plates, etc. but some person told the Yanks that
                                    we had plenty and none were issued to us. Report says that they are not going to
                                    give Kentuckians any. We hardly need them anyhow for the rations we are getting. I
                                    and Henry washed 8 pieces of clothing today.
                        
                           
                              18 This is a paraphrase of Circular No. 4 of August 10,
                                        1864, from Hoffman. Part II of the circular limits sutlers to "writing
                                        materials, postage stamps, to bacco, cigars, pipes, matches, combs, soap, tooth
                                        brushes, hair brushes, clothes brushes, scissors, thread, and needles,
                                        handkerchiefs, towels, and pocket looking-glasses" for sale to
                                        prisoners. Ibid., Vol. VII, 573-74.
                           
                              19 One of the principal twenty-three Federal military
                                        prisons at this time was at Alton, Illinois. Records indicate that 503 prisoners
                                        were transferred from Alton in August, 1864. Ibid., Vol. VIII,
                                        997.
                        
                        
                        Friday August 26th, 1864. Weather pleasant. It was rumored that we would be searched,
                                    so we all dressed up, but the day passed off as usual. I heard car bells and trains
                                    running nearly all night. When the nights are clear I can distinctly hear some of
                                    the City clocks strike.
                        Saturday August 27th, 1864. Weather a little cool. After roll call all of the bottles
                                    and old cloths that the guard could find in the barrack was thrown out, and the
                                    barrack scoured by a detail, The Inspectors said we had the cleanest kitchen and
                                    barrack in camp.20 In the front part of camp a fire plug was put
                                    in between two of the hydrants, and a small force pump attached with about 700 feet
                                    of gum hose and a small nozzle. Its trial attracted a large crowd of prisoners and
                                    the Yankee amused himself by wetting a good many of them. It could only throw about
                                    50 feet. We are all ordered to dress up tomorrow. Jas. McDevitt bet Hiram Arnett
                                    $100 in Confederate money that we will not be in this camp two months
                                    from today. Jack Curd holds the stakes.
                        Sunday August 28th, 1864. Weather pleasant. At roll call we were notified to fall in
                                    line again at 8 o'clock a. m. with our best cloths on under penalty of
                                    loosing them if found in the barrack. The bugle sounded at the appointed time, and
                                    we fell in line and were looked at by Capt. Sponable and a Lieutenant as they passed
                                    in front of our lines. The kitchen and barrack was examined by other Yanks and the
                                    inspection was soon over. Our kitchen and barrack received the name of being the
                                    cleanest in camp. In the evening Gen. Rosecrans21 and others
                                    rode through the camp in a barouche. The Union Observatory near the Cottage Grove
                                    Hotel on Lake street opposite the camp, has been unusually crowded today. They are
                                    having a look at us.22 The convention tomorrow serves the whole
                                    trope of conversation in camp today. I saw some rockets go up late in the night.
                        Monday August 29th, 1864. Weather pleasant. For some time past there has been from 10
                                    to 15 men in the barrack unable to attend roll 
                              
                                 20 Interestingly, a January 18, 1864, inspection
                                            report complained that "The barracks and grounds in the northwest
                                            square, occupied by Morgan's men, were pre-eminently
                                            filthy." Ibid., Vol. VI, 849.
                              
                                 21 General William Starke Rosecrans was at this time
                                            in command of the Department of the Missouri. Boatner, The
                                                Civil War Dictionary, 708.
                              
                                 22 "A tall observatory tower, opposite the
                                            main gate … faced the public road in front of the camp."
                                            Joseph E. Eisendrath, Jr., "Chicago's Camp Douglas,
                                            1861-1865," Journal of the Illinois State Historical
                                                Society, LIII (Spring, 1960), 39. A photograph ibid., 40, shows the tower in a drawing of Camp Douglas. Apparently it
                                            was this tower from which for a dime one could "climb and stand on
                                            a platform overlooking the pen, as if peering at animals in a zoo."
                                            Long, "Camp Douglas," 87.
                           
                                     call. Corporal Norton's time being out
                                    he quit, and Corporal Brooks took his place to call our roll. The guard Jas. Terpin
                                    made his usual address to us ending with if you don't do so and so you will
                                    be severely punished. All provisions that come now are sent or turned over to the
                                    Yankee post surgeon for the hospital. For the Yankee hospital I suppose.
                        Tuesday August 30th, 1864. Weather pleasant. A scaling ladder nearly finished was
                                    found in barrack No. 1 and the whole squad was marched to the gate. The man that
                                    made it was found and made to finish it. It was then placed against the express
                                    office and he was sentenced to climb up and down it eight hours every day for thirty
                                    days as a punishment. I noticed while taking my morning walk a good many tents
                                    through the crevices in the fence on the west side of camp. I understand there is
                                    artillery placed at several points outside, bearing on the camp. The sutler has
                                    nearly played out. He has nothing to eat except sugar at 70 cents
                                    per pound. We are getting boiled beef and sour light bread six days out of ten, and
                                    boiled pickle pork and sour light bread the other four and coarse hominy for dinner
                                    extra. A Yankee came around with some requisition papers and all the men in this
                                    barrack signed them twice for plates, cups, knives and forks, which the Yankee said
                                    we would draw soon. The Convention has not nominated their candidate yet. We cannot
                                    hear anything satisfactory from it.
                        Wednesday August 31st, 1864. Weather pleasant. Nothing of interest. Most of the
                                    prisoners seem to think that Seymour23 will be nominated. Of
                                    course, we have no choice but will throw up our hats for any man that brings about a
                                    general exchange and get us out of this place. We have seen rockets from the city
                                    for the last three or four nights.
                        Thursday September 1st, 1864. Weather pleasant. At roll call notice was given to have
                                    all of the long hair cut by next Sunday. The guard appointed John Curd barber, with
                                    the understanding that for every ten men he operated on he was to be excused from
                                    detail one day. The papers say that Geo. B. McClellen and Geo. H. Pendleton are the
                                    Chicago nominees for the next President and Vice-president of the United States. My
                                    rations have taken a notion to disagree with me, causing me to feel unwell all day.
                        
                           
                              23 Presumably this refers to Horatio Seymour, then
                                        governor of New York, who was opposed to the Lincoln government. Randall and
                                        Donald, The Civil War and Reconstruction, 316-17.
                        
                        
                        Tuesday September 6th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I am on the waste water detail today.
                                    Nothing of interest. Chas. Byrnes and six or seven others were slipped upon by two
                                    Yanks about dark and taken down to ride the mule for talking in
                                    their bunks. In about an hour after we all heard a great racket. I looked out
                                    thinking the Yanks were on a spree, and were kicking down some kitchen or barrack
                                    doors. I saw the flash and heard the reports of five or six pistol shots between the
                                    kitchens in the next row. All of this time I heard the guard on the parapet yelling
                                    for the corporal of the guard at the top of his voice. By this time the noise at the
                                    fence ceased and all was quiet except the guard on the fence who was still calling
                                    for the corporal of the guard. In a few minutes the Yanks were going around with
                                    lamps in camp and outside the fence also. I heard no one hollow and concluded that
                                    no one was hurt. We could not tell how many escaped.
                        Wednesday September 7th, 1864. Weather cloudy. Six men reported to have escaped last
                                    night. They charged the fence with two axes and one striking right handed and the
                                    other left handed soon broke a plank in two large enough to get out. I only saw two
                                    shots that were within three feet of the hole. Bad shots for fifty yards. This is
                                    the Fourteenth writing day. I wrote to Norris & Bro. of Lexington Ky. Our
                                    regiment was vaccinated and I washed mine off and squeezed it to keep it from
                                    taking. For I would rather run the risk of the smallpox than have the sore that some
                                    of them have on their arms. It rained most all day.
                        Thursday September 8th, 1864. Weather pleasant. At roll call notice was given that no
                                    more promenading around the camp between the barracks and the dead line would be
                                    allowed, and all persons caught on such ground will be liable to be shot without
                                    notice, so our morning and evening walks are played out unless we choose to walk up
                                    and down the streets. It is reported that an agreement had been made between both
                                    governments to release all men in dungeons and chains.24 Our
                                    dungeon was emptied and Jos. McCarney of whom I spoke some 
                              
                                 24 According to a circular issued from the office of
                                            the Federal commissary general and dated September 3, 1864, "In
                                            pursuance of instructions received from the Secretary of War all prisoners
                                            of war now held in close confinement or irons will be immediately released
                                            from such confinement and placed on the footing of other prisoners of
                                            war." Official Records, Ser. II, Vol. VII, 714.
                                            In a letter to Hoffman dated August 26 it is stated that the Confederate
                                            agent for exchange Ould, suggested this proceeding for "
                                            ‘all prisoners of war on each side
                                            ….’" Ibid., 683. Two
                                            letters stating acceptance by Edwin M. Stanton, secretary of war, of the
                                            proposal are printed, Ibid., 714-15.
                           
                                     time ago had his ball and chain taken off. Some
                                    times we hear reasonable exchange rumors, but they are as often dashed to pieces in
                                    an hour, yet we hope for.
                        
                                    Hope! is the watchword of the heart; Before it sorrow flies! In life it bears a
                                        noble part, With death alone it dies.
                                
                        Friday September 9th, 1864. Weather pleasant. Most of the men that have escaped
                                    lately have been recaptured. There is a report in the papers that Gen. John H.
                                    Morgan was killed at Greenville, Tenn. and all of his staff captured by a surprise
                                        attack.25 We are not inclined to believe it yet.
                        Saturday September 10th, 1864. Weather pleasant. Six shots from artillery just out
                                    side the camp was fired. I supposed at first the Yanks had some good news, but as
                                    only six were fired we concluded that they were only clearing out their guns. The
                                    Barrack received a good scouring from the detail. It is two years today since I took
                                    the Confederate oath, signed the roll and donned a gray uniform, fully equipped, and
                                    I have never for one moment regretted that act of my life. There is another large
                                    hospital in progress of erection in the other square near the Confederate hospital
                                    and is about twice as large. It is to contain eight or ten wards and is for the
                                    Yankees.
                        Wednesday September 14th, 1864. Weather pleasant. At roll call two orders were read
                                    to all the prisoners, 1st. That all prisoners of war who wish to join a regiment of
                                    United States Cavalry, to fight the Indians can do so by reporting at the express
                                        office.26 2d. That all prisoners of war who are mechanics
                                    and workmen who have applied for the oath or will apply and who desire to work can
                                    do so by reporting at the express office. There was a large crowd around the express
                                    office all day. I cannot learn how many joined.
                        Thursday September 15th, 1864. Weather a little cool. One half a bushel of potatoes
                                    were issued to this barrack for 170 men for five days. We are inclined now to
                                    believe that Morgan our general is dead. All the men call for Basil Duke the next in
                                    command to lead us here- 
                              
                                 25 Morgan was killed on September 4, 1864. Most of his
                                            staff and troops apparently escaped and command was given to Brigadier
                                            General Basil W. Duke. Duke, A History of Morgan's
                                                Cavalry, 539-42.
                              
                                 26 An expedition to fight the Indians in Minnesota had
                                            apparently been organized under General Lewis Wallace in September, 1862.
                                            Official Records, Ser. II, Vol. IV, 622, 669-71. No information on this 1864
                                            plan has been located.
                           
                                     after. We all have a great deal of confidence
                                    in him as an able and worthy leader. We deeply mourn the loss of John H. Morgan.
                        Friday September 16th, 1864. Weather pleasant. Old Red alias O'Hara27 broke up religious meetings in barracks 13 and 25, and said
                                    that if he caught any more singing and praying in the barracks he would put them in
                                    irons. Some of the men then saw Capt. Sponable about it, and he told them that the
                                    guard had no orders to break up such meetings, but that he left such things to the
                                    guards and if they choose to break them up he would not interfere. O'Hara
                                    was put in prison in Chicago for some reason last spring and only returned a short
                                    time ago, but to our delight he was put to guard another barrack (No. 18) instead of
                                    coming back to us. I saw several wagon loads of straw ticks taken to barrack 41, the
                                    convalescent hospital, and counted 300 workmen or men that have applied for the
                                    oath, as they marched through the gate to their work in the Yankee square. They work
                                    every day except Sunday.
                        Saturday September 17th, 1864. Weather pleasant. The barrack was scoured out. We had
                                    hash for dinner, but hardly enough to do any good. We are getting boiled beef for
                                    dinner and breakfast eight days out of ten, and as we draw beef at dinner for
                                    breakfast also, we eat it all up for dinner without trouble and have bread and water
                                    for breakfast. Each kitchen is having a ventilator on top and the barracks two, and
                                    two brick chimneys for coal stoves this winter. A good many new two barrel boilers
                                    are being put in the place of old ones worn out, in the kitchen.28 It rained during the night.
                        Tuesday September 20th, 1864. Weather pleasant. It seems the Yankees were badly
                                    scared last night thinking that there was a plot among a good many of the prisoners
                                    to break out.29 I see notice of it in the papers today, also a
                                    notice that all prisoners of war unfit for the service are to be exchanged.30
                        
                        
                           
                              27 Burke describes O'Hara, one of his guards in
                                        April, 1864, earlier in the journal. Bennett, "Curtis R.
                                        Burke's Civil War Journal," 146.
                           
                              28 A weekly inspection report dated September 4, 1864,
                                        indicates that many "of the Farmer's boilers used for cooking
                                        are unfit for use." The September 11 report mentions that ventilators
                                        were being installed. The October 16 report states that "The chimneys
                                        are completed." Official Records, Ser. II, Vol. VII,
                                        767, 804, 994.
                           
                              29 Sweet corresponded with Hoffman on September 22 about
                                        "a plot … discovered on the part of the prisoners of war
                                        here to make a concerted and combined attempt to overcome the guard and escape
                                        at sundown" on September 19. Sweet had "determined to let them
                                        make the effort, punish them in the act, and … [make] dispositions
                                        accordingly. They suspected as much and failed to carry out their
                                        designs." Ibid., 861.
                           
                              30 Apparently the impetus to set up an exchange of unfit
                                        for duty prisoners
                        
                        
                        Wednesday September 21st, 1864. Weather pleasant. Craven Lane of Co. A died at the
                                    smallpox hospital last night. He is from Meade Co. Ky. He joined us on the last raid
                                    at Brandenburg, Ky. and was captured with us at Buffington Island, Ohio. Papers say
                                    that 1000 Confederate prisoners in two boats stopped at Fortress Monroe on their way
                                    to James river for exchange, also that 1200 more had left Nashville Tenn. for
                                    exchange at Atlanta Ga. and all others between the two places turned back to be
                                        exchanged.31 There was a delegation from the Federal
                                    prisoners at Andersonville, Ga. at Philadelphia on their way to see President
                                    Lincoln the other day about the prospects for an exchange. What success they met
                                    with has not been reported yet.32
                        
                        [On September 22 Burke asserts that the prisoners hate the Confederate work-hands
                                    "nearly as bad as Yankees for humbling themselves to the Yanks"
                                    (p. 340). Colonel Sweet comes into the camp on September 26 but is "soon
                                    driven out by the prisoners crying ‘More bread’,
                                    ‘More bread’ at him" (p. 340).]
                        Wednesday September 28th, 1864. Weather pleasant. We had a long roll call. All
                                    letters for express good now has to be approved by Lt. Fife before the goods will be
                                    allowed to be shipped or received. A large lot of lumber is being hauled into this
                                    square. Some orders printed on stiff paper were put on the doors of the different
                                    barracks. I neglected to secure a copy, but the following is the substance of the
                                    orders.
                        1st. That prisoners would, when destitute, be allowed to receive clothing to such an
                                    amount, that, what they had, and what they may receive, shall only make one suit of
                                    gray or dark goods and of inferior quality. One change of underclothing also
                                    allowed.
                        
                           was a letter from General Benjamin F. Butler, Federal commissioner of
                                        exchange, to Ould on September 9, 1864. It suggested "that the
                                        belligerent parties, waiving all other questions, shall from time to time
                                        exchange all sick and invalid officers and men who from wounds or sickness
                                        shall, in the judgment of the party holding them, be unfit for duty and likely
                                        to remain so for sixty days." Ibid., 793.
                           
                              31 A report of September 22 indicates that 500 Confederate
                                        prisoners unfit for duty were taken to Fortress Monroe on the steamer Dictator on September 18. They were exchanged at Bermuda
                                        Hundred, Virginia, on September 20. Ibid., 859. There was a
                                        Federal military prison in part of the Nashville Penitentiary. Ibid., 862. Sherman was in possession of Atlanta after the
                                        "Atlanta Campaign," which ended September 8. Boatner, The Civil War Dictionary, 34, 30-34.
                           
                              32 In mid-July, 1864, prisoners at Andersonville, Georgia,
                                        compiled a petition to Lincoln and the North detailing the horrible prison
                                        conditions and asking for immediate efforts for their release. Confederate
                                        authorities allegedly allowed six prisoners to take the document to Washington.
                                        Ovid L. Futch, History of Andersonville Prison (Gainesville,
                                        Fla., 1968), 44. See also Hesseltine, Civil War Prisons,
                                        204-205. Relevant documents are located in Official Records,
                                        Ser. II, Vol. VII, 615-23.
                        
                        
                        2d. Prisoners of war will be allowed to receive ticks, when straw will be furnished
                                    them.
                        3d. Prisoner,s of war will be allowed to receive overcoats, with this understanding,
                                    that in the event of an exchange, such overcoats will not be allowed to be taken to
                                    the Rebel Army.
                        
                        But a few prisoners will write for overcoats on such terms, but a good many will
                                    write for tickes. Some have them already and others can make them out of extra
                                    blankets.
                        Friday September 30th, 1864. Weather pleasant. Wm. Irvine of Co. I. 2d Ky.
                                    (Duke's) regiment made his escape in a singular way last night as follows:
                                    Yesterday he was lightly nailed up in a vinegar barrel in the kitchen belonging to
                                    his barrack, and a stout man carried it down to the gate with apparently as much
                                    ease as if it was empty, where he was told to put it on a pile a little distance
                                    inside the gate in the Yankee square. After dark Irvine kicked the weak head out and
                                    found but little difficulty in escaping from the lightly guarded square. He was
                                    dressed for the purpose, and was a light made man. The Yankee doctors are examining
                                    and taking down the names of the prisoners sick or unfit for the service to exchange
                                    them. A good many of our boys are sounding about for some kind of an excuse that
                                    will get their names on the list. I did not rest well during the night.
                        Sunday October 2d, 1864. Weather cool and cloudy. I felt very weak. I and my partner
                                    concluded that we would finish our job in one load, so we filled our barrel and
                                    before we reached the sink it became too much for me and I took the blind staggers
                                    for a few minutes. After we were counted off at roll call I obtained permission to
                                    leave the line and enter the barrack. My breakfast of cold bread and water did not
                                    help me any, so when inspection came I staid in and had a light chill. The
                                    inspection was a long one. After dinner a Yankee doctor came in to examine the sick.
                                    The well men were turned out of the barrack into line. I felt too unwell to stand
                                    out and staid in my bunk, not intending to try to pass examination for the exchange
                                    list, but all were ordered to fall in line on the floor inside that were able to
                                    stand. I fell in line and gave in chills and fevor as my complaint, and as I
                                    expected did not make it. John Curd, John Gravis and others in all thirteen or
                                    fourteen got their names on the list. There was a scare-craw list of military orders
                                    in print on stiff paper posted in a conspicuous place in the barrack, reading as
                                    follows: 
                                    
                                        Military Orders Headquarters post, Camp Douglas Chicago, Ill.
                                            Sept. 28th, 1864.
                                        Gen. Order No. 95.
                                        The Colonel Commanding has information, which leads to the conclusion that
                                            there is an organization among the prisoners of war at Camp Douglas, having
                                            for its object a combined attack, to over power the guard and effect an
                                            escape.
                                        Captivity is one of the incidents of War, and a prisoner has the right to
                                            escape if he can, taking the risks and consequences. The Col. Commanding
                                            blames no man for a desire to go from his custody, and in reversed positions
                                            would, beyond all doubt be actuated by the same motive.
                                        It is your right to escape, my business and duty to keep you, and as you are
                                            eight thousand men, whose lives and fortunes, in the event of your attempt
                                            to escape, must be largely affected by my temper and disposition. It is but
                                            fair that you should know exactly what may be expected, both for individuals
                                            and the whole body of Prisoners.
                                        If a single prisoner, makes an effort to escape, he will be. punished either
                                            by being shot by the guard in the act, or by a subsequent order of mine. He alone being responsible, should alone be
                                            punished, but the whole body of prisoners of war will be held responsible
                                            that no organization or combination is made to attack the guard in force.
                                            And if such an attack is made, from the very nature of the case, the
                                            necessary means to repel it and restore order will endanger the lives of all
                                            in the prison square, those who are in the plot, as well as those who are
                                            not, and the Col. Commanding feels that humanity and a regard for the lives
                                            of the prisoners under his charge, requires that ha should remind them of
                                            the risks incurred by an insurrection.
                                        A cold winter is coming. The Col. Commanding feels that it is his duty, as it
                                            shall be his pleasure, to use all the means placed at his disposal, and give
                                            all the privileges possible under orders from higher authority, to make the
                                            prisoners barracks comfortable, and to clothe and protect them from cold and
                                            disease. Having done that, the duty which he owes in common humanity will be
                                            discharge, and he will take good care that the obligation which he owes to
                                            the Government of the United States to keep them in secure custody shall be
                                            equally well observed.
                                        By Command of B. J. Sweet. Col. 8th Regt. V. R. C. Com. Post.
                                        E. R. P. Shurtz, A. A. A. Gen.33
                              
                                    
                        
                        Wednesday October 5th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I feel a little better than I did
                                    yesterday, and picked up a basin with the intention of taking a wash, but I was
                                    stopped by several and after a little examination told that I was broken out with
                                    the smallpox, and must not wash, but go to bed immediately, which I did. I was not
                                    much surprised altho I had not the least idea that I was taking the smallpox, as I
                                    had felt no pains in my back or head nor even a sore throat. Dr. Pettus 
                              
                                 33 Captain Edward R. P. Shurly, Eighth Regiment,
                                            Veteran Reserve Corps, was acting assistant adjutant general. Official Records, Ser. II, Vol. VII, 767.
                           
                                     came and examined me and pronounced it a light
                                    case of smallpox and gave an order for the (red) ambulance which soon drove up to
                                    the door. I put on my worst cloths taking an extra check shirt and jumped in with
                                    seven others, myself making the eighth. We moved off stopping at the gate long
                                    enough to be counted. We stopped again at the Yankee Doctor's office near
                                    the Hospital in the Yankee square and were inspected by a Doctor a few minutes, and
                                    then moved through the south gate out of camp to the smallpox hospital which stands
                                    about four hundred yards from the fence on the south side of camp and near the
                                    Douglas Institute and monument. We jumped out and went in to the stove. The building
                                    is long but larger than our barracks. I saw the patients had frightful looking faces
                                    and hands and some were very lightly broken out. I half recognized one of the Reb
                                    nurses and asked him to see that I got a god clean cot. He said he would and started
                                    off. In five minutes another nurse told me a cot was ready and I followed him into
                                    the next ward which also appeared to be crowded with patients on both sides. The
                                    nurse stopped at an empty cot and told me to take that. I thought it was the cot I
                                    had spoken to nurse No. 1 for, but on looking at it I could see old scabs sticking
                                    all over the blankets, and I began to wonder how I could lay under blankets full of
                                    scabs. I turned the cover back and the smell nearly staggered me, but I though[t] if
                                    I must, I must! So I undressed and got in. Just then nurse No. 1 (John Craig,
                                    Woodford Co. Ky.) passed with some blankets for a cot for me not knowing that I had
                                    been accomodated. I concluded as I was in bed I would try it where I was. Everything
                                    appeared to have a mean smell. I noticed the floor was still damp from being
                                    scoured. I felt damp sticky spots on my blankets. Most of them are sticky and feel
                                    disagreeable. The roof is very open and airy. There is two holes that I could crawl
                                    out, besides numerous large cracks near the center of the roof. There was two stoves
                                    and but one in use. Something was the matter with the pipe of the other. I saw no
                                    other prospect than to freeze if the October weather turned very cold. I had but two
                                    blankets to cover with and one between me and the cot with no tick. I heard a coffee
                                    mill in the next room which indicated that dinner time was near at hand, also that
                                    said room was the kitchen. I had a very bad case on each side of me and they smelled
                                    very bad. The flies annoyed them a great deal. My covering disgusted me so that I
                                    could not bear it as high as my chin, so I took my extra check shirt by the arms and
                                    turned it over and over till it made a roll and wound it around my neck to keep from
                                    catching a cold. I knew that I would have to get used to it and concluded to watch
                                    what was going on around me. I noticed that the patients and especially the bad
                                    cases, called often for water, and the nurses did not like to give it, often telling
                                    them that they were killing  themselves drinking
                                    water, so I made up my mind not to take a single drink of water during my sickness
                                    or so long as I kept my right mind. I resolved also to stay in my cot till the
                                    Doctor said I was well enough to get out. A small table was set out in the middle of
                                    the floor and the nurses came in with a waiter of sliced bakersbread, several large
                                    coffee pots, a pitcher of milk and a tin cup of sugar, also a few soda crackers and
                                    roasted potatoes. The patients that were able sat up in their cots, and I followed
                                    suit protecting myself the best I could. A plate with a slice of bread on it and a
                                    tin cup half or two thirds full of weak coffee was given to each. The worst cases
                                    got toast and a cracker or potatoe. My appetite was good and I went through mine in
                                    a hurry. As soon as all were done the plates were gathered and the table and
                                    contents moved into the first ward. I could feel the cool air coming through the
                                    canvass in the bottom of my cot and noticing that all the other cots had mattress on
                                    them. I spoke to Mr. Jackson, one of the head nurses about it and he raised one for
                                    me which made my cot feel much better. There are ten nurses in all and a Yankee
                                    stewart that they call "Napoleon". Supper came and we got the same
                                    as at dinner. At dusk an oil lamp swinging in the center of the room was lighted. My
                                    head felt very light and I was afraid that I might get out of my mind. When I looked
                                    at the lamp my fancy turned certain rays and shades into a lady dressed in black
                                    with a white handkerchief to her eyes. If I looked at the roof or wall the rain
                                    stains transformed themselves into something hideous and if I shut my eyes I would
                                    instantly imagine I saw funeral processions, grave yards and other things that I did
                                    not wish to see. I was very restless and did not know what to do. I did not feel
                                    sick, but I could not sleep. I was very nervous. Several persons died during the
                                    night. I was glad when day light began to appear.
                        Thursday October 6th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I feel better than I expected to feel.
                                    I have no pains or sore throat, but a very good appetite. Chas. M. Byrnes came out
                                    with a light case from my company. A milk woman comes within a few yards of the
                                    hospital every morning and evening and sells milk at 10 cents per quart and 10 per
                                    gallon for butter milk. The nurses go out and purchase for those patients that have
                                    the change. During the day apples and cakes come to the door for sale. I crave milk
                                    more than anything else and I am without a cent. I have been looking for Pa to send
                                    me some change from camp. Our breakfast and dinner and supper are the same. I passed
                                    another sleepless night though not so restless as the night before.
                        Friday October 7th, 1864. Weather a little cool. I feel that I am  getting along fine. The bumps are coming out on my
                                    face, but not very thick. There is but few on my hands and on the rest of my body
                                    they are very scattering. I find it necessary to spit a great deal to keep my throat
                                    and head clear in which the spit box about two feet from my face on each side is
                                    very handy. The nurses appear very kind and often tell me that I have a very light
                                    case, but I must wait patiently and let it have its way. I take a couple of spoonf
                                    ulls of light looking fluid that has but little taste to it, two or three times a
                                    day. They call it No. 2.34 I received a letter from my counsin
                                    Mrs. R. M. Delaplain of Wheeling W. Va. and a notice from Pa that he had left
                                    $2 with Mr. Bushnell to be sent to my order. A nurse got me pen and ink
                                    and I gave Dr. F. A. Emmons an order on Bushnell for the money. During the night the
                                    man on my left died without making any noise. I slept none.
                        Saturday October 8th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I feel in fine spirits. My face is but
                                    little swelled and everybody says that I have a light case. Dr. Emmons returned my
                                    order on Bushnell with the news that he could not draw the money as an order had
                                    just been issued prohibiting the patients from drawing any more money. I was
                                    disappointed very much. The floor was scoured but we staid in our cots and let them
                                    move us to suit them.
                        Sunday October 9th, 1864. Weather cool. The open state of the roof makes the room
                                    cool altho the stove is kept hot. I borrowed a pencil and wrote Pa a note advising
                                    him of the failure of my order on Mr. Bushnell, also a letter to my Aunt Mrs.
                                    Annetta Burke of Canton, Ohio for a small box of nourishments and writing material.
                                    I found my hand very unsteady for writing. I thought I could not get money to buy
                                    something extra I would try to get it in box. Boxes are not allowed to prisoners in
                                    the square, only to sick in the Hospital. A religious paper with the Stars and
                                    Stripes in color at its head was given to each patient. We used them mostly to cover
                                    our faces to keep the flies off, but few of them were read. I am getting pretty well
                                    used to the ways of the place, and do not mind the nurses tramping back and forth
                                    with coffins. We had some dried apples for dinner extra. My appetite was not
                                    satisfied with the one slice of bread, so I called for the second slice and got it.
                                    About an hour after the lamp was lit two of the nurses by the names of Wm. Jones of
                                    7th KY. (Chenaults) and Sam'l Crawford of 15th Tenn. (Wards) escaped or run
                                    away. Several Yankees looked for them awhile and returned 
                              
                                 34 Buley indicates some typical frontier combinations
                                            for smallpox and has an interesting treatment of frontier medicine in R.
                                            Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period,
                                            1815-1840 (2 vols., Indianapolis, 1950), I, 259, 240-314.
                           
                                     without them and all quieted down again. I did
                                    not think it right for the nurses to escape and leave so many sick behind them that
                                    were depending on them for everything. Of nights my eyes keep as wide open as a pair
                                    of owl eyes. They never appear to get dry and sleepy.
                        Monday October 10th, 1864. Weather cool. I hear a good many complaining this morning
                                    about the nurses running off with their money and tobacco. Chas. Byrnes says he lost
                                    $1.60. There is now only eight nurses and a doctor (Rebs) and the Yankee
                                    stewart to wait on the men. A Yankee and a Reb does the cooking. It is intended to
                                    move the smallpox hospital out in the country about a mile from camp soon. A long
                                    building standing near this one is being put on rollers to be moved to the place
                                    chosen for the smallpox hospital.35 A few Yankees that have the
                                    smallpox, moved into the lower end of our convalescent ward today from the building.
                                    I had a little milk given me several times by Charles Byrnes and others. The nights
                                    appear very long. I slept none.
                        Tuesday October 11th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I feel all right, that is I
                                    don't feel sore at all. I have nothing to complain of. I received an order
                                    from Pa on headquarters for $5.00, but it was of no use to me as I could
                                    not draw a cent of it where I was, but I could buy anything in the prison sutler
                                    store with it by or through the Doctor, but as the sutler kept nothing eatable. He
                                    had nothing that I wanted. I had orders now for $7.00 and could not move
                                    a cent of it. I felt very much like tearing them up. I wanted the shinplasters to
                                    buy milk, etc.
                        Thursday October 13th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I was surprised to see my bunk mate
                                    Henry White come out with the new arrivals today. He has a very light case of the
                                        veryaloid36 and went at once into the convalescent ward. The
                                    bumps on my face are getting dark spots on them showing that they are drying up. The
                                    nurse says that in nine days they will all be dried up and scaled off and I will be
                                    well enough to return to camp. My medicine was changed to a dark looking fluid that
                                    tastes bitter. They call it No. 1. It is to make me dry up and to give a good
                                    appetite. I am as patient as could be expected. There was thirteen new cases arrived
                                    during the day. The nurses say it is 
                              
                                 35 A letter from Hoffman to Sweet on September 9
                                            indicates that plans had been made to remove the smallpox hospital farther
                                            from the camp and to make improvements in ventilation and protection against
                                            cold weather. Official Records, Ser. II, Vol. VII, 795.
                              
                                 36 Smallpox is also called variola. Varioloid is a
                                            mild form of variola occurring in a person who has previously had smallpox
                                            or been vaccinated.
                           
                                     more than ever came out in one day before. We
                                    are beginning to be crowded.
                        Friday October 14th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I feel tolerable well and am always glad
                                    to see meal time come. I at the second slice of bread two meals out of three. I
                                    noticed several cases where the patients had eaten too much rich food causing their
                                    bumps to look red. There is several kinds of smallpox. The common, the black and a
                                    fine kind that comas out very thick about the size of a pin head. Chas. Byrnes has a
                                    light case of this last kind. After dark a man by the name of Price of 8th Ky.
                                    (Clukes) escaped. At first the Stewart did not know who it was, that the empty cot
                                    belonged to, and he had the roll of the whole hospital called and found out. Then
                                    some Yanks went in pursuit but returned in an hour or so without the prisoner.
                        Monday October 17th, 1864. Weather pleasant. My face and hands are drying up fast. A
                                    great many have already come off of my face without forcing them, but instead of
                                    leaving pits they left light red raised places. I endured the itching torture than
                                    scratch them. Henry White received a small box of delicacies, fresh grapes,
                                    crackers, lemons, etc. I felt a great deal better than usual and the nurses told me
                                    that I might walk about awhile, so I visited Henry who I found out of bed and I
                                    helped him eat his extras. His sister Mrs. Wm. T. Cirode of Memphis, Tenn. was at
                                    headquarters, but could not get to see him, but she sent him the box and a suit of
                                    cloths. I am anxiously looking for my box. Elijah Watkins of Co. A. 14th came out
                                    and brought a note and fifty cents in shinplasters to me from Pa. I bought four
                                    large apples for ten cents and a quart of sweet milk for ten cents. I spent part of
                                    the time while I was up waiting on the patients in my ward. I slept about an hour
                                    during the night.
                        Tuesday October 18th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I feel pretty saucy. When the cooks
                                    went to camp to draw ration I got one of them to buy me a dimes worth of sugar and I
                                    got three or four times as much as the sutler in camp sold for a dime. My coffee
                                    does not come quite as sweet as I like to have it. I also add a little more milk.
                                    The nurses told me that I was well enough to wash my hands and face and sit up. I
                                    had not been allowed to wash since I broke out with the smallpox and I was glad
                                    enough to avail myself of the opportunity to get the dirt off of my hands and face,
                                    which I did with warm water and felt a great deal better. I waited on the patients
                                    awhile and then begged pen, ink and paper and wrote to my Cousin Mrs. R. M.
                                    Delaplain of  Wheeling W. Va. I sat by the stove
                                    and eat my dinner and then returned to bed again. I thought my box certainly would
                                    come during the day as plenty of time had elapsed since I wrote. I began to fear
                                    that I would be discharged as well and sent to camp before it come and so loose it.
                                    Dr. Emmons starts them to camp as soon as they are able to travel fairly. Henry
                                    White returned to camp today wearing his new suit instead of the rediculous looking
                                    blue suits they now issue. Every patient when discharged is made to bathe all over
                                    and leave all his cloths and put on one of the blue suits. They also receive a small
                                    new thin blue blanket each. After supper I made some hot toddy in partners with one
                                    of my regiment. He furnished the whiskey and I furnished the sugar and lemon. The
                                    stewart came along and saw me up and told me I was well enough to go into the
                                    convalescent ward and that he would give me a cot there. I went to the ward and it
                                    was late before a cot was given me. I went to bed and found only one thin blanket to
                                    cover with and no tick. There was three stoves in the ward and I thought that they
                                    would keep the room warm enough, so I did not complain. Everybody was required to
                                    throw their pantaloons on the floor at the foot of their cot and the steward
                                    gathered them up and locked them in a little room to keep us from escaping. A new
                                    comer talked rather saucy or foolish to the Steward and the Steward took all of his
                                    cloths. All finally retired and the fires died out. The night was cold and I soon
                                    became chilled through. They kept laughing and talking till late. At 12
                                    o'clock I had occasion to go out and when I returned I found a fire in one
                                    of the stoves. I went to it to get the chill off of me and found Elijah Watkins
                                    warming also. I did not say much to him but soon got warm and went to bed again
                                    covering up my head to keep as warm as I could. In about ten or fifteen minutes I
                                    heard one of the Yankees remark, "That reb stayed too long", at
                                    the same time getting up and going out. The Yankee returned in a few minutes and
                                    said that he could see nothing of him. Then several Yankees got up and went out. I
                                    then learned that they were talking about a prisoner that had gone to the sink and
                                    failed to return. The cots were looked over and Elijah Watkins was missed. Then some
                                    of the rebs spoke up and said that Watkins went out with his boots on and a blanket
                                    over his shoulders. The Yanks soon returned without Watkins, all agreeing that it
                                    was a pretty cold night for a man to escape in his drawers. The clock struck one and
                                    no sleep for me. I had to rub my feet together until I thought I would rub the skin
                                    off for fear they would freeze, for several hours before day. I counted every stroke
                                    of the clock during the whole night, which was a miserable one.
                        Wednesday October 19th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I rose before  sun up got warm at one of the stoves and went out and
                                    took a wash. The milk woman was announced and I went out and bought a quart of sweet
                                    milk in a bottle. I felt sure that when Dr. Emmons came out and learned of the
                                    escape of Watkins he would get out of humor and send a lot of us convalescents to
                                    our quarters in camp and I also had a presentiment that my box would certainly
                                    arrive some time today or tomorrow morning and if I could pass the Doctor till
                                    tomorrow I would get it. I almost made up my mind to ask the Doctor's
                                    permission to remain another day, but my aversion to asking favors of Yankees was
                                    too great. I went to the convalescent table, which is set in the kitchen, to
                                    breakfast, and got coffee without sugar or milk, but as I had both I soon made the
                                    coffee right. I got also a moderate supply of cold beef and bread. The cooks,
                                    nurses, and Yankees eat at the first table and the convalescents at the second
                                    table. After breakfast I bumed pen, ink and paper from the nurses and stamps from
                                    Chas. Byrnes and wrote to Ma, Medina Go. Ohio. I was sitting at the stove with
                                    several others when Dr. Emmons came. He immediately took the names of eight of us to
                                    be sent to camp after dinner without any examination and there was three of the
                                    number not dried up yet. I asked the Doctor if he had heard anything of my box, and
                                    he said he had not; if it had come it would be sent directly to his office. I
                                    visited our men in the other wards and received sundry messages to deliver when I
                                    got to camp. Most of them appeared in good spirits, and I cheered than up all I
                                    could by telling them that they were getting along fine, etc, altho I was satisfied
                                    that several of them would never recover. After all I was glad to leave the place
                                    made horrible by the dying groans of so many of my comrades in adversity. Poor
                                    fellows! some of them would get out of their heads and die raving, cursing, praying
                                    and making speeches, etc. I often saw men out of their heads gather all of the
                                    blankets of their cots under their arms and start out saying that their friends were
                                    waiting at the door fur them. Different reasons were given by them for wanting to
                                    leave, but the nurses would most always stop them before they got to the door. A few
                                    nights ago Richard Allen of Go. D. my regiment made an eloquent speech defending
                                    himself against an accusation for which he supposed he had been tried and sentenced
                                    to be hanged. He also made a long prayer speaking of his mother, sister and
                                    sweetheart in the most touching terms imaginable declaring his innocence and bidding
                                    them and the world farewell. I thought he was dying but the nurses said he was only
                                    out of his head, but that he was very low. About 11 o'clock we discharged
                                    men filled a large two barrel boiler sitting outside with water from a well nearby
                                    and heated it. We then got four tubs, two to a tub and took a bath in an old open
                                    roofless shed or sink which was a very chilly operation. We then had to throw away
                                    our  old, but warm cloths and put on our new
                                    suits of blue, consisting of thin shoes without socks, unlined pants without
                                    drawers, a good gray shirt and a thin frock coat with the tail trimmed with scissors
                                    or a knife into a clawhammer or spade tail, looking very odd. Every other button was
                                    also cut off. All kept their old hats. Our toilet at last completed by tieing our
                                    cravats (if we had one) A La Brummel. We returned to the house and sat around the
                                    stoves till dinner was announced. I got bread, beef, and a plate of vegetable soup
                                    and then by way of a delicacy finished with my cup of milk, which I relished very
                                    much as I knew it was the last I would get for some time. After dinner the eight
                                    discharged men were called up and each of us received a new blue blanket and
                                    Napoleon (The Stewart) started with us to camp. He halted us in the Federal square
                                    at the Doctor's office next to the Prisoners hospital and a reb Doctor by
                                    the name of Gray who was also staying there, came out and asked if there was a man
                                    by the name of Burke in the crowd. I answered and he told me that a box had just
                                    arrived for me. I told him that it was lost to me as I would not be allowed to take
                                    it to my barrack in the prison square. He then told me to come in, and I went in and
                                    saw it was a large square cracker box well filled. It had been opened. He told me to
                                    take such things as I thought I could get through the gate with, so I first gave my
                                    friends at the door their hands full of soda crackers, dried cherries, etc. and then
                                    handed one a paper of prunes another a glass of jelly and a third a paper of white
                                    sugar to take through the gate for me. While I took a prayer book, paper of ten
                                    [tea?], 1/2 doz of crackers, a suit of undercloths and some soft rags for bandages,
                                    etc. A Yankee sergeant was hurrying me so that I did not have time to explore the
                                    box further, and I thought it best not to try to pass with any more. Doctor Gray
                                    promised to send the remainder of the things to the smallpox hospital where I had
                                    left a note to Dr. Emmons requesting him if the box came to let Charles Byrnes and
                                    John Travis have it to distribute among the 14th, Ky. sick and others as they saw
                                    fit. Then we moved on to the gate with an addition of three convalescents from the
                                    Prisoners hospital, and were searched at the gate and turned into our square without
                                    having anything taken from us. The men promptly refunded my extra things prunes,
                                    etc. and I went to my barrack rejoicing. The camp looked strange to me. There was so
                                    much new work, barracks and other alterations.37 I was kept busy
                                    for awhile receiving the congratulations of my friends on my recovery and in
                                    answering questions concerning the remaining boys of the regiment. I took a good
                                    drink of water for the first time in two weeks. I felt 
                              
                                 37 Weekly reports during October indicate that many
                                            repairs were being made; new barracks and a wash house were constructed. Official Records, Ser. II, Vol. VII, 959, 994,
                                        1026.
                           
                                     a little weak, but all right otherwise and was
                                    congratulating myself on my good fortune, but I had not been back more than two
                                    hours when I commenced feeling soreness and slight pain on the left side of my neck
                                    under my jaw between the ear and apple of the throat. It increased so by night that
                                    I could hardly eat a couple of biscuits and cup of tea that Pa brought me. The
                                    outside of my throat was swelling and the inside was sore so that it pained me to
                                    swallow. I passed a sleepless night with it.
                        Thursday October 20th, 1864. Weather pleasant. My throat is considerably swollen on
                                    the left side I cannot eat anything but hot tea or coffee with a little bread crumed
                                    in it. Dr. Pettus examined me and says that the left tonsil of my throat is swollen
                                    and gave me a perscription for some potush [potash] to gurgle my throat with. Henry
                                    White carried my perscription to the drug store and got the medicine. I received two
                                    letters from Canton, Ohio. One from my cousin Mrs. T. Myers and one from my uncle
                                    Wm. H. Burke both giving a list of the contents of my box. I also received a note
                                    from Charles Byrnes at the smallpox hospital saying that he had received the box
                                    with only one paper of dried cherries, a lot of dried apples and crackers. The
                                    balance 5 glasses of jelly, 2 cans of peaches, one paper of ternia, one paper of
                                    corn starch, paper, envelopes, ink, underclothing and a few other articles were
                                    taken out. So I or my friends did not get much from my box. Byrnes would have sent
                                    me the writing materials or brought them when he was discharged had he received
                                    them. The night was cool. I did not rest well.
                        Friday October 21st, 1864. Weather cool. I feel about the same as I did yesterday.
                                    Nightingale the sutler commenced selling the Chicago Tribune, Evening Journal at 10
                                    cents a piece. I kept very close in my bunk. I find great difficulty in eating, and
                                    passed another sleepless night.
                        Sunday October 23rd, 1864. Weather cool. I put a lie [lye] poultice to my throat and
                                    waited very impatiently for Dr. Pettus to make his morning call. When he came he
                                    said there was solme ulcers in my throat that needed burning, and gave a
                                    perscription for nitrate of silver to burn them with. Henry got the medicine and Wm.
                                    Gibbons burned the ulcers for me. I also still continued to gurgle my throat every
                                    hour or two with the potash. The paper said 800 Yankees have taken the Confederate
                                    oath from Southern prisons.38 At inspection 
                              
                                 38 One report of October 12, 1864, from Florence,
                                            South Carolina, indicates that
                           
                                     the officers surprised a good many of us by
                                    taking all the extra boots and shoes found in the barrack. I suspicioned the cat was
                                    up and remained in my bunk on the sick list and was not disturbed, thereby saving
                                    some boots and, shoes that were hid in my blankets for other fellows. The men out in
                                    line had to stand and see their extra boots and shoes thrown out in a pile and
                                    hauled off to the gate where they were either burned or issued out to others. Pa
                                    gave me an order on the sutler for $2.00 and Henry got me a small bottle
                                    of ink and a small fine tooth comb for 70 cents.
                        Tuesday October 25th, 1864. Weather cool. Mr. Nightingale the sutler brought in a lot
                                    of sugar, coffee, tea, apples, etc. for sale. Henry got me 1 lb. of coffee
                                    $1, nine envelopes and nine sheets of note paper for 30 cents which took
                                    up the balance of my order. Nearly everything is of inferior quality and sells at
                                    the highest kind of prices. Black Tea $2.50 per lb., common brown sugar
                                    60 cents lb., Strong Butter 80 cents per lb., small onions 25 cents per doz., small
                                    apples 5 cents apiece and other things in proportion.
                        Thursday October 27th, 1864. Weather pleasant. Several prisoners escaped from the
                                    hospital in the federal square by means of a tunnel. Edwin W. Lonney Co. B. died at
                                    the smallpox hospital last night. He is from Lexington Ky. and was one of the first
                                    members of Morgan's old squadron. This is the first loss by death my
                                    company has sustained since our capture. The water pipes on north side of camp are
                                    undergoing repairs and the hydrants have stopped running.39
                                    Barrels were sunk in the sandy earth, but the water thus obtained was very muddy and
                                    indifferent, and that necessary article became very scarce.
                        Sunday October 30th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I received a letter 
                              807 prisoners had "taken the oath of allegiance and enlisted in
                                            the service of the Confederate States." The initiation of the
                                            practice on a large scale apparently was in September, 1864, when there were
                                            many prisoners "highly indignant with their Government for not
                                            exchanging them." There are further references in the Official Records throughout late 1864 and 1865 under prisoners of
                                            war, enlistments. Ibid., 973, 821.
                              
                                 39 In October the water system consisting of three
                                            inch main pipe was being replaced by six inch pipe, which was expected to
                                            fill the need for more water. Official Records, Ser. II,
                                            Vol. VII, 694, 1027.
                           
                                     from Brother William Burke of Medina Co. Ohio.
                                    At roll call an order was read that every man must take all of his effects out in
                                    line at inspection and lay them at their feet. When the bugle blew I remained in my
                                    bunk and hid some things for Henry White and others. The inspecting officers took a
                                    large lot of blankets, clothing, etc. from the prisoners. I lost nothing. There was
                                    more than a two horse wagon load of confiscated goods taken from the camp. The men
                                    were then dismissed and all hands breathed free once more. A discussion arose
                                    between the men in my barrack whether the cooks should issue the bread in two doses,
                                    that is at dinner and breakfast as usual, or all at once at dinner. A vote was taken
                                    and the majority 116 to 16 decided to have it issued as usual.
                        Monday October 31st, 1864. Weather pleasant. It is the 14th writing day. I wrote to
                                    Ma, Medina Co. Ohio. Yankee and rebel doctors are vaccinating the next barrack to us
                                    (Ward's 15th Tenn). Our guard had all shelves except light slat work
                                    knocked down. Two Yankee privates made a sudden raid on our barrack and got extra
                                    clothing from about a dozen of the men who were unprepared for them. The Yanks seem
                                    to be determined to reduce us to barely one suit and we are kept in a stew all the
                                    time dreading searches. Two men were caught talking after the retiring bugle sounded
                                    and taken to the wooden mule for a ride of an hour or so. When the men see a Yankee
                                    coming they give the alarm consisting simply of hist, hist, which
                                    can be heard on all sides.
                        Tuesday November 1st, 1864. Weather tolerable pleasant. The papers say that a fleet
                                    of 16 vessels are collecting at Fortress Monroe to be commanded by Lt. Col. Mulford
                                    U. S. A. to exchange 10,000 prisoners at Savannah Ga.40 About
                                    760 new prisoners arrived from Hoods Tenn. army, and one of Capt. Quirk's
                                    scouts a Tennessean is among them.
                        Thursday November 3rd, 1864. Weather pleasant. We drew out first coal today. The
                                    papers say that Gen. Bureguard and Hood are across the Tennessee river in the rear
                                    of Sherman who is leaving Atlanta and coming north again. Gen. Breckinridge is to
                                    enter eastern 
                              
                                 40 There is scattered correspondence throughout
                                            October and November in the Official Records about an
                                            exchange. John E. Mulford apparently did arrive in Savannah with ten
                                            steamers and approximately 10,000 invalid or unfit for duty prisoners. By
                                            November 29 he had received about 4,600 men from the Confederates. Ibid., 1120, 1123, 1169, and other entries under exchange
                                            for Savannah.
                           
                                     Kentucky and form a junction with Bureguard and
                                        Hood.41 The bread question was agitated again and a vote
                                    taken. The majority this time decided to have all the rations of bread for the day
                                    issued at dinner time. "7 [27?] new prisoners arrived and were furnished
                                    with quarters in this magnificent establishment the Hotel De Gankee. The bakers say
                                    that they allow 1 lb of flour to make 4 loaves of bread, that is 4 oz to the loaf,
                                    and we draw 314 of a loaf per man per day. The bakers sell the same size loaves to
                                    us when they come from work at 25 and 30 cts. and I have known them to get as much
                                    as 50 cts. per loaf in U. S. shinplasters. They do their best to keep the price of
                                    bread up, and nothing but U. S. Shinplasters will buy it, and that is not easily
                                    obtained unless we sell orders or numbers on Headquarters or the sutler at a heavy
                                    discount, or buy things at the sutler's on our orders or numbers and peddle
                                    them through camp for shinplasters. And as I make a poor peddler I always discount.
                                    The sutler brought in some flour at $20 per barrel. I gave my blue
                                    hospital coat to Pa to make him a vest of as I cannot hide it much longer in the
                                    strict searches the Yankees have been making lately for extra clothing, etc. After
                                    the bugle for retiring had sounded two patrol guards came in and caught several of
                                    the men sitting around the stove which at the time was very hot. They cursed the men
                                    to their bunks and ordered no more fire and started out, but one of them remained in
                                    the little passage about 6 long by 4 wide between the outer and inner door. The men
                                    thinking they were gone commenced talking and in popped the guard again, but the
                                    alarm was given so quick that the guard could not determine what men were talking.
                                    He hauled out three or four men, but they were the wrong men. Then he swore he would
                                    take every man in the barrack out and he would get the right men. He ordered us all
                                    to get up but before we got our clothing on two of the guilty men owned up and we
                                    were ordered back to bed again, and the guard marched the two men off to ride the
                                    wooden mule. All was still again. Nothing could be heard except now and then a low
                                    whisper. We saw the light of a large fire on the west side of camp in Chicago. The
                                    night was cool and rainy. I did not rest well.
                        Friday November 4th, 1864. Weather cool, dark and rainy. The 
                              
                                 41 Confederate General John B. Hood was conducting his
                                            invasion of Tennessee called the Franklin and Nashville Campaign. It was an
                                            attempt to pull Sherman north after he had gained Atlanta from Hood. Sherman
                                            moved north from Atlanta early in October but retained control of the city.
                                            He soon left defenses against Hood to General George H. Thomas and moved
                                            south for his "March to the Sea." Boatner, The Civil War Dictionary, 305-309. Hood was forced to retreat to
                                            Mississippi and the Army of Tennessee was shattered. General Pierre G.
                                            Beauregard was in command of the Military Division of the West, created
                                            October 17 to coordinate Hood's proposed invasion of Tennessee. Ibid., 241. General John C. Breckinridge was presumably in
                                            the Department of Southwest Virginia at this time. He is not mentioned in
                                            connection with Hood's campaign. Ibid., 83,
                                            305-309.
                           
                                     ground is muddy. Our roll call sergeant let the
                                    men in as soon as he got through and we had breakfast nearly over before the regular
                                    bugle blew to dismiss the prisoners from roll call. I had more difficulty than usual
                                    in getting through with my breakfast of bread and coffee. I have been burning the
                                    ulcers in my throat with nitrate of silver and gurgling with potash. Also keeping my
                                    neck well bundled up with poltices made of bread and vinegar which I change several
                                    times during the day. John T. McGaw of Co. C. died at the convalescent ward today.
                                    He is from Columbus Ky. I received a letter from brother Alonzo Burke at Lexington,
                                    Ky. The sutler's stock is getting better. He brought in soda crackers at 25
                                    cents per lb. Morning papers say that the fire last night was a large Glue
                                        Factory.42 A new lot of prisoners arrived captured near
                                    Decatur Ala. from Hood a few days ago. The night was the coldest we have yet had
                                    this fall. I was very restless all night.
                        [Burke can eat only hot liquids because his throat is so swollen on November 5 and 6.
                                    Newspapers are stopped on the sixth.]
                        Monday November 7th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I could not eat anything for breakfast,
                                    and at dinner pork and no soup was issued. I felt very hungry so I cut up some pork
                                    and bread very fine and made a substitute for soup. It takes me some time to eat as
                                    I have to bring every muscle into action to swallow and never get through without a
                                    great deal of choking, puffing and blowing and a sweat. Since I returned from the
                                    hospital the men or a good many of them have been busy increasing the warmth of
                                    their socks by knapping them with yarn obtained from worn out socks. They use a
                                    darning needle and a small stick about the size of a lead pencil. The stick is sewed
                                    to the sock the stitches being close together the whole length, then the stick is
                                    cut out by running a knife across the yarn the whole length of the stick. This
                                    operation is repeated till the whole sock is covered or as much of it as is
                                    desirable. There are plenty of rumors about arms, etc. being found near camp. At
                                    night we had unusually strict orders to keep quiet. The Yanks seem afraid of the
                                    rebs making a break.43
                        
                        
                           
                              42 According to the Chicago Tribune for
                                        November 4, 1864, a fire was first noticed "about 8 o'clock
                                        last evening" at the glue factory of Wahl Bros. & Lighthall in
                                        Bridgeport west of Camp Douglas. The owners put the loss at about
                                        $150,000. The newspaper states that the "fire is doubtless
                                        the work of an incendiary" and rebukes the people who were happy to get
                                        rid of the malodorous plant. Larry A. Viskochil to Pamela J. Bennett, August 13,
                                        1970.
                           
                              43This statement seems to be Burke's only notice
                                        of the famous "Chicago Conspiracy," which was foiled by Sweet.
                                        The plan allegedly was to release prisoners at Camp Douglas, "to seize
                                        the polls … [and] secure the city, county, and State for Mcclellan
                                        and Pendleton, then to utterly sack the city … and carry off its
                                        money and stores to Jeff Davis's dominions." William Bross,
                                        "History of Camp Douglas," Reminiscences of
                                            Chicago During the Civil War (Chicago, 1914), 188-89. Sweet's
                                        report is in the Official Records, Ser. I, Vol. XXXIX, Part
                                        111, 696.
                        
                        
                        Tuesday November 8th, 1864. Weather rainy. My throat is some better. This is the day
                                    on which the next president of the United States is to be elected for the next four
                                    years of the war! The prisoners generally take the part of the Chicago nominee Geo.
                                    B. McClellen as they think his election is the only thing that will bring about an
                                    early exchange of prisoners. I received a letter from my cousin Alonzo Miller,
                                    Medina Co. Ohio. He has just returned from the Yankee army, his time three years
                                    being out. He says that he has had enough of it and wishes the war was over. We can
                                    hear nothing from the election. It rained hard nearly all night.
                        [Entries from November 9 to 20 provide little new information. The plank fence is
                                    being reinforced around the camp, and guards are putting up "a large
                                    reflector lamp at the end of each street to light up the streets extra from the
                                    lamps on the fence" (p. 365). New and larger water pipes are put in
                                    providing more water. Burke reports several more smallpox deaths among his
                                    acquaintances. The first snow falls on November 10. Burke's throat is still
                                    bad; he tries painting with iodine for three days and then turns to onion poultices,
                                    which apparently do little good either.]
                        Monday November 21st, 1864. Weather tolerable pleasant. The Yanks took the skillets
                                    from all of the kitchens and ordered the cooks to use the private flour belonging to
                                    men in the barrack for the whole barrack, but the reb cooks did not do it. The flour
                                    owners make flat cakes which they bake by holding them near the red coal stoves in
                                    the barrack till one side is done and then turning them over, at the same time
                                    keeping a lookout for the Yanks. We are all pretty well satisfied by this time that
                                    Old Abe is re-elected and the chances for an early exchange very meager. My throat
                                    is doing very well today. 15 or 20 prisoners went out on the Oath
                                    in the last two or three days. The prisoners are not allowed to receive writing
                                    materials or tobacco today. Returning convalescents from the smallpox hospital
                                    report over 200 cases there. Some of them are in a deplorable condition, lying on
                                    the floors without sufficient blankets and fire to keep them from frost biting. Some
                                    are lying in a circle around the few stoves which are miserably short of coal, while
                                    others lay begging the nurses to take them to the fire to keep them from freezing.
                                    There is not enough cots. There is an average of eight deaths per day. The night was
                                    very cold.
                        Tuesday November 22d, 1864. Weather cold. I received a letter from Brother Alonzo E.
                                    Burke at Lexington, Ky. A load or two of express boxes arrives for the prisoners
                                    every day, but they are all examined and many things taken out. The regiment
                                    furnished a detail to fill up the ditch where the water pipes were put in. The men
                                    in the barrack that can knit have been busy for several days past  knitting mits, gloves, etc. When anything new is once
                                    started in the barrack nearly every person that can soon follows suit. A large crowd
                                    of reb camp hucksters collect daily near the sutler store. They have almost
                                    everything imaginable to sell, and often come around to the barracks peddling their
                                    goods, such as onions, potatoes, apples, crackers, biscuits, bread, pies, clothing,
                                    tobacco, etc. for which they demand Lincoln shinplasters, which they buy orders on
                                    the sutler with again, then get more goods with the orders, making a profit by the
                                    operation. John Shackelford returned to the barrack from the dungeon (duce of
                                    diamonds) with his ball and chain still on. The ball weighs 64 lbs and a chain about
                                    3 ft. long attached.44 The night was cold.
                        Thursday November 24th, 1864. Weather pleasant. It is the Yankee Thanksgiving day.
                                    The Reb free masons (Master masons and higher) have been rubbing their heads
                                    together and have succeeded in getting a barrack to themselves where they will have
                                    a lodge. It was obtained through the influence of Yankees who are free masons and
                                    free masons out side.45
                        
                        Friday November 25th, 1864. Weather cool. The roll call was unusually long, and I had
                                    to shm an excuse from the Doctor to keep from being forced out in line. Cannon the
                                    guard left us and another Yank took his place. The men soon gave him the name of
                                    Lightening from the fuss he made the first morning he guarded us. The masons all
                                    collected from different parts of camp and moved into their barrack (No. 49). Pa
                                    went with them, leaving vacant the place of Sergeant Major, and Sergeant Henry C.
                                    Elder of Co. B was elected to fill the place. His duty is to collect and distribute
                                    our mail, etc. I suppose the masons will have extra privilege shown them. All of the
                                    vacant bunks in the barrack was filled up with new infantry men (or web-feet). My
                                    throat and neck feels a great deal better. It rained during the night.
                        Tuesday November 29th, 1864. Weather clear and pleasant. I did 
                              
                                 44 Shackelford of Company D had been arrested on
                                            October 29 for an attempted escape the previous night.
                              
                                 45 No records have been found related to this
                                            particular incident. Such an occurrence seems not unusual in light of events
                                            recorded in Allen E. Roberts, House Undivided: The Story of
                                                Freemasonry and the Civil War (Fulton, Mo., 1961).
                           
                                     not go to roll call. Some flour was stolen the
                                    other night from Thos. Ballou, Co. A and this morning he and several others
                                    suspicioned and accused one of the newcomers by the name of Thos. Ireland, Co. E 4th
                                    La. Battalion. After questioning him pretty close he acknowledge that he was very
                                    hungry and stole it but was sorry for it. The men became interested in the affair
                                    and some was for handing him over to the Yankees for punishment and some were for
                                    trying him and punishing according to law. The prisoner was asked which he
                                    preferred, and he said that he was willing to receive any punishment a fair trial
                                    might inflict. So a court was immediately organized and witnesses on both sides
                                    collected. The officers chosen were as follows: John Waller, Judge; John Curd,
                                    Sheriff; A. W. Cockrell, Prosecuting Attorney; Wm. McConathy, Attorney for Prisoner.
                                    A jury of 12 men from this and other barracks was solemnly sworn in. The witnesses
                                    were also sworn with uplifted hands, and the prisoner plead guilty
                                    and requested the court not to be hard on him. The witnesses were examined and cross
                                    examined by the Attorneys on both sides. McConathy and Cockrell spoke about an hour
                                    each. A large crowd was collected, but perfect silence was maintained, and things
                                    went on in the same manner as a regular court. The jury retired a few minutes and
                                    returned with the verdict that the prisoner was guilty and ought to have one side of
                                    his head shaved, and his name, company and regiment placed on the bulletin board as
                                    a thief, between the hours of 12 and 6 o'clock P. M. The judge read the
                                    sentence and the court adjourned. After dinner the sheriff (John Curd) cut the
                                    prisoner's hair short on one side, and the sentence of the court was put on
                                    the bulletin board. He submitted quietly to the sentence. The night was cool.
                        Wednesday November 30th, 1864. Weather pleasant. I visited Pa at the masonic barrack
                                    (49) and learned the names of the officers, and the object of the association, which
                                    is as follows: To aid and assist any sick and needy masons. To dispense charity, and
                                    receive donations from lodges outside of the Prison for that purpose. To attend in
                                    person the hospitals and bury their dead. The officers of the Prisoners Masonic
                                    Association of Camp Douglas, Ill. A. W. Cockrell, President; John Peters, Vice
                                    President; O. T. Miller, Secretary; R. F. Gordon, Corresponding Secretary; E. D.
                                    Raylan, Treasurer; J. E. Atkins, Stewart; W. C. Dickey, Tyler; W. C. Arnett,
                                    Sergeant Major; s. M. Price, Com. Sergeant. The guard is a mason, and they all
                                    appear to be getting along as well as could be expected under the circumstances.
                                    Nearly all of the new barracks have been completed. I have got so that I can eat my
                                    rations and then feel hungry. I and Henry White saved our meat and part of our bread
                                    and made hash to  eat with our bread in the
                                    morning. We made the hash in a small stew pot that Pa gave me, and cooked it on the
                                    coal stove.
                        Saturday December 3d, 1864. Weather rainy. I staid in from roll call. After breakfast
                                    I paid Pa a visit and saw a guard kicking a crowd away from one of the hydrants. I
                                    spilled some water on the floor, but made haste to hide it before any of the guards
                                    came in, as the penalty is a ride on the wooden mule. I swept it as dry as I could
                                    and put hot ashes on it, then swept it clean again and sprinkled fresh sand over it
                                    and all was right again. The guards make a great fuss about a little spit on the
                                    floor, and try to make the men go to the spit-boxes to spit instead of spitting at
                                    them from the bunks or at a distance. Just now I hear the men in a warm discussion
                                    over the question whether a man can eat four hard-tacks (crackers) in five minutes,
                                    also whether a man can eat three loaves of soft bread in 3 hours. A good many
                                    express a willingness to make the trial if the bread or crackers are furnished. A
                                    doctor came in and vaccinated every man that has not been vaccinated lately or
                                    wanted to be vaccinated over again. Just before day I heard the men of a whole
                                    barrack out in line stomping to keep their feet warm. Some guards took them out for
                                    making fires in the stoves before the bugle blew to rise.
                        [On December 4 Burke reports that there are new officers and a Captain McDonald is
                                    now "inspector of the prison square" (p. 372).]
                        Tuesday December 6th, 1864. Weather cold. I went to roll call and got permission to
                                    go in as soon as the count was over. There is fresh snow about 3 inches deep this
                                    morning. It is reported that a prisoner froze to death last night. Henry Allen of
                                    Co. B was staying at the sutler store and escaped rather mysteriously. The other
                                    clerks five in number were arrested and locked up in the express office to make them
                                    tell how Allen escaped, and haw much money he took. Report says that he was hauled
                                    out in a barrel and that he took two or three hundred dollars from old Nightingale,
                                    who believes it all, and also that the other clerks have been robbing him too. The
                                    store is closed. Clothing and blankets are still received by express. After dinner
                                    the whole row (four barracks) prepared to wash at the wash house. Henry White and
                                    myself borrowed a tub and washboard and repaired to the field of operations. We
                                    found the house already very much crowded and about three inches of water all over
                                    the floor. The troughs that the tubs set in were full of tubs, so we sat our tub on
                                    the floor and got hot water from one of the eight large two lb. boilers and went to
                                    work on our bag of duds. I counted a hundred tubs all in use.  After we had given our cloths one rubbing we put them
                                    in one of the boilers and boiled them. By this time it was late in the evening. We
                                    had washed 29 pieces. A hydrant was put in the middle of the wash house. Leven P.
                                    Young returned from the smallpox hospital in a very bad fix, being covered with
                                    large boils. A patrol guard came in soon after the bugle blew at dusk and drove the
                                    men to their bunks, and ordered them to let the fires die out. The night was cold.
                        Friday December 9th, 1864. Weather very cold. We were marched in again as soon as
                                    counted. I think this will be repeated through the cold weather. A man froze to
                                    death in barrack 28 last night. Albert and Joseph Stanhope were permitted to see
                                    their father in the office at the gate. 47 new prisoners arrived captured from Hood
                                    on the 4th inst., a mile and a half from Nashville where Hood is fortifying. One of
                                    the prisoners says that he saw Gen. Pat. Claibourn laid out.46
                                    The guards here have frequently given orders for the men to keep away from the
                                    stoves. Today old Socks47 came and saw a crowd around the stoves
                                    and he lit into them with a stick till he broke it and then said "Some of
                                    you play-offs give me a stick! Some of you play-offs give me a stick!!" at
                                    the same time striking them over the shoulders with the pieces till he cleared the
                                    crowd. John Shackelford returned from the smallpox hospital with his ball and chain
                                    still on. On his way in the 64 lb ball rolled out of the old ambulance nearly
                                    jerking his leg off before the ambulance could be stopped. At night he suffered a
                                    great deal with his leg. The night was cold.
                        Monday December 12th, 1864. Weather cold and windy. There was a great sensation
                                    created in camp at seeing the following printed article posted on the bulletin board
                                    and other places.
                        
                                    New York City Dec. 9, 1864.
                                    To the Confederate Prisoners of War at Camp Douglas, Chicago, Ill.
                                    Under the late arrangements made between the Confederate States and the United
                                        States to each supply their own Prisoners of War with necessary supplies. I have
                                        been selected to carry out on the part of the Confederate States this
                                        arrangement. I therefore desire that you will at once!
                                        determine by a committee or otherwise 
                                 
                                    46 Confederate General Patrick R. Cleburne, born
                                                in Ireland, was killed on November 30, 1864, at Franklin, Tennessee.
                                                Boatner, The Civil War Dictionary, 158-59.
                                 
                                    47 Old Socks is described as "a tall
                                                rawboned longlegged hump-shouldered. green looking Yank" who
                                                punished two prisoners in Burke's barrack on November 28. The
                                                guard's answer "I'll sock ye!" to
                                                one man's plea for time to don his socks earned the Yankee his
                                                nickname.
                              
                                         the supplies (Clothing, blankets, etc.
                                        provisions) you most need; give the number of blankets and each amount of
                                        clothing, namely those articles first that you need most. 2d. Give the number of
                                        officers, privates and citizens separate. 3d. Select four officers and give
                                        their name, rank and regiment, in full, who you desire to receive and issue to
                                        you the supplies on their arrival.
                                    Your Obedient Servant, Wm. N. R. Beall, Brig. Gen. P. A. C. S.
                                        Confederate Agent to supply Prisoners of War.48
                           
                                    official E. R. P. Shurley
                                    Capt. & A. A. A. Gen.
                                
                        The men in my barrack (27) elected Wm. J. McConathy as a delegate to meet with
                                    elected delegates from other barracks. Each barrack electing a delegate and those
                                    delegates to elect four of their number with authority to receive and issue the
                                    Confederate rations, etc. on their arrival. The sutler sold over 40 barrels of flour
                                    at $21 (Greenback) per barrel today. He sells a good many every day. The
                                    kitchens are several days behind in receiving their beans and vinegar for the ten
                                    days and there has been a strong rumor in camp all day that our rations were going
                                    to be cut shorter. Some say that its in the papers and others say that the Yankees
                                    are its author.49 Henry White and myself got into an argument
                                    over it. Henry affirming that he believed the rumor and proposed the following trade
                                    to me on the strength of his belief, which I accepted, as we get a whole loaf of
                                    bread for breakfast and two thirds of a loaf for dinner, Henry agreed to take my
                                    half of the bread for his chance of soup for the ten days. And I run the risk of
                                    loosing the soup by the kitchens not drawing beans. By this trade I give my rations
                                    of bread for one day for his rations of pot-liquor or soup for ten days.
                        Tuesday December 13th, 1864. Weather cool. At breakfast I let Henry have all the
                                    bread as per agreement, and bumed enough from one of the cooks for my breakfast.
                                    Just before dinner I paid Pa a visit and found him baking biscuits. He gave me
                                    enough for my dinner and supper, but I did not tell him of my trade. At dinner we
                                    drew a half pint of pot liquor each. Henry laughed as he poured his 
                              
                                 48 The circular from Beall, Provisional Army,
                                            Confederate States, was enclosed with a cover letter from Halbert E. Paine,
                                            United States Volunteers, that directed Federal prison officials to have the
                                            circular "presented to the prisoners of war, and in forwarding the
                                            report called for through me [Paine] make such remarks and suggestions as
                                            may be of service." Burke reproduces the circular with minor
                                            differences in punctuation and wording from the copy in Official Records, Ser. II, Vol. VII, 1206-1207.
                              
                                 49 There apparently was no official intention to
                                            reduce the ration at that time. In fact, an inspection report of December 4
                                            indicates that the quantity of food was "hardly
                                            sufficient" and recommends "that during the winter months
                                            the ration Of meat be increased two ounces." On December 18 food is
                                            still "insufficient for the winter season." In October
                                            Hoffman had suggested reducing the meat ration to save money for vegetables,
                                            but Sweet declined the suggestion because "in this climate during
                                            winter it is not advisable." Ibid., 1187, 1242,
                                            1059.
                           
                                     into my cup and remarked that I had nearly a whole cup of pot-liquor. I said nothing as I still thought we
                                    would draw beans yet and the laugh would be on my side. The delegates elected
                                    yesterday met today at 2.30 p. m. at Barrack No. 53. They organized and adjourned
                                    till tomorrow.
                        Wednesday December 14th, 1864. Weather cold and windy. It was reported that Lt. Fife
                                    would be in at the express office to approve letters for money and clothing. I
                                    commenced drawing my bread at breakfast again as usual. After breakfast I repaired
                                    to the express office to get a letter approved, and found a line of two ranks
                                    already formed waiting. I fell in at the rear end of the line and we stamped to keep
                                    our feet warm till 12 o'clock, but the Lt. did not make his appearance and
                                    we gave it up and dispersed to our quarters. The kitchen drew beans at last and we
                                    had bean soup at dinner. I eat both cups of soup and turned the laugh on Henry who
                                    acknowledged that he was beaten in the trade. The delegates met and after a good
                                    deal of speeching elected the following committee. A. W. Cockrell (Chairman of
                                    Committee), Hos. D. Hunt, Thos. J. Chambers, W. T. Brantly. A mason came in and
                                    called for all that wanted Testaments or Bibles to form a line. About 60 men fell in
                                    line. The mason counted them and left. There are a few rebs taking the oath (or the
                                        dog as the men call it). The Hydrants have been stopped nearly
                                    all day. The snow is melting. The guards fired several times at prisoners gathering
                                    snow too close to the dead line. Snow fell during the night.
                        Thursday December 15th, 1864. Weather dark and cloudy. Two inches of fresh snow and
                                    still snowing. Gen. Beall reported in Chicago. I fell in again with a line of about
                                    300 at the express office and waited till dinner time and was again disappointed in
                                    getting my letter approved. A few bales of hay were rolled inside the gate and the
                                    hay grabbed for. I saw two bodies nearly naked hauled out in the old smallpox wagon.
                                    They had died in some of the barracks. In the night a crazy prisoner in Barrack No.
                                    15 got up and walked up and down the barrack saying "I see Jesus, I see
                                    Jesus!" He then bolted out into the street and saw the lamp on the fence
                                    and said "There's Jesus. I see his light", and making for
                                    the lamp at the same time he tore it from the fence and run with it saying
                                    "Gory! glory! I have got Jesus". A guard fired at him. The ball
                                    smashed the lamp and knocked it out of his hand. He then run down to the gate where
                                    the guards caught him and took him back to his barrack.
                        Friday December 16th, 1864. Weather cold. Snowing during the fore part of the day. I
                                    thought I would try my luck once more at the 
                                    express office, so I fell in line and waited till near dinner and a Yank came out
                                    and told that the Lt. would not commence approving till one o'clock p. m.
                                    So we dispersed and at the time appointed about 250 of us formed a line of two ranks
                                    and the men went in with their letters open two at a time, and two employed rebs
                                    read them out to a corporal who told them what articles to cancel off as contraband.
                                    The letters were only allowed to be five or six lines long, so it did not take more
                                    than two minutes to two men or letters. My letter was to Dr. Jno. R. Desha of
                                    Lexington, Ky. I saw another body half naked hauled out like a dead horse or dog,
                                    and old Red (O'Hara) marching a squad around for grumbling about their
                                    bread rations. About 60 sick prisoners arrived from the Nashville Hospital. They say
                                    that when they left they could see the Confederate skirmishers from the hospital.50 I heard several shots in camp during the night.
                        [On December 18 Burke returns Henry White's "soup being satisfied
                                    with four cups of bean soup and one of pot-liquor for my one days' ration
                                    of bread, and not wishing to carry so severe a joke any further" (p. 380).]
                        Monday December 19th, 1864. Weather cold. There is some ice and sleet on the ground.
                                    After dinner I got two letters approved one for myself to my Uncle Henry S. Bishop
                                    of Cleveland, Ohio and the other for Pa to his Bro. Wm. H. Burke of Canton, Ohio,
                                    both for under-cloths. I obtained the copy of the transactions of the four committee
                                    men from A. W. Cockrell. The following letter was started with other papers to Gen.
                                    Beall and returned by Col. Sweet with a letter from Col. Sweet requiring the
                                    committee to correct the papers.
                        
                                    Camp Douglas, Ill. Dec. 16th, 1864.
                                    Gen. W. N. R. Beall
                                    New York City.
                                    Acting under the authority vested in us by an election held in accordance with
                                        instructions, published to us in your circular dated New York City Dec. 9, 1864,
                                        and addressed to the Confederate Prisoners of War-Confined at Camp Douglas,
                                        111.-A certificate of said election being herewith enclosed. We beg leave to lay
                                        before you the accompanying report exhibiting the necessities and condition of
                                        the said prisoners at Camp Douglas.
                                    As we have not seen a copy of the late arrangements made between the Confederate
                                        States and the United States to each supply their own prisoners of War with necessary supplies. We are left to infer that the terms
                                        "necessary supplies" refer to the deficial-between present
                                        allowances and actual wants. This report then is based upon that construction of
                                        those terms.
                                    Since about the first of last March our supplies of Medicines have been entirely
                                        inadequate to our wants, and these scant supplies very irregularly furnished.
                                        This scarcity exists even now. The Confederate physicians, prisoners, 
                                 
                                    50 Hood had been positioned outside Nashville
                                                since late November. The battle of Nashville took place December 15-16.
                                                Boatner, The Civil War Dictionary, 579.
                              
                                         who attend our sick in barracks have
                                        received assurance from the Post Surgeon of this Camp- of such a satisfactory
                                        Character as to induce us to with hold from you any application for medical
                                        supplies. At the request of these Medical gentlemen we direct your attention to
                                        the necessity of providing us at once with the vegetables mentioned in the
                                        accompanying report. As a persistent use of a uniform diet almost wholly
                                        unrelieved by vegatables has created strong Scorbutic tendencies among us- which
                                        unless checked may lead to alarming results. It will be of first importance and
                                        indeed indispensable, that the officers who are to receive and distribute these
                                        supplies, should be furnished a building for the storage thereof. General
                                        Beall's experience as a prisoner will suggest to him the expedience of
                                        having these officers paroled to enable them properly to
                                        discharge the duties of the position.
                                    There are three kinds of prisoners as to whom doubts have been suggested, as to
                                        whether they are proper objects of Confederate bounty. 1st Deserters, those who
                                        openly avow themselves as such. 2d. Those who have applied for the Oath, under
                                        President Lincoln's amnesty Proclamation. 3d. Those who are now at work
                                        for the United States Government. In the absence of positive instructions from
                                        you the first class can not receive the bounty of a Government whose claims upon
                                        their allegiance they disown and repudiate. As to the 2d and 3d class there is
                                        more difficulty. As it is the intent which fixes their character and that is a
                                        question of fact to be determined for itself in each individual case-We may
                                        remark that there is no disposition upon the part of our Comrades to have the
                                        paternal care of our Government extended to those however they may at present be
                                        classified who are unwilling to share the fate of that Government be it for weal
                                        or woe. In addition to the heavy estimate of supplies now furnished, a large
                                        margin must be made to accommodate the almost daily accession of new prisoners
                                        contributed from the active campaign now going on. The imperfect character of
                                        report General Beall will have the goodness to attribute to the haste with which
                                        it is gotton up, and scarcity of stationary which may be supplied to us upon the
                                        basis of an entire destitution in that respect.
                                    Respectfully submitted A. W. Cockrell, Chairman Jos. D. Hunt Thos.
                                        J. Chambers W. T. Brantly Board of Officers.
                                    Table showing the number of commissioned officers, citizens and privates held as
                                        "prisoners of war" at Camp Douglas, Chicago, Ill. Dec. 16th,
                                        1864. 1st Sergeants, 163; Sergeants, 508; Corporals, 406; Citizens, 32;
                                        Privates, 9107; Aggregate, 9216 [10,216].
                                    Articles required for "Confederate Prisoners of War" confined
                                        at Camp Douglas, Ill. Dec. 16th, 1864. Blankets, 6971; Coats, 3652; Pants, 4767;
                                        Shirts, 8052; Drawers, 8269; Socks, 13006; Shoes, 3999; Hats, 3032.
                                    Present allowance by U. S. Government per man per day Pork 10 oz. In lieu of
                                        fresh beef
                                    Fresh beef 14 oz.
                                    Soft bread 16 Oz.
                                    Beans or Peas 12 lbs. to the 100 rations
                                    Rice or hominy 8 lbs. " " " " (In lieu of
                                        Beans or Peas)
                                    Soap 4 lbs. to the 100 rations
                                    Vinegar 3 qts. " " " "
                                    
                                    Salt 3 3/41bs. " " "
                                    potatoes 45 " " " " " Every five
                                        days.
                                    Required in addition to the above.
                                    Bacon (sides) 4 oz. per man per day.
                                    Flour 4 oz. " " " "
                                    Potatoes 35 lbs. to the 100 rations per day.
                                    
                              
                                 Cabbage or Krout
                                 Full Rations.
                              
                              
                                 Sugar and Coffee
                              
                              
                                 Molasses
                              
                              
                                 Onions and Pickles
                              
                              
                                 Tobacco
                              
                              
                                 Red pepper
                              
                           
                                    Headquarters Post Camp Douglas.
                                    Chicago, Ill. December 19, 1864.
                                    Lieut. Col. Lewis C. Skinner
                                    Commissary Prisoners Camp Douglas, Ill.
                                    Colonel:
                                    I return herewith for correction and completion, the estimate made by the
                                        committee appointed by the "Prisoners of War", to determine
                                        the supplies they need, forwarded by you yesterday.
                                    The Prisoners will determine what supplies to apply for, precisely as they are
                                        instructed, and in the same order—in the Circular of Brig. Gen. W. A.
                                        R. Beall, P. A. C. S. dated Dec. 9th, 1864. make a table and sign the same.
                                    Dissertation on the duty of rebels to remain as such, and matters relating to
                                        other than such, supplies will not be forwarded.
                                    By Command of B. J. Sweet Col. 8th Reg't. V. R. C.
                                        Commanding Post.
                                    Camp Douglas, Dec. 19th. 1864.
                                    Resp. referred to the Committee for their information.
                                    L. C. Skinner, Lt. Col. & Com. of Prisoners.
                                
                        [Canteens are confiscated by the guards on December 20. "About 500 new
                                    prisoners" arrive on December 22.]
                        Friday December 23d, 1864. Weather cold. The mail fails me again and I feel out of
                                    humor as I fear that I will not be able to have anything good for our Christmas
                                    dinner. Another lot of new prisoners arrived some of them suffering severely from
                                    frost bitten feet and hands. Some had to be hauled in on account of frozen limbs.
                                    Henry  White sold a gray jacket for
                                    $1 and got 1 qt. molasses, 75 cts. and 18 onions 25 cts.
                        Saturday December 24th, 1864. Weather cold. A little snow still remaining. The mail
                                    again fails me, so I came to the conclusion that I must do something or else miss a
                                    good Christmas dinner tomorrow. My only chance was to borrow as I had nothing that I
                                    could afford to sell. I tried to borrow a dollar in shinplasters (greenbacks) from
                                    my orderly sergeant Wm. Miller but was refused. I then tried my friend Hiram Arnett,
                                    Co. A and received it with the offer of more. I also got eight lbs flour at 10 cents
                                    per lb. on credit from one of the cooks (Farwell alias Gunner). I took half of it
                                    over to No. 49 to Pa and he made me some well shortened pie dough, and I spent most
                                    of the day making pies, etc. The cooks baked them for me. I tried to get Smiler the
                                    guard to get me a quarters worth of raisins at the sutler store in the Federal
                                    square, but he refused saying that it was positively forbidden to buy anything for
                                    the prisoners. I made my purchases of our sutler. Another lot of new prisoners
                                    arrived and about 40 crowded into our barrack. All of the bottom bunks and some of
                                    the middle and top bunks had to double up three to the bunk. I and Henry did not
                                    have to take an extra man in. The men call the new prisoners "The new
                                    issue". They brought a good deal of the new issue of Confederate money. It
                                    only sells for a cent on the dollar in green backs, as there is no prospect for an
                                        exchange.51 We sang. The Girl I Left behind Me.
                        Sunday December 25th, 1864. Weather cold. Thawing a little under foot.
                        
                                    T'is the glorious Christmas day. When Christ our Lord was born they say
                                        Hence everyone should love the same And honor this the day he came.
                                
                        I heard but two or three persons catching Christmas gifts. Things went on in the same
                                    dull monotonous way as usually characterizes the daily pursuits of prison life, but
                                    few even thought of having anything extra for dinner. The barrack was cleaned out
                                    and everything hanging up had to be taken down and laid in the bunks. There was no
                                    inspection 
                              
                                 51 The "new issue" is apparently the
                                            paper currency issued as part of the Funding Act of February 17, 1864. This
                                            measure, which failed, was designed to reduce the amount of currency in
                                            circulation and authorize new notes and bonds to help curb rising prices by
                                            contracting the currency. John Christopher Schwab, The
                                                Confederate States of America, 1861-1865: A Financial and Industrial
                                                History of the South during the Civil War (New York, 1901),
                                        64-75.
                           
                                     and we hung our things up again. When dinner
                                    was ready I sent Henry over to invite Pa and his bunk mate Fleming Rice to dinner.
                                    Dinner over, and my guests expressed themselves well pleased. I had plenty and
                                    enough left for Henry and myself to snack on for the next week. My Bill of Fare was
                                    as follows:
                        
                           
                              Boiled Beef
                           
                           
                              Biscuit
                              with shorting
                              Molasses
                           
                           
                              Tea
                              " sugar
                              Chip beef
                           
                           
                              Potatoes
                              " butter Cheese
                           
                           
                              Soft Bread
                              
                              Salt, pepper & vinegar.
                           
                           
                              Delicacies.
                           
                           
                              Prune
                              Pie
                              Tarts
                           
                           
                              Apple
                              "
                              Ginger cake
                           
                           
                              Onion
                              "
                              Spice
                           
                           
                              Potatoe
                              "
                              Apples
                           
                           
                              Vinegar
                              "
                              
                           
                        
                        In the evening some of the men borrowed a fiddle and had dancing for a couple of
                                    hours. We had tea, biscuits, and spice cake for supper. Capt. McDonald has been
                                    superseded by Capt. Hastings,52 who now takes charge of the
                                    prison square. The committee for the prisoners revised their papers and got them
                                    forwarded to Gen. Beall. They say they expect to receive some of the things by the
                                    first of June next.
                        Thursday December 29th, 1864. Weather cold. Nothing of interest. We save the beef we
                                    get at breakfast and dinner and cut it up fine with an onion and a potatoe or two in
                                    a half gallon stew pot then add a pint and a half of water and cook it, thickening
                                    it with flour and bread. It is then set aside and warmed up for breakfast next
                                    morning, as breakfast is issued immediately after roll call.
                        Friday December 30th, 1864. Weather cold. Every morning as soon as the fires are made
                                    the men that have hash to warm up for breakfast commence speaking or a place on the
                                    stove. The man that makes the fire always comes on first, and the balance come on as
                                    they speak first as 2d, 3d, 4th, etc. We eat our half gallon of hash with the two
                                    thirds of a lot of bread we draw. For dinner we have a snack of pie and biscuit
                                    extra and save one third of a loaf of bread for our breakfast dish. (the hash)
                        Saturday December 31.4, 1864. Weather dry and cold. The sutler has sold out or
                                    removed all the eatables and other things that the regulations 
                              
                                 52 Joshua H. Hastings was captain of Company B,
                                            Fifteenth Regiment, Veteran Reserve Corps. Andreas, History of
                                                Chicago, II, 310.
                           
                                     do not allow him to sell. The U. S. Inspectors
                                    are expected here to inspect the camp for the next two or three days.53 When they are gone the Sutler will commence filling up the store again.
                                    As it is now it looks like a Yankee peddler stand. Stock light and
                                        easily moved. As I have some materials left from our Christmas dinner I
                                    concluded to have something extra for a New Year's dinner. Pa made me some
                                    well shortened dough and I spent part of the day making pies, etc. Henry and myself
                                    have had onions and potatoes in our hash all week, also a piece of pie and a couple
                                    of biscuits each every day at dinner for a week, making our rations hold out so that
                                    we had plenty to eat. Smiler (the guard) came in and raised a terrible fuss about
                                    the barrack being dirty. He made us fold our ticks back and fold our blankets nicely
                                    on top of the ticks. We also took down everything hanging up carpet bags, cloths,
                                    etc. and pack them in our bunks. All of our crockery ware, such as tin stew pots,
                                    plates, cups, etc. had to be scoured a new and taken to the kitchen. Then the detail
                                    cleaned the barrack and we waited for the U. S. Inspectors, but dinner time passed
                                    and the guard said that we would not be inspected today. The night was milder than
                                    it has been for a month. Farewell to 1864. Long to be remembered by the prisoners
                                    now at Camp Douglas.
                        
                                    The old year is dying Its breath comes faint and slow And its aged form on the
                                        cold earth lying Is wrapt in a sheet of snow Then let the bells toll for its
                                        weary soul is ebbing fast away And its lonesome ghoul is by its side While the
                                        death pangs play with the old man's frame and he smiles with pride. At
                                        each painful moan, each rattling groan For the grinning watcher is waiting its
                                        own.
                                
                        
                           
                              53 Apparently from entries in the Official
                                            Records there had been weekly inspections by Camp Douglas personnel
                                        since Special Order 317 had been issued August 22, 1864. There were periodic
                                        inspections of all Federal prison camps by representatives of the inspector
                                        general's office.
                        
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Letter to the Editor
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    July 8, 1970
                                
                        Dear Don:
                        Congratulations on the publication of " ‘On the Banks of the
                                    Wabash’: A Musical Whodunit," by Richard W. Dowell (Indiana Magazine of History, LXVI [June, 1970], 95-109). Mr. Dowell has
                                    not been able to solve the mystery definitively, but he has won me over to the side
                                    of Paul Dresser's authorship of our famous song with his very thorough
                                    research and lively writing.
                        You may be interested in the sequel to the three-way rififi that
                                    Lewis Gannett got himself into when he reviewed my The Wabash in his column in the
                                    New York Herald Tribune and innocently quoted my statement in the
                                    book that Dreiser wrote the first verse and chorus of Indiana's state song.
                                    Indeed, there are some details that might lend further interest to the story
                                    Professor Dowell tells accurately but incompletely.
                        
                           The Wabash was published on Monday, February 12, 1940, and Mr.
                                    Gannett's column about it appeared in the February 13 morning edition. On
                                    February 14 in Providence, Rhode Island, where I was living at the time, we had the
                                    worst blizzard that had struck New England in many years. In four or five hours that
                                    night, several feet of snow fell and a high wind made drifts that were head-high.
                                    During those four or five hours my wife and I were downtown in a movie, watching
                                    "Gone With the Wind," in celebration of both the book and a
                                    friend's birthday. It took us literally several hours to work our way afoot
                                    from the movie theatre to our home on "College Hill."
                        In New York Mr. Gannett was stranded in his office by the blizzard and could not get
                                    home to his library to check on my statement about Dreiser, so he passed the problem
                                    over to John Farrar, my publisher, who was, I believe, stranded in his own office.
                                    Farrar then queried me by telegram, and since I was, by then, stranded in my home, I
                                    could only wire back "succinctly," as Professor Dowell says,
                                    "See Dreiser's ‘My Brother Paul’ in Twelve Men."
                        On Saturday, February 17, Gannett gave a second column to the book, reporting what
                                    had happened in the meantime: "Trouble began when the office opened on
                                    Tuesday morning. An indignant subscriber telephoned to protest that the author was
                                    Dresser, not Dreiser…. Before noon the letters began. H. B. Martin of New
                                    York City explained patiently that everyone knew the author was Paul
                                    Dresser…. Claude A. Mahoney telegraphed from Washington that if Dreiser
                                    wrote the verse Hoosiers would have to study history all over again and Terre Haute
                                    would have to rename its bridge…. P. W. Eller wrote from Montclair, N.
                                    J.; John A. Fitzgerald from Ilion, N. Y….. Those were the first of
                                    many."
                        A week or two later Mr. Gannett received a very equivocal message from Theodore
                                    Dreiser himself. Quoted from Gannett's column, it reads: "It
                                    troubles me no little that William E. Wilson should have credited me with the
                                    authorship of ‘On the Banks of the Wabash.’ If I had written
                                    ‘My Brother Paul’ after I achieved an international literary
                                    reputation I certainly would never have so much as mentioned the fact that I had
                                    contributed one word—for, knowing the weight of influence that goes with
                                    a wide literary reputation as I came to know it later, I would then have understood
                                    how a part of the public, at least, might have swung to the belief that I had
                                    written it of course. There was no lie told, but had I realized for an instant that
                                    with some my statement might have taken a little of the glitter from my brother I
                                    certainly would not have written what I did."
                        Mr. Dreiser's "There was no lie told" somewhat invalidates
                                    Professor Dowell's tentative conclusion in his article that Dresser wrote
                                    the words as well as the  music, but the rest of
                                    Mr. Dreiser's letter seems to invalidate his own veracity in that
                                    statement; so I am now on Professor Dowell's side.
                        But in 1940 I was young and The Wabash was my first published book, and I wrote to
                                    Gannett and pointed out that Dreiser's letter vindicated it. Gannett, I
                                    remember, replied that Dreiser was in Hollywood at the time trying to sell a film
                                    based on Paul Dresser's life (W. A. Swanberg's Dreiser [New York, 19651 bears this out.), and maybe we should not upset
                                    the old man's project any more than we already had!
                        So there the matter was dropped—in New York. In Indiana, however, the
                                    Indianapolis Star devoted an editorial to me and my book, dismissing me as
                                    "a downstate schoolmaster." (I am indeed a native of Evansville,
                                    but I never taught in a Hoosier classroom until I came to the Indiana University
                                    faculty in 1950. In 1940, I was Chairman of the English Department of the Rhode
                                    Island School of Design.)
                        … Claude A. Mahoney is a Washington newspaperman and DePauw graduate who
                                    appears as a reporter in one of the Thomas Hart Benton murals in the Indiana
                                    University auditorium lobby. We are now very good friends …. I
                                    don't know how Claude feels now about the Dreiser-Dresser controversy.
                                    Another Hoosier who wrote to me indignantly at that time was a local historian in
                                    Terre Haute whose "complimentary close" to his excoriation was
                                    "Yours, maybe." The one I liked best, however, was a millennialist
                                    in Seymour who, reading between the lines of my book, decided I was the only other
                                    man in the world who knew when the end of the world was coming. I have never been
                                    able to figure out how he derived this valuable information from what I said about
                                    "On the Banks of the Wabash."
                        
                                    Yours, certainly,
                                    [Signed] William E. Wilson
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Indiana Third Congressional District: A Political History. By Paul C.
                    Bartholomew. (Notre Dame: University of Notre Dame Press, 1970. Pp. ix, 238. Notes, tables,
                    appendix, indices. $6.95.)
            Professor of government at the University of Notre Dame and writer of previous books in the field,
                    Bartholomew undertook the difficult assignment of writing a political history of a congressional
                    district from pioneer days in 1831 to 1968. Since such a district changed its boundaries frequently,
                    the author simplified his task a great deal by focusing on the political, congressional history of
                    the four counties that constituted the Third District from 1942 to 1966— St. Joseph,
                    Elkhart, La Porte, and Marshall.
            The author states that his approach was "primarily expository rather than
                    analytical" (p. v). Perhaps "narrative" would have been a better word
                    than "expository," for there is less explanation and interpretation than even the
                    word expository suggests. The work thus becomes pretty much a narration of the campaign struggles
                    between congressional candidates and parties and a listing of election statistics. Each election,
                    including the nomination battles, is reviewed, and valuable charts of election returns give the vote
                    for each candidate in each county and occasionally by townships. An appendix which lists results in
                    the four counties for the entire period shows that up to the political upheaval of 1854-1855 the
                    area was more Democratic than Whig. For several decades following 1854 the area voted Republican,
                    with Schuyler Colfax holding the office from 1855 to 1869, at which time he became vice president
                    under Ulysses S. Grant. From the latter part of the nineteenth century to the present, thanks in
                    part to the present fairly long term of Democrat John Brademas, the party division has been less one
                    sided.
            Though the book is narrative and rather encyclopedic in its approach, it contains a number of
                    interesting sidelights and insights. For example, the fact that in the earlier decades Elkhart
                    County was more likely to vote Democratic while St. Joseph County was more likely to vote Whig and
                    Republican shows the sharp contrast with more recent congressional history. Also the fact that
                    Congressman Charles G. Conn, founder of the Elkhart Daily Truth and of the famous
                    band instrument factory, could have become a Populist in the 1890s suggests a political coloration
                    which one does not ordinarily associate with Elkhart County businessmen today! Congressional races,
                    says the author, were rarely distinguishable from national ones. "Indeed, the total climate
                    of national elections tended to be reflected in the Congressional races" (p. 201). This
                    would tend to confirm the author's assessment that the Third District was a represen-  tative cross section of population with characteristics
                    approaching the national averages.
            One strength of the work is that it is based largely on primary sources: official records and
                    documents, personal interviews, and, especially, district newspapers. A few books, both primary and
                    secondary, were also used. Since David Turpie, one of Colfax' most illustrious opponents in
                    three campaigns, wrote about these contests at some length, his Sketches of My Own
                        Times (1903) could have been added to the list with profit. The author states that
                    "gleanings from the general histories and the biographies proved valuable" (p. v)
                    for his study, but nowhere does he cite the biographies that exist.
            This reviewer wonders whether more discussion on the nature of the population that settled in the
                    Third District would not have laid the groundwork for a fuller and livelier discussion of the issues
                    involved in the political struggles. The author concedes, however, that studies in greater depth are
                    still needed, and in the light of his limited purposes he has succeeded in producing a pioneering,
                    worthwhile book.
            
               Goshen College, Goshen, Ind. Willard H. Smith
         
         
            
               Ohio Canal Era: A Case Study of Government and the Economy, 18201861.
                    By Harry N. Scheiber. (Athens: The Ohio University Press, 1969. Pp. xviii, 430. Maps, notes, tables,
                    chart, appendices, bibliography, index. $10.00.)
            This is a book, the publisher asserts on the dust cover, in which the "standard
                    interpretations of the pre-Civil War revolutions are significantly modified."
                    Notwithstanding one inconclusive hypothesis Professor Scheiber's penetrating study
                    thoroughly justifies the statement. He leaves little doubt of the activist nature of antebellum
                    state transportation policy. Moreover, intervention in the economy by state government during the
                    canal era stimulated industrialization and the growth of Ohio's railroad network in the
                    1850s—a major formative influence upon national economic growth in the nineteenth
                    century.
            Part one treats the impetus for public works and the crucial interplay of politics and ideology on
                    policy making and offers a traditional analysis of canal construction and financing. The obvious
                    politicalization of canal policy, however, leads the author to suggest that egalitarian ideals were
                    primarily responsible for the expansion of the canal system after 1825. The thesis is bold but
                    unconvincing. Egalitarian rhetoric may have "colored" the intellectual milieu of
                    the period (p. 93); but to demonstrate that each locality in the state felt entitled to an
                    improvement is quite different from acknowledging  that policy
                    was made as a result of a belief in the equality of all men and their property (p. 111). To his
                    credit Scheiber frequently recognizes such a distinction, but can one legitimately define an
                    "egalitarian" society as one in which "expectant capitalists"
                    compete in a "desperate struggle" (p. 13)?
            The most substantial contributions are contained in the latter two thirds of the book. In part two,
                    which measures the direction and extent of economic change during the canal era, Scheiber
                    significantly revises the so-called "second phase" (1840-1850) of the
                    transportation revolution. State rate making authority caused significant alterations in commercial
                    traffic patterns in the 1840s, prior to railroad competition of the fifties.
            A shift from public to private transportation construction and the economic impact of the railroad
                    are analyzed in the final section. Unlike decisions of the 1820s and 1830s, later policy makers
                    turned away from public enterprise as the popular conception of the "commonwealth"
                    declined. Instead private railroading was actively encouraged. This development clearly documents a
                    shifting definition of the laissez faire state prior to the Civil War.
            In this otherwise substantial and thoroughly researched volume there are some unfortunate omissions
                    and errors. It would have been helpful to add county boundaries to the map of proposed improvements
                    on page 96. Table 8.2 (p. 195) purports to show commodity trade at Portsmouth from 1833 to 1851 but
                    includes data only from 1836. Table 8.5 (p. 204) is similarly incomplete. Perhaps the most
                    unforgivable publishing error is the reference to Stanley Elkins as Saul Elkins (p. 32).
            
               Humboldt State College, Arcata, Calif. Stephen C. Fox
         
         
            
               Physician to the West: Selected Writings of Daniel Drake on Science &
                        Society. Edited with Introductions by Henry D. Shapiro and Zane L. Miller. (Lexington: The
                    University Press of Kentucky, 1970. Pp. xxxviii, 418. Endmaps, illustration, notes, bibliography of
                    Drake's writings. $12.50.)
            Dr. Daniel Drake has been frequently compared with Benjamin Franklin, although on a reduced scale,
                    but the editors here make clear that actually Drake molded himself after two of his mentors:
                    Benjamin Rush and Benjamin Smith Barton. Though Rush was a rationalist and speculative thinker,
                    which Drake was not, Drake greatly admired him as a mover and shaker in his profession. Barton was
                    an empiricist who emphasized the need for careful observation as the first step in understanding
                    nature's laws and an orderly uni-  verse. Drake could
                    understand that, and it appealed to him because at heart he was a Baconian. The editors regard Drake
                    as "a kind of representative figure struggling to resolve for himself … the
                    tensions which dominated American intellectual life during the first half of the nineteenth
                    century" (p. xii). Rationalism was failing, idealism was faltering, and Drake
                    "opted for a kind of Baconian empiricism as a replacement" (p. xii).
            Penetrating as their analysis is, the editors have not attempted a biography, but only an
                    introduction to Drake's ideas on science and society to show the possibilities and
                    limitations of his method. Seventeen of Drake's essays in whole or in part are reprinted in
                    this book, plus a chunk of his major book, and each has its own editorial preface. Drake seemed to
                    believe that scientific observation was the basis for social order: man must seek his own ends
                    within the context of this knowledge, or he would become the slave of his environment. Drake
                    preferred to generalize from observation rather than to rationalize from abstract principles.
            Despite his wide interests and promotional ability (in the best sense of the phrase) Drake's
                    resemblance to Franklin was never apt because he lacked Franklin's most conspicuous
                    quality—the ability to get along with people. Shapiro and Miller almost ignore this fatal
                    flaw in Drake. They do not mention it in their perceptive essays, but it crops up in their brief
                    introductions and can be seen indirectly in the short chronology of his activities. Drake was at his
                    best as a writer and editor where he could exhort others to join organizations and movements of
                    reform and local improvement. He became chauvinistic about the West and determined that rather than
                    allow it to be pulled in the direction of either New York or New Orleans it should develop its own
                    culture and hold East and South together. He thus played a commendable role in starting or
                    strengthening local institutions, for which the editors declare he had a mania.
            His crowning achievement in writing, he thought, was his Systematic Treatise,
                        Historical, Etiological, and Practical, on the Principal Diseases of the Interior Valley of
                        North America (1850) which the editors point out was simply a systematic ordering of the
                    data he had gathered. When it came to examining the etiology of diseases in volume two, which had
                    little to do with the environment in volume one, Drake lacked the imagination to advance hypotheses
                    and so volume two was never completed.
            Drake has been the subject of three biographies, but never before has he received such sophisticated
                    intellectual treatment. If he now has little standing among physicians, he does among book
                    collectors, who prize his early accounts of Cincinnati and the Ohio Valley as  source material. The editors have included a bibliography invaluable to
                    the collector, but no index.
            
               William L. Clements Library, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor Howard H.
                    Peckham
         
         
            
               The Allegheny Frontier: West Virginia Beginnings, 17301830. By Otis K.
                    Rice. (Lexington: The University Press of Kentucky, 1970. Pp. xiii, 438. Maps, notes, illustrations,
                    bibliography, index. $10.50.)
            Professor Rice has written an excellent socio-economic history of West Virginia for the years 1730 to
                    1830. His emphasis is on people and the difficulties involved in establishing institutions in a
                    frontier community. Special attention is given to such topics as the impact of the
                    Alleghenies' rugged terrain on migration and settlement patterns, frontier life, the role
                    of speculators and absentee landowners in the development of the region, and the exploitative and
                    wasteful practices of frontiersmen. He also considers in some detail the problem of sectionalism
                    within Virginia, particularly the bases of the antagonism between east and west.
            An interesting and significant aspect of the book is the attempt to relate West Virginia's
                    frontier experience to current problems in Appalachia. Rice contends that the rugged terrain of the
                    Allegheny highlands isolated the region and prolonged settlement. Consequently, the development of
                    West Virginia was arrested and the transition from the "pioneer period" to
                    "settled rurality" was almost imperceptable. He suggests, for example, that during
                    the frontier period, "absentee ownership of much of [the] land and resources was fastened
                    upon the state's people, and the portents of waste and exploitation were clearly
                    discernible" (p. xi). Both are still problems in Appalachia—largely because of
                    the prolonged frontier period.
            The arguments presented by Rice are more convincing when he deals with economic questions than when
                    he discusses social and political issues. West Virginia's frontier experience, for
                    instance, may have prevented widespread intolerance among pioneer churches. Other factors, however,
                    were seemingly more important in the results of the 1960 Democratic presidential primary in West
                    Virginia than this "tradition of religious freedom and toleration" (p. 378). The
                    same difficulty exists in attempting to draw parallels between the problems in the nineteenth and
                    twentieth centuries which retarded educational development. The inability to solve these problems
                    does not necessarily mean they were the same.
            The discussion of sectionalism is thorough and well documented for the period of the study. Rice
                    considers at length eastern Vir-  ginia's refusal to
                    assist in the industrial development of the Allegheny counties and such political issues as
                    restrictions on suffrage, under-representation in the General Assembly, and inequities in the court
                    system which contributed to the breach between east and west. His conclusions regarding the
                    importance of these issues, however, raise some questions.
            Perhaps, as the author concludes, "insufficient attention by the state government to
                    economic and political needs of the Allegheny counties, and not clashes over the moral issues of
                    slavery, ultimately resulted in disruption of the Old Dominion and the creation of the state of West
                    Virginia" (p. 341). Since Rice has chosen the 1830s (in most chapters) as his cutoff date,
                    however, this observation hardly seems justified from the evidence presented. Moreover, he fails to
                    consider the possibility that slavery and the desire to perpetuate this institution ultimately
                    influenced most positions taken by eastern Virginians. Hopefully, these issues will be considered in
                    a subsequent volume.
            
               University of Maryland, College Park Richard T. Farrell
         
         
            
               The Uncorrupted Heart: Journal and Letters of Frederick Julius Gustorf,
                        18001845. Edited by Fred Gustorf. Translated by Fred Gustorf and Gisela Gustorf.
                    (Columbia: University of Missouri Press, 1969. Pp. viii, 182. Notes, index. $6.50.)
            In 1834 a young German sailed from LeHavre, France, for the United States with the intention of
                    becoming a permanent resident of the West. Frederick Julius Gustorf had indeed visited America
                    earlier and for about four years had given private instruction in the German language to students at
                    Harvard and Yale. But family commitments required his return to Germany, and he taught English in
                    Frankfurt until his decision to emigrate. In the spring of 1835 Gustorf headed west. A railroad and
                    a canal boat took him to Pittsburgh; steamboats brought him to Cincinnati, Louisville, and St.
                    Louis; he subsequently visited much of Illinois and Missouri on horseback or by wagon. Wherever he
                    went, Gustorf kept a journal although it was periodically interrupted by illness and eye trouble.
                    This journal, written in difficult German script, remained in the possession of the Gustorf family
                    for over a century. It has now been published by Gustorf's great grandson and his wife.
            Gustorf was an educated, observant traveler, interested in many things. Wherever he went, he sought
                    out German settlers and frequently noted the difficulties in which they found themselves. Many
                    immigrants from the Palatinate ran grubby taverns and cafes along  the waterfronts of various cities. Others attempted farming and found their experience and skills
                    ill adapted to the demands of the frontier. Gustorf frequently lamented the frustrations of
                    cultivated city dwellers faced with the rough conditions of pioneer life and commented on the gloom
                    and despondency revealed by many faces. He himself tried farming, sometimes working for nothing in
                    order to test his own abilities; but, until his marriage to an Englishwoman residing near Peoria,
                    Illinois, in 1837, he spent much of his time visiting settlements, talking to settlers, and
                    observing both social life and the singularities of the American topography. A small inheritance
                    provided a bare subsistence for him, and western hospitality often helped him with lodging and
                    transportation which he could not otherwise have afforded.
            Gustorf's observations confirm and extend the descriptions supplied by such better known
                    travelers as Charles Dickens, Frances Trollope, and Morris Birkbeck. He too had his share of crowded
                    steamboats, meals eaten wolfishly, insect pests, and unsanitary accommodations. But Gustorf was no
                    celebrity. He traveled the hard way, fording streams, wading through mud holes, living on bacon and
                    corn-bread, sleeping on the floors of cabins or on table tops where his bedding was infested with
                    bed bugs. If he seldom complained, he also never disguised the facts. Western life was freer than
                    the existence formerly known by a cultivated foreigner; land was cheap, people were gregarious and
                    often surprisingly helpful, but the Illinois and Missouri of the 1830s were often primitive areas.
                    Shining exceptions in his memory were visits to George Flower at Albion, Illinois, and Wilhelm Von
                    Bock, who operated a farm next to the colony founded by Gottfried Duden near Washington, Missouri.
                    Gustorf, incidentally, was much concerned about the complaints of German settlers who felt that they
                    had been tricked by Duden's fraudulent publicity.
            Gustorf's journal is readable and pleasantly specific, whereas the love letters to his
                    fiancee Harriet Benson are romantically rhetorical. The annotation provided by Fred Gustorf is rich
                    in reference to all German settlers, somewhat skimpy and even inaccurate in other matters.
                    Peck's Gazetteer, for example, is not identified, nor is the sculptor
                    Hiram Powers (whose name the diarist misspells); Carl Wittke's first name is wrongly given.
                    In reading any such account it is probably the details that survive in one's memory.
                    Gustorf, the "uncorrupted heart" who could not be content in large cities, found
                    many such details of interest. Perhaps not the least vivid is the description of the German butcher
                    near St. Louis who manufactured quantities of acceptable bratwurst in a machine
                    operated by horsepower!
            
               University of Illinois, Urbana John T. Flanagan
         
         
         
            
               The Michigan Search for Educational Standards. By Charles R. Starring and James
                    O. Knauss. A History of Education in Michigun, Volume II. (Lansing: Michigan
                    Historical Commission, 1969. Pp. xii, 225. Illustrations, appendix, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $6.00.)
            The coauthors of the second in a four volume History of Education in Michigan trace
                    the story of primary and secondary education in Michigan between 1850 and 1908. During these years,
                    which coincide with the lifetime of the state's second constitution, the public schools
                    grew from their simple pioneer beginnings into a complex system striving to meet the changing needs
                    of an increasingly urban, industrial society. The continuing conflict between centralization and
                    decentralization of the state's educational system is the book's central theme.
            Professors Starring and Knauss show how, through a trial and error approach, the nineteenth century
                    struggles to control local school systems and to provide adequate financial support for education
                    were ultimately resolved in favor of the advocates of centralization. The most striking and
                    significant victory for the centralists was the rapid expansion of the authority and influence of
                    the office of state superintendent of public instruction. Other developments reflecting the general
                    trend toward centralization included the adoption of standardized courses of study, the attempt to
                    require uniform state textbooks, the movement to consolidate school districts, the tightening of
                    truancy and compulsory education laws, the improvement of teacher training programs, and better
                    health and sanitation facilities.
            Educational leadership in Michigan during the period was provided by the presidents and faculty of
                    the University of Michigan and the Michigan State Normal School at Ypsilanti and by the state
                    superintendents who emphasized the procurement of better teachers by improved supervision,
                    certification, and training. The authors recount the individual contributions of these men in
                    informative biographical sketches.
            This brief book is both thorough and authoritative in detailing the major developments in public
                    education in Michigan during the years surveyed. However, it falls short of the ideal in several
                    respects. The authors give little evidence of an acquaintance with the broad, national movements in
                    education during the period. For example, only passing reference is made to such important themes as
                    the influence of the educational philosophies of Johann Pestalozzi, Friedrich Froebel, and John
                    Dewey, the beginnings of manual training, and the fundamental reasons for curriculum changes. A
                    certain  lack of perspective is also revealed in the rare
                    references to comparable educational developments in other states.
            While competent and largely free of factual and grammatical errors, the writing is, nonetheless,
                    uninspired. The authors occasionally lapse into documented minutiae and on occasion seem unable to
                    distinguish the significant from the trivial. There is also an absence of charts and tables which
                    might have been effectively employed to convey some of the authors' statistical
                    information. Despite these limitations, this well documented study fills an important gap in the
                    history of education in Michigan.
            
               Indiana State University, Terre Haute Herbert J. Rissler
         
         
            
               All Our Yesterdays: A Brief History of Detroit. By Frank B. Woodford and Arthur
                    M. Woodford. (Detroit: Wayne State University Press, 1969. Pp. 410. Maps, illustrations, notes on
                    illustrations and maps, selected bibliography, index. Paperbound, $3.95.)
            As Dwight Hoover so aptly demonstrated in the 1968 summer supplement of American
                        Quarterly, urban history has no clearly established methodology or predominant theory.
                    Although a number of urban historians are emphasizing the process of urbanization characteristic of
                    the more complex municipalities or testing some of the older social and historiographical concepts
                    with data from cities, the traditional form of urban history—the biography of a
                    city—is likely to persist for some time.
            
               All Our Yesterdays, billed as the first history of Detroit published in the last
                    twenty-five years, is such a biography. Written primarily by the late Frank B. Woodford, a native
                    son, longtime staff member of the Detroit Free Press, author of several books on
                    aspects of Detroit history, and city historiographer late in his life, the work displays the assets
                    and flaws of a very close familiarity with its subject. Woodford's research for books on
                    several prominent men of Detroit as well as the author's lifetime association with the
                    city, enabled him to accumulate the unsurpassed reservoir of anecdote and detail which appears in
                    this general survey. Yet those who are neither antiquarians nor natives or residents of Detroit may
                    be distressed by the detail included.
            The basic chronological organization of the book touches upon early exploration in the Detroit area;
                    initial acquisition by the French, whose cultural stamp persisted for some time beyond their
                    political authority; the brief British interlude; then the official, but tenuous, though
                    increasingly secure, American possession of Detroit. Political, social, and economic events are
                    woven together in the survey of the  French and British periods.
                    Once the narrative reaches the transfer of Detroit to the United States, the treatment shifts to
                    topical chapters on cultural, philanthropic, political, social, and economic matters within the
                    chronological skeleton. At the midpoint of the book there is a nostalgic look at Detroit during the
                    last decade of the nineteenth century. By that time population standards qualified Detroit as a
                    city, and its cultural variety created an appealing charm which unfortunately diminished during the
                    next fifty years. Throughout the book the relationship of regional and national events to
                    Detroit's history are noted.
            Most readers of All Our Yesterdays will welcome the extensive chronological table
                    at the back of the book, and, although the maps and photographs are typical of biographies of
                    cities, they do capture some of the character of Detroit. Professional historians will regret the
                    scanty bibliography and the absence of reference notes.
            
               All Our Yesterdays is both too long and too short as a study of one of
                    America's major cities. If much of the inside information, meaningful only to natives and
                    residents, and the antiquarianism had been eliminated, the book would have been shorter and tighter
                    in composition. If more analysis and greater insight into the nature of Detroit and its special
                    qualities had been provided, it would have been longer and more satisfactory. As it is, the book
                    fairly compactly chronicles the major events in Detroit's past from initial settlement down
                    to the riot of late July, 1967. Any rigorous and thorough study of such a large and complex city
                    must be more extensive and must furnish the reader with a better understanding of Detroit's
                    character and the driving forces behind what appears on the surface.
            
               Drake University, Des Moines Walter R. Houf
         
         
            
               Free Soil, Free Labor, Free Men: The Ideology of the Republican Party before the
                        Civil War. By Eric Foner. (New York: Oxford University Press, 1970. Pp. xii, 353. Notes,
                    selected bibliography, index. $8.50.)
            Although hardly the "significant re-evaluation of the causes of the Civil War" that
                    the dust jacket advertises, this study nevertheless will command scholarly attention. It presents
                    detailed kaleidoscopic views of the complicated Republican ideological scene, shifting deftly to
                    adjust for change in time, geography, and attitude. Taking Radical spokesmen pretty much at their
                    word, Foner concludes that Republican ideology did indeed rest upon the demand for "Free
                    Soil, Free Labor, Free Men," just as the campaign banners said. All the various factions
                    within the party are represented in the study, but a  space
                    emphasis goes to the Radicals, particularly to Salmon P. Chase, Charles Sumner, Joshua R. Giddings,
                    George W. Julian, Carl Schurz, Preston King, and Benjamin F. Butler. Representatives of Republican
                    business interests get considerably less exposure. The index lists, for example, only seven
                    references to Thurlow Weed, six to David Davis, five to Thomas Corwin, five to Thomas Ewing, three
                    to Edward Bates, and two each to William M. Evarts and Caleb Blood Smith. As a result the party is
                    made to seem less Whiggish than it was.
            Foner argues, not too convincingly, that "ideology represents much more than the convenient
                    rationalization of material interests" (p. 5). Using the phraseology of the once
                    fashionable Gestalt psychologists, he asserts rather mystically that the Republican ideology was
                    "more than merely the sum of its component parts" (p. 10). He criticizes
                    "revisionists" for "denying altogether the urgency of the moral
                    issue," but he admits that "to explain Republicans' actions on simple
                    moral grounds is to miss the full richness of their ideology," which he characterizes as a
                    "profoundly successful fusion of value and interests" (pp. 5, 10).
            Foner is quick to defend Republican motivations. He claims it is "too simple" for
                    Clifford S. Griffin to say that "Republican leaders speedily deserted temperance and
                    anti-foreignism as soon as they realized that anti-slavery was even more popular" (p. 259).
                    He complains that Leon Litwack, Eugene Berwanger, and Robert F. Durden "have carried a good
                    point too far" in taking "the Republicans to task for racial prejudice within
                    their ranks" (p. 333). His evidence in at least one instance is flimsy. He cites a hectic
                    vote during the last days of the Peace Conference in February, 1861, to indicate that "a
                    majority of the Republican party stood by the citizenship of the Negro on the eve of the Civil
                    War" (p. 293). An examination of the circumstances reveals that the amendment in question
                    was a parliamentary tactic designed to make the initial proposal so objectionable that it would be
                    defeated.
            Although not afraid to generalize, Foner sometimes generalizes unfairly. For example, he claims that
                    "few historians would go as far as William Best Hesseltine" in concluding that
                    "the Republicans" were "little more than an enlarged Whig party disguised
                    in a new vocabulary" (p. 149). Yet Hesseltine carefully qualifies this statement in
                    context, specifically excepting Massachusetts and indicating that this was the case in those states
                    "where industry and commerce were supreme and where the financial centers of the land were
                    located" (Lincoln and the War Governors, 1948, p. 18).
            
               Free Soil, Free Labor, Free Men provides a lively, well docu-  mented digest of what pre-Civil War politicians said. Foner's
                    next book should put Republican words to the test of Republican deeds.
            
               Indiana University, Bloomington Robert G. Gunderson
         
         
            
               The Slave Power Conspiracy and the Paranoid Style. By David Brion Davis. The Walter Lynwood Fleming Lectures in Southern History. (Baton Rouge: Louisiana
                    State University Press, 1969. Pp. ix, 97. Notes. $4.00.)
            The 1969 Fleming lecturer at Louisiana State University applies to the slavery controversy Richard
                    Hofstadter's concept of a "paranoid style" in American politics. David
                    Brion Davis points out that the polemics of antislavery and antiabolition had some striking
                    similarities to the propaganda directed in the first half of the nineteenth century against
                    Freemasonry, Roman Catholicism, and Mr. Biddle's Bank. All identified a vast conspiratorial
                    movement that was seen as threatening the fundamental values of American society.
            Drawing upon sociological concepts developed in Erving Goffman's The
                        Presentation of Self in Everyday Life (1959), Davis suggests that the fluidity of status
                    and role in this period made Americans singularly sensitive to the poses unconsciously assumed by
                    the members of various classes and professions. In assuming the manners and style of a status or
                    role, a man joins the "conspiracy" of his "team" to project a
                    certain definition of themselves and the social situation. At a time when so many men were new to
                    their roles, they were more conscious of this kind of conspiracy in themselves and in others. Hence,
                    Davis suggests, the pronounced "paranoid" tendency to interpret conflicts in
                    conspiratorial terms.
            Within this conceptual framework Davis has some fresh and perceptive things to say about the slavery
                    controversy. But his analysis reveals more about the social conditions encouraging a
                    "paranoid" view of conflict than about the slavery conflict itself. He cautiously
                    ducks the question of how much justification the antagonists had for viewing each other as
                    conspiratorial and subversive. Nor does he attempt to measure the causal force of the paranoid
                    disposition.
            Davis is cautious, too, about the conservative implications of this kind of analysis. Perhaps, he
                    concludes, "the image of the Slave Power was a necessary means for arousing the fears and
                    galvanizing the will of the North to face a genuine moral and political challenge" (P. 85).
            This conclusion raises some doubts about the whole concept of a "paranoid style."
                    The parties to a conflict usually exaggerate each others' malignancy and conspiratorial
                    potency. At what point does this normal human tendency become a "paranoid style"?
                    And the  very concept creates a pejorative presumption of
                    irrationality about those who protest social evils.
            
               University of California, Berkeley Charles Sellers
         
         
            
               Radicalism, Racism, and Party Realignment: The Border States during
                    Reconstruction. Edited by Richard O. Curry. (Baltimore: The Johns Hopkins Press, 1969. Pp.
                    xxvi, 331. Notes, maps, tables, bibliographical essay, index. $10.00.)
            Richard O. Curry argues in his Introduction that Reconstruction cannot be understood by focusing on
                    events only in Congress and the South: "The crucial battlegrounds in the epic struggle of
                    1865-67 … were not located in Washington or the South, but in New England, the middle
                    west, the border states, and the Middle Atlantic states" (p. xiii). He sees the present
                    collection of essays as one step toward correcting the imbalance prior scholarship has created.
                    Included are six state studies and three topical pieces, each written especially for this volume by
                    ten historians familiar with the problems of border state history. Curry and his colleagues stress
                    the continuity between antebellum and Reconstruction border state politics, especially noting its
                    conservative essence. In states where Republican rule was established during and just after the war,
                    it was made possible only through disenfranchisement of Rebel "sympathizers" and
                    by playing on wartime animosities. By 1870 most Republican power crumbled before a coalition of
                    conservative Unionists, reenfranchised Rebels, and liberal Republican defectors.
            Not much holds the state studies together besides this major theme. Each scholar goes his own way
                    with varying degrees of comprehensiveness and success. Charles Wagandt's essay on Maryland,
                    Ross A. Webb's on Kentucky, and Curry's own piece on West Virginia stand out for
                    their treatment of the broader issues of Reconstruction as integral factors in state politics. The
                    other state chapters, though they get bogged down in detail, still make competent introductions to
                    Reconstruction in Tennessee, Missouri, and Delaware.
            The topical essays vary widely in quality. W. Augustus Low's survey of Freedmen's
                    Bureau activities suffers from trying to cover six states in twenty pages. On the other hand,
                    William Gillette acutely analyzes federal enforcement of the Fifteenth Amendment in the border
                    states from a variety of perspectives. Ari Hoogenboom and Jacqueline Balk account for the rise and
                    fall of border state liberal Republicanism in a generally impressive piece. The authors, however,
                    allow their dislike of Radical Republicanisim and sympathy for the liberals to get in the way of a
                    realistic assessment of political  possibilities. Thus they
                    attack the Radicals for not seeking "pragmatic accommodations" with liberal
                    Republicans or Democrats, and hold this responsible for their downfall (p. 233). At the same time,
                    they clearly show that liberal Republicans met their doom precisely because they naively
                    accommodated their enemies. Perhaps Radical efforts to keep many Democrats diaenfranchised should
                    not be looked upon with unqualified favor, but it certainly was the single factor which kept
                    Republicans in office after 1865.
            This same attitude toward Radical Republicanism and its disenfranchisement efforts can be seen in
                    some of the state studies. As William Parrish puts it for Missouri, Republicans'
                    vindictiveness "overshadowed their positive program and ultimately split and destroyed
                    their party" (p. 2). It seems more reasonable to this reviewer that voting proscription was
                    in fact necessary to the implementation of Republican programs. The Radicals were overthrown not
                    because they flouted democracy, but because their platform, no matter how conservative and racist it
                    seems to twentieth century scholars, wits a wild eyed anathema to Democrats and many liberal
                    Republicans.
            Such criticism does not negate the contribution of Radicalism, Racism, and Party
                        Realignment. Curry and his colleagues have broadened the view of Reconstruction and have
                    produced a welcome introduction to border states' affairs during that turbulent era.
            
               University of California, Berkeley Robert H. Abzug
         
         
            
               Politics and Patronage in the Gilded Age: The Correspondence of James A. Garfield and
                        Charles E. Henry. Edited by James D. Norris and Arthur H. Shaffer. (Madison: State
                    Historical Society of Wisconsin, 1970. Pp. xxix, 304. Notes, illustrations, index.
                    $7.95.)
            Charles E. Henry and James A. Garfield first met when the former was a student at the Western Reserve
                    Eclectic Institute, and the latter was its principal. They bokh served in the Forty-second Ohio
                    Volunteers, and after the war Henry watched over Garfield's congressional district in
                    northeastern Ohio. Henry was a loyal lieutenant, eager to promote his close friend's
                    fortunes. He managed Garfield's campaigns for the United States House of Representatives
                    and for the Senate in 1880 and worked in the presidential campaign of that year.
            Garfield secured appointments for Henry first as an ordinary mail clerk, then as a postal
                    investigator. Henry was a fervent Republican but worked to improve mail service and vigilantly
                    guarded  against malfeasance among postal employees under his
                    jurisdiction. The astute, candid Henry quickly became an effective "two-way conductor of
                    information between Garfield and his constituents" (p. xx). This was a difficult task,
                    given Ohio's turbulent electorate. Both by necessity and temperament, Garfield was a
                    moderate Republican and relied on Henry to report on voter attitudes. Henry travelled regularly and
                    believed that "light is better than darkness in politics as well as other things"
                    (p. 20). He tirelessly explained Garfield's stands on the currency, tariff protection, and
                    other controversial issues, and tried to harmonize local factions. Both men paid close attention to
                    appointments and veterans' benefits, but their letters reveal no corruption. Corrupt or
                    inefficient officeholders were politically disastrous in small communities where neighbors knew each
                    other's business and regularly debated public questions. As Henry said: "I am well
                    aware of the importance of selecting only men of judgement in that dangerous thing
                    politics" (p. 78). Garfield's occasional errors of selection reflected poor
                    information, not indifference or favoritism. The correspondence reveals popular interest in politics
                    and shows how much time and energy were necessary to persuade and control a diverse electorate. The
                    editors wisely allow the documents to speak for themselves, and the editorial apparatus does not
                    distract the reader. The footnotes are especially useful for identifying a wide range of people, and
                    the index is comprehensive. This handsome book shows how effectively local materials can help the
                    student of larger questions, and is an important source for the development of American political
                    parties.
            
               University of Texas, Austin H. Wayne Morgan
         
         
            
               The Vanity of Power: American Isolationism and the First World War,
                        19141917. By John Milton Cooper, Jr. Contributions in American
                        History, No. 3. Edited by Stanley I. Kutler. (West-port, Conn.: Greenwood Publishing
                    Corporation, 1969. Pp. xii, 271. Notes, appendix, tables, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $11.50.)
            One of the proverbial spoils of war is the victor's advantage in writing its history. The
                    same might be said of the political battles preceding entry of the United States into World War I.
                    The passing of a half century sms to have fixed rather than dispelled this kind of bias even in some
                    purportedly scholarly literature dealing with the views and arguments of the noninterventionists of
                    that day. In The Vanity of Power Cooper repudiates "still-prevalent
                    morality-play" (p. 218) accounts of struggles about foreign policy and undertakes in-  stead to "examine" (p. 1) the development of
                    the losers' position. Pursuit of this theme through 219 liberally footnoted pages produces
                    considerable new information and a distinct improvement in the tone of discussion, but falters when
                    it comes to establishing a satisfactory framework of terminology for clarifying issues, motives, and
                    policy positions.
            It is obvious that this study is based on intensive and careful research, and that it generally
                    strives to move with intellectual integrity from the accumulation of data to the formulation of
                    supportable conclusions. Disturbing exceptions are: a refrain of references to the alleged attitudes
                    and influence of German-Americans, despite the fact that by the author's own eventual
                    admission (pp. 223, 231-32) evidence on this point is inconclusive; the gratuitous disparagement of
                    William Jennings Bryan by a frequently belittling treatment, when other interpretations would be at
                    least as plausible; and the wholly unconvincing attempt in the book's
                    "Conclusion" to absolve today's "neo-isolationists" of
                    "isolationism." Occasional digressions from the author's area of
                    competence produce regrettable results. An imaginative excursion into the presumed forensic strategy
                    of Woodrow Wilson's war message prompts an incursion into theology, a blurring of Lutheran
                    concepts of grace and of the freedom of the individual conscience, and the conclusion that Wilson
                    was "sinning boldly" at Washington, as Martin Luther had at Worms. Both would be
                    astonished to hear what can be deduced from a little presidential paraphrase.
            On balance, however, such lapses are more than outweighed by the value of the evidence presented and
                    a conscientious attempt to transcend what the author designates as the
                    "behavioral" and "rhetorical" techniques his predecessors have
                    used in dealing with the loyal opposition in this "Great Debate." Informed and
                    judicious evaluation of source materials presented in a "Bibliographical Essay"
                    should be of substantial help to other students of the subject. The sixteen tables and accompanying
                    comments in the Appendix are less valuable.
            A serious disappointment in a work that consistently stresses conceptualization, rather than mere
                    description, is its failure to develop more accurate and meaningful categories for the ideas
                    discussed; furthermore, those categories offered do not wear well when subjected to the use made of
                    them. "Isolationism" and "internationalism" are ideological
                    formulations of attitudes rather than specific policies. Yet, for practical purposes, each is
                    identified with a policy position (antiintervention and intervention respectively) that enjoyed a
                    wider span of support. Efforts to meet the resulting difficulties by establishing the motivational
                    subclassif ications of "idealists" and "nationalists" (the
                    latter usually preceded by the pejorative prefix "ul- 
                    tra") fail not only because the descriptions of these groups are crudely colored, but
                    because they do not stand up when taken at face value. To offer only one example:
                    "Idealists" whose hybris was so overwhelming as to make them
                    believe that God's voice was calling to America out of a burning continent to impose a
                    "just" settlement and build a new international order according to American
                    specifications are not above the suspicion of having been (ultra-?) nationalists too. However, this
                    flaw is not irreparable. Cooper recognizes the urgent need for more viable definitions than those
                    available; with his admirable instinct for questioning stereotypes, he may find the answers.
            
               Purdue University, Lafayette Walter O. Forster
         
         
            
               Controversy in the Twenties: Fundamentalism, Modernism, and Evolution. Edited by
                    Willard R. Gatewood, Jr. (Nashville: Vanderbilt University Press, 1969. Pp. ix, 459. Notes, note on
                    secondary sources, index. $10.00.)
            Building on his recently published monograph of the evolution controversy in North Carolina, Preachers, Pedagogues, and Politicians (1966), Willard Gatewood has now gathered
                    together a representative collection of documents illustrating the course of that controversy in the
                    nation at large. It is a comprehensive collection of materials, and Vanderbilt University Press is
                    to be congratulated for allowing Gatewood ample space to do his work.
            The collection begins with excerpts from writings which present the essential theological positions
                    of fundamentalists and modernists and those of critics of both positions within the church, then
                    proceeds to outline the nature of the fundamentalist critique of science generally and the concept
                    of evolution in particular, and some of the responses from nonfundamentalists to this attack. The
                    remainder of the documents demonstrate the impact of the controversy on American educational
                    institutions, on politics, and on literature. There is a brief (fortunately) section devoted to the
                    Scopes Trial, and the collection concludes with some interesting contemporary evaluations of the
                    significance of the evolution controversy in the broad context of American culture.
                    Gatewd's brief introductory heading to each document and occasional editorial comments are
                    proper examples of effective, unobtrusive editing. The book is also enhanced by a detailed forty-six
                    page introduction written by the editor and a very helpful annotated bibliography, both of which
                    supplement and bring up to date the work of Norman Furniss on the same topic over a decade ago.
            Gatewood realizes more fully than did Furniss earlier that the fundamentalist-modernist controversy
                    was grounded as much in theological issues and problems within the churches as in the problems of
                         social cleavage (e.g., the so-called rural-urban conflict)
                    of America in the twenties. He also documents effectively some of the suggestive comments Paul
                    Carter has made recently about the evolution controversy in the context of an evolving urban society
                    in the twenties. Gatewood's characterization of modernism is especially interesting and
                    persuasive. His view of the historical background of fundamentalism is less effectively presented.
                    Although he is familiar with the important research of Ernest Sandeen on this topic, he has not
                    fully exploited the insights provided by the latter author. Gatewood has recognized the importance
                    of Sandeen's discoveries about the connections of fundamentalism and premillenialist
                    thought but has failed to stress the even more important connections of fundamentalism and
                    dispensationalism, which have been central to Sandeen's work. This simply underscores the
                    fact that more needs to be done to explore the theological and strictly religious aspects of the
                    fundamentalist movement and those historical developments, like the evolution controversy,
                    associated with it. Gatewood properly reflects the shift in perspective that is beginning to affect
                    present understanding of these movements; yet it is possible, and necessary, to push his perceptions
                    further than he has done in this publication.
            In sum and substance, however, Gatewood's collection of documents and his own comments as
                    editor combine to provide the student of the twenties with a useful, indeed important, addition to
                    the historical literature of that period. This book will now be one of the starting points for any
                    person trying to understand one of the basic social and intellectual conflicts of the
                    "Republican era" between the wars.
            
               DePauw University, Greencastle James F. Findlay
         
         
            
               The Prairie Potawatomi: Tradition and Ritual in the Twentieth Century. By Ruth
                    Landes. (Madison: The University of Wisconsin Press, 1970. Pp. xii, 420. Notes, illustrations,
                    appendices, bibliography, index. $12.50.)
            Among the present day Plains tribes in the United States the Prairie Potawatomi, who live on a
                    reservation near Mayetta, Kansas, are noteworthy in the extent to which they have preserved many of
                    their traditional rituals and mythology. Like other Indian tribes in North America, their folkways
                    are rapidly disappearing, and it is to Ruth Landes' credit that she has written up,
                    documented, and interpreted in detail her field work among this group. For the scholar looking for a
                    study on the total Prairie Potawatomi culture, this book does not serve the purpoBe, since it
                    concentrates on the religious  rituals and traditions with some
                    attention to certain related aspects such as the kinship system, gens, methods of naming, and
                    ceremonial games. The publication partakes of a compendium and makes difficult reading: the author
                    often presents her interpretations in an isolated organized fashion and does not provide a summary
                    or section of conclusions. The lack of detailed descriptions, photographs, or sketches on the
                    material aspects of ceremonialism makes this report primarily of value to those interested in
                    behavior.
            Landes began her field work among the Prairie Potawatomi under the auspices of Columbia University in
                    1935, a period which lasted seven months; she then revisited this tribe in 1964. As a result, she
                    was able to enrich her report with observations on the dynamics and change in ceremonialism. Her
                    prior fieldwork among other Central Algonquin tribes, such as the Ojibwa, and the San tee Dakota
                    have made her well qualified to make meaningful comparisons with the cultures most closely related
                    to the Prairie Potawatomi.
            The Potawatomi on the Mayetta reservation in 1935-1936 included some 870 members on the rolls. Prior
                    to their migrations into the Plains (after 1837) they lived in the area surrounding the west and
                    south sides of the Great Lakes. Once on the Plains their economy was adapted to a buffalo hunting
                    and horticultural base. While their traditional religious rituals and mythology were preserved, some
                    of the members of the band adopted new religious cults such as the Peyote Cult and the Religious
                    Dance, which were a syncretism of Plains and Christian religious elements. Nevertheless, their
                    traditional religious complex, centering on the Medicine Bundle societies, was still extant to the
                    extent that the members were still the prime power governing groups on the Mayetta reservation in
                    1935-1936.
            The Medicine Bundle societies and their rites, led by shamans, functioned to preserve the general
                    welfare for both the members and the group as a whole. As among the Woodland tribes of the Great
                    Lakes area, however, it had a negative side in that acts of sorcery were held to bewitch or kill the
                    enemies, within or outside the band. The medicine bundles, the central cult object, were acquired by
                    their keepers' inheritance, as gifts, or by stealing.
            Of equal importance for individual welfare among the Prairie Potawatomi was the custom of keeping
                    personal "medicine," a series of objects and rites that were acquired by the
                    vision quest. Among some individuals, there was hardly an act performed during the day that was
                    unaccompanied by rituals of this type.
            The functions of the Religious Dance, which did not have entirely mutually exclusive membership, were
                    "powers" over the rites de passage of naming, marriage, burial,
                    purification of death, and illness. On the other hand, the Peyote cult dogma and rites had more
                    restric-  tive functions, that is for the cure of illness and
                    the restoration of mental health by the public confession of misdeeds.
            
               Indiana University Museum, Bloomington Wesley R. Hurt
         
         
            
               Sit-Down: The General Motors Strike of 19361937. By Sidney Fine. (Ann
                    Arbor: The University of Michigan Press, 1969. Pp. ix, 448. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical
                    note, index. $12.50.)
            Professor Fine intended this work to be a "documented, book-length study … based
                    on the sources, of the origins, character, and consequences of this momentous labor
                    conflict" (p. vii), the United Automobile Workers' strike against General Motors.
                    He achieves his goal admirably in this thoroughly researched volume. Fine demonstrates impressive
                    skill in analyzing events, policies, personalities, and previous accounts of the strike without
                    losing the thread of his dramatic narrative. Describing the "Battle of the Running
                    Bulls" in the opening chapter, he immediately confronts the reader with the explosiveness
                    and urgency of the situation. And by comparing the strike at Flint with the secondary struggle at
                    the General Motors plant in Anderson, Indiana, he convincingly demonstrates his thesis that bold
                    econamic action by the union had to supplement a prolabor attitude by public officials in order to
                    defeat the company.
            Although the major issue was the UAW's insistence on exclusive bargaining rights, Fine
                    properly places this demand in its larger context: the struggle by the Congress of Industrial
                    Organizations for recognition by industry—and by its rival, the American Federation of
                    Labor—of its principle of industrial unionism. The success of both the UAW and the CIO,
                    the author concludes, was the result of the aggressiveness of such men as Roy Reuther and Bob
                    Travis, whose leadership was "nothing short of brilliant" (p. 310); the bargaining
                    skill of John L. Lewis; and the mediating efforts of Michigan governor, Frank Murphy, who emerges as
                    the hero of this book. Fine portrays Murphy as displaying a "compassion for the
                    weak" (p. 150), which led him to identify with the strikers; physical stamina, which
                    enabled him to endure the long bargaining sessions; and above all, an enlightened sense of the
                    public interest, which helped him strike a proper balance between property vs. human rights.
            On the other hand Fine criticizes GM spokesmen for being too insensitive to changing times, the AFL
                    leadership for being too senile, and various minor public officials for interpreting "law
                    and order" too narrowly. One wonders, however, whether the author's criteria
                    permitted him to judge adequately GM's role in settling the strike. True, the conduct of
                    several plant managers, the intransigence of two  of the
                    principal negotiators, plus the activities of company hired labor spies deserved censure. Yet it
                    seems that, when compared to the conduct of industries prior to 1936 and certainly when compared to
                    Henry Ford's behavior in 1937, GM's performance was relatively enlightened. Fine
                    does point out that both William Knudsen and Lawrence Fisher placed industrial peace and production
                    above outmoded concepts of property rights, but his summation needs to convey the importance of
                    these attitudes more forcefully.
            Regarding personalities, struggles for leadership, internal problems, and formulations of strategies,
                    this volume provides a clearer picture of the union than of the company. Perhaps this unevenness
                    arises from the nature of the evidence in labor-management clashes or from GM's reticence
                    to be as "open" as the UAW. Such criticisms, however, are minor. This encyclopedic
                    account is a definitive work and will be required reading for specialists in the history of the
                    1930s or of the labor movement.
            
               Bowling Green State University, Bowling Green, O. Michael Moore
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
