
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 52, Issue 4, pages 319-452. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:52+issue:4+year:1956&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Early American Interest in Waterway Connections Between the East and the West
            
                    William R. Willoughby
                    *
                
            Although the history of the St. Lawrence waterway project might suggest a
                    different conclusion, it is a well-established fact that the American people
                    have always been keenly interested in water transportation and have generally
                    indicated a willingness to support at public expense navigation improvements
                    which have national importance. Particularly was this true in the early history
                    of the republic when railroads were unknown, roads were few in number and
                    abominable in quality, and waterways provided the most satisfactory highways
                    into the interior. The purpose of this paper is to suggest some of the reasons
                    for the early emergence of American interest in the development of waterway
                    connections between the Eastern Seaboard and the settlements west of the
                    Appalachians and to indicate some of the actions that were taken looking toward
                    the development of such connections.
            First, however, it may be helpful to comment briefly on the physiography of the
                    area under review, that is to say, the portion of the present-day 
                        United States
                     lying east of the 
                        Mississippi
                     River. The most prominent feature of this region is, of course, the
                    Appalachian mountain range, 300 miles in width and 1,300 miles long, which
                    extends from the Green Mountains of 
                        Vermont
                     to the pine-hills of 
                        Alabama
                    .1 Although of comparatively low elevation, the
                    Appalachians interposed 
                  
                     * The author, a professor in the
                            department of history and government at St. Lawrence University, Canton, 
                                New York
                            , is preparing a book-length study of the St. Lawrence
                            Waterway. He wishes to acknowledge his indebtedness to the Social
                            Science Research Council, the American Philosophical Society, St.
                            Lawrence University, and the Institute for Advanced Study, 
                                Princeton
                            , 
                                New Jersey
                            , for monetary and other types of assistance.
                  
                     1 Caroline E. Macgill et al., History
                                of Transportation in the 
                                    United States
                                 before 1860 (
                                Washington
                            , 1917), 4.
               
                     a formidable barrier to the development of
                    transportation into the interior.
            The forests and the exceedingly dense undergrowth which covered the mountains
                    increased the difficulty of passage, while the rivers of the eastern slope,
                    since they were not navigable far back from the coast, afforded no ready access
                    to the interior. These rivers, however, when followed to their headwaters,
                    revealed occasional passes which were early discovered and used by explorers,
                    fur traders, military expeditions, and would-be settlers. The easiest pathway to
                    the West was by way of the Hudson and Mohawk rivers, which passed over a region
                    gradually rising from near sea level to a maximum of some 578 feet.2 In 
                        Pennsylvania
                     the chief route to the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley followed the West Branch of the Susquehanna. Farther south
                    was another route by the Juniata to a tributary of the Allegheny. Virginians
                    went up the valley of the Potomac and by a short portage to the Youghiogheny.
                    Other routes lay up the James River and down the Great Valley to the Greenbrier
                    and Kanawha, or by 
                        Cumberland Gap
                     into 
                        Kentucky
                    , where the famous Warrior's Path led to the 
                        Ohio
                    .
            The first prominent American to give serious attention to the problem of
                    penetrating this mountain range and of linking the East with the West was George
                    Washington, farsighted and enterprising citizen of 
                        Virginia
                    . First as a surveyor and as a member of the 
                        Ohio
                     Company, organized in 1749 to promote colonization in the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley, then as an officer during the French and Indian War, and
                    later as an astute businessman interested in finding buyers for his extensive
                    western lands, Washington came to feel keenly the need for improved
                    transportation facilities between the eastern states and the settlements west of
                    the Appalachians.3 More important still, he indicated an
                    eagerness to lend his support to any project calculated to bring about the
                    desired improvement. Thus in 1770 he suggested that a scheme projected by
                    certain citizens of 
                        Maryland
                     to clear the channel 
                  
                     2 Albert L. Kohlmeier, The Old
                                Northwest … (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana. 1938), 6.
                  
                     3 Washington to Thomas Lee, August, 1754, in John
                            C. Fitzpatrick (ed.), The Writings of George
                            Washington (39 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1931), I, 100–101; Washington to Thomas
                            Johnson, 1762, ibid., II, 391; House
                                Reports of the Committees, 19th Cong., 1st Sess., No 228, pp.
                            1–2; Corra Bacon-Foster, Early Chapters in the
                                Development of the Patomao Route to the West (
                                Washington
                            , 1912), 13–21.
               
                     of the lower reaches of the Potomac be
                    "recommended to Publick Notice upon a more enlarged Plan":
                    that it make provision for an open channel to Fort Cumberland, with connection
                    by portage to the headwaters of the 
                        Ohio
                    . Such a waterway, he held, not only would solve many of the local
                    transportation problems of 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Maryland
                     but would also become "the Channel of conveyance of the
                    extensive and valuable trade of a rising Empire."4
            
            When it became evident that the 
                        Maryland
                    -sponsored project would not be undertaken, Washington attempted to
                    persuade the 
                        Virginia
                     House of Burgesses to appropriate funds for opening a public
                    highway between the East and the West.5 Failing in this
                    endeavor, he introduced a bill to empower individuals to subscribe to the
                    enterprise and to effect the improvement at their own expense. Even with this
                    modification, the project was strongly opposed, particularly by spokesmen of the
                    central portion of the colony. To allay the hostility of this populous region,
                    an amendment providing for the improvement of navigation of the James River was
                    added to the bill. So amended, the bill was enacted early in 1772.6 Implementation of the act, however, was dependent upon the enactment
                    of a similar law by 
                        Maryland
                    . Governor Thomas Johnson exerted himself to obtain such a law but
                    failed largely because of the opposition of the merchants of 
                        Baltimore
                     who feared that improving the Potomac would divert traffic from
                    their market to 
                        Georgetown
                    .7 Before this problem could be resolved, the
                    Revolution started and all plans for undertaking the improvement were
                    indefinitely postponed.
            At the end of the war Washington turned with renewed eagerness to the promotion
                    of his favorite project. In numerous conferences and letters with prominent men
                    of his day the newly-retired commander-in-chief discussed various aspects of the
                    problem of providing improved east-west 
                  
                     4Washington to Thomas Johnson, July 20, 1770, Writings of Washington, III, 20.
                  
                     5 Washington to Thomas Jefferson, March 29, 1784,
                                ibid., XXVII, 374; John Pickell, A
                                New Chapter in the Early Life of Washington (
                                New York
                            , 1856), 29.
                  
                     6 William W. Hening, The Statutes at
                                Large … of all the Laws of 
                                    Virginia
                                
                      (13 vols., 
                                Richmond
                            , 
                                Virginia
                            , 1821), VIII, 573; Washington to Jonathan Boucher, May 4,
                            1772, Writings of Washington, III, 81.
                  
                     7 Washington to Jefferson, March 29, 1784, Writings of Washington, XXVII,
                        373–377.
               
                     transportation. The character and substance
                    of these discussions may be judged from an examination of letters exchanged
                    between Jefferson and Washington in March, 1784.
            This was the moment, Jefferson wrote, for uniting the commerce of the
                    Youghiogheny and Cheat rivers with that of the Potomac. All the world was
                    "becoming commercial." Were it practicable to keep the new
                    American empire separated from other countries, "we might indulge
                    ourselves in speculating whether commerce contributes to the happiness of
                    mankind. But we cannot separate ourselves from them. … We must then
                    in our own defence endeavor to share as large a portion as we can of this modern
                    source of wealth and power." The Potomac, the Hudson, and the 
                        Mississippi
                     were all possible routes, but the 
                        Ohio
                    -Potomac, because it was the most direct, was potentially the best
                    of the three. But if its natural advantages were to be fully realized, the
                    channels of its rivers would have to be cleared and canals would have to be
                    provided around the falls and rapids. He had been urging the 
                        Virginia
                     legislature to create a special fund to finance these needed
                    improvements, but he had met with the objection "that public
                    undertakings are carlessly [sic] managed and much money spent to little
                    purpose." If Washington would be willing to direct the state's
                    navigation improvement activities, Jefferson wrote, this objection would be
                    removed. But he did not wish to over-persuade. If the superintendence of the
                    work would too much disturb his friend's "retirement and
                    repose" he would say no more.8
            
            Washington replied that he agreed with Jefferson on the advantages of the 
                        Ohio
                    -Potomac communication "over all
                    others." Furthermore, he was "satisfied that not a moment
                    ought to be lost in recommencing this business." As soon as the British
                    had surrendered the posts of Oswego and Niagara, "the Yorkers"
                    would lose no time in improving the Hudson-Mohawk route. It behooved 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Maryland
                     to be equally energetic. Certainly it was in the interest of both
                    colonies "to remove obstructions, and to invite the trade of the
                    Western territory" into the channels of the 
                        Ohio
                    -Potomac route. But Washington had serious misgivings as to whether
                    the project could be carried out as a public enterprise. 
                  
                     8 Jefferson to 
                                Washington
                            , March 15, 1784, in Julian P. Boyd (ed.), The
                                Papers of Thomas Jefferson (12 vols., 
                                Princeton
                            , 1953), VII, 25–27.
               
                     Aside from the jealousies which prevailed
                    and the difficulty of apportioning funds between the two colonies, there was
                    "the impracticability of bringing the great, and truly wise policy of
                    the measure" to the view of the people, and "the difficulty of
                    drawing money from them, for such a purpose." Nevertheless, he was
                    convinced that, considering "the immense advantages which this Country
                    would derive from this measure," no effort should be spared to launch
                    the enterprise. Concerning the proposal that he personally direct a state
                    program of internal improvements, Washington stated in his letter that his
                    decision would depend on a number of factors, including the size and nature of
                    the program and whether or not acceptance of the position would interfere with
                    any other plan he had in contemplation.9
            
            Some six months after this exchange of views Washington made an extensive tour of
                    the headwaters of the 
                        Ohio
                    , talking with settlers and other persons acquainted with the
                    transportation facilities between the East and the West and preparing careful
                    maps and notes. Following his return, he sent off to Benjamin Harrison, Governor
                    of 
                        Virginia
                    , a letter that is generally regarded as a milestone in the
                    development of American policy concerning transportation improvements.10 In addition to outlining a plan for the co-operative
                    development of the Potomac-
                        Ohio
                     route by 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Maryland
                    , through the medium of either public or private agencies,
                    Washington developed at some length certain arguments stressing the need for
                    improved east-west transportation, to which he had previously given only passing
                    attention.
            Improved transportation, 
                        Washington
                     averred, would stimulate western agricultural and industrial
                    production. In the absence of adequate transportation facilities, the
                    backwoodsmen had no incitement to labor. "But smooth the road once, and
                    make easy the way for them, and then see what an influx of articles will be
                    poured upon us; how 
                  
                     9 Washington to Jefferson, March 29, 1784, Writings of 
                                    Washington
                                
                     , XXVII, 373–377.
                  
                     10 For the letter, dated October 10, 1784, see Writings of 
                                    Washington
                                
                     , XXVII, 471–480. For commentaries, see
                            Pickell, A New Chapter in the Early Life of 
                                    Washington
                                
                     , 37–38; Herbert B. Adams, "
                                Washington
                            's Interest in the Potomac Company," Johns Hopkins University Studies in Historical and
                                Political Science, III, No. 1, 84–89; House Reports of the Committees, 19th Cong., 1st Sess., No.
                            228, pp. 2–4.
               
                     amazingly our exports will be increased by
                    them, and how amply we shall be compensated for any trouble and expense we may
                    encounter to effect it." More important still, better transportation
                    would serve as a potent force in strengthening the bonds of union between the
                    East and the West. The flanks and rear of the 
                        United States
                     were the possessions of 
                        Spain
                     and 
                        England
                    . The western states stood, as it were, on a pivot. The touch of a
                    feather might turn them any direction. Unless shorter and easier channels were
                    opened to the Atlantic ports, the western settlers were likely to ship their
                    surplus products down the 
                        Mississippi
                     or out the St. Lawrence. What the political consequences would be
                    needed not the gift of prophecy. The only real safeguard was to bind the
                    westerners to the East by "the cement of interest," the strong
                    chains of commerce.11
            
            In advancing these broad, national considerations, 
                        Washington
                    , it is reasonable to assume, was not unmindful of the benefits that
                    he personally—as the owner of large tracts of land in the West and as
                    a businessman interested in the fur trade—would derive from the
                    opening of improved communication. Nor was he losing sight of the advantages
                    that would accrue to his native state. In fact, in his letter to Harrison he
                    refers to 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     as "rival States" interested in developing their
                    own transportation connections with the West and warns that if 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Maryland
                     are to obtain their proper share of the western commerce they dare
                    not delay the development of the 
                        Ohio
                    -Potomac route. Nevertheless, his emphasis on the political factors
                    indicates that he was thinking not primarily as a Virginian but rather as a
                    citizen of the new confederation of states.12
            
            In other letters of 1784 Washington presented the viewpoint that national
                    considerations might justify the opening of several east-west routes.
                    "I am not for discouraging the exertion of any State
                    to draw the commerce of the Western Country to its sea ports," he wrote
                    to George Plater of 
                        Maryland
                    . "The more communications are opened to it, the closer we
                    bind that rising world (for indeed it may be so called) to our interests, and
                    the greater strength shall we acquire by 
                  
                     11
                            Writings of Washington, XXVII, 475–476.
                  
                     12 Pickell, A New Chapter in the
                                Early Life of Washington, 34; House Reports of the
                                Committees, 19th Cong., 1st Sess., No. 228, p. 2.
               
                     it."13 To
                    prevent the trade of the Western territory from settling in the hands either of
                    the Spainards or of the British, it was most important, Washington insisted in a
                    letter to Jacob Read of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , that the West be afforded adequate trade outlets through American
                    territory. If connections were established between the Atlantic Coast and the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley and other connections were developed between the 
                        Ohio
                     River and Lake Erie, the beneficial results would exceed the
                    highest expectations. "We shall not only draw the produce of the
                    western Settlers, but the Fur and peltry trade of the lakes also, to our Ports
                    … to the amazing encrease of our Exports, while we bind those people
                    to us by a chain which never can be broken."14
            
            The letter to Harrison was brought before the legislature of 
                        Virginia
                    , which in turn instructed the governor to send a delegation for
                    discussions with the 
                        Maryland
                     officials. This was promptly done, and the outcome was a report
                    recommending the creation, by concurrent action of the 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Maryland
                     legislatures, of a private company to develop the route recommended
                    by Washington.15 Without delay the legislatures accepted the
                    recommendations of the commissioners and enacted legislation authorizing the
                    formation of the Potomac Company to build such canals and perform such other
                    works as were deemed necessary for "opening, improving and
                    extending" the navigation of the Potomac above tidewater to the Cheat
                    or Monongahela, whichever the commissioners might find more convenient and
                    beneficial to the western settlers.16 In approximately four
                    months sufficient funds had been pledged to enable the sponsors of the project
                    to hold an organizational meeting,17 at which time
                    Washington was selected president. Shortly thereafter, laborers were recruited
                    and actual construction was started. But the company's good luck was
                    not to continue. First the workers proved unruly; then high water 
                  
                     13 Letter dated October 25, 1784, Writings of Washington, XXVII, 483.
                  
                     14 November 3, 1784, ibid.,
                            488–489.
                  
                     15 For the report, see Pickell, A New
                                Chapter in the Early Life of Washington, 44–46.
                  
                     16 Printed in ibid.,
                            47–62.
                  
                     17 Of the total capital that had been raised by
                            1808, $97,778 was contributed by 
                                Maryland
                            ; $31,111 by 
                                Virginia
                            ; and the remainder by private individuals. See American State Papers, Miscellaneous (Washington, 1834), I,
                            811.
               
                     impeded construction and unforeseen
                    engineering difficulties developed; finally, and most serious of all, public
                    interest in the project waned and some of the subscribers refused to pay their
                        assessments.18 Work on a limited scale was continued for
                    years but was finally abandoned altogether. The undertaking had proved too
                    formidable for the meager financial resources of the company.
            The Potomac enterprise did, however, achieve the desirable result of interesting
                    men of affairs in other states in the problem of transportation improvement.
                    Thus the years 1791–1798 saw the formation of several private
                    companies to develop transportation connections between east and west. Among the
                    more important of these were: the Society for Promoting the Improvement of Roads
                    and Inland Navigation, created by an act of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     legislature in 1791 to carry out a plan of development involving
                    the improvement of water and land routes by way of the 
                        Delaware
                     River to Lake 
                        Ontario
                     and Lake Otsego, and of eight routes by the Susquehanna drainage,
                    north, northwest, and west;19 the Western Inland Lock
                    Navigation Company, chartered by 
                        New York
                     in 1792 to develop an all-water transportation route from Lake 
                        Ontario
                     to the Hudson River by way of the Mohawk Valley;20 and the Niagara Canal Company, created by the 
                        New York
                     legislature in 1798 to construct a canal to link Lakes Erie and 
                        Ontario
                    .21
            
            Although both the Society for Promoting the Improvement of Roads and Inland
                    Navigation and the Western Lock Company received some state financial
                        assistance,22 each succeeded in building only a few
                    sections of its proposed canal. The other company accomplished nothing.23 These unhappy experiences—which with minor
                    variations were 
                  
                     18 See Pickell, A New Chapter in the
                                Early Life of Washington, 76–118; Bacon-Foster, Early Chapters in the Development of the Patomac Route to
                                the West, 71–135.
                  
                     19
                            American State Papers, Miscellaneous, I,
                            834–860.
                  
                     20
                            Laws of the State of 
                                    New York
                                 … 1789–1796 (
                                Albany
                            , 1887), III, chap. 40.
                  
                     21
                            Laws of the State of 
                                    New York
                                
                      (
                                Albany
                            , 1802), II, 328.
                  
                     22
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                             made generous contributions to the various canal companies
                            sponsored by the Society. See American State Papers,
                                Miscellaneous I, 731, 736, 829, 843–860. 
                                New York
                            , in addition to purchasing stock to the value of
                            $92,000 in the Western Stock Company, made an outright gift
                            of $12,500. See Archer B. Hulbert, The Great
                                American Canals (
                                Cleveland
                            , 1904), II, 42; this is Vol. XIV of the Historic Highways of America series.
                  
                     23
                            American State Papers, Miscellaneous, I, 735.
               
                     the experiences of dozens of other
                    construction concerns of the day24—caused many
                    Americans to conclude that private companies had neither the money nor the
                    engineering skill needed to carry out major transportation projects. At the same
                    time, the high tolls and the arbitrary actions of some of the turnpike companies
                    aroused so much popular resentment that increasing numbers of public spirited
                    citizens began wondering whether the construction and control of roads and
                    canals were not matters of too much public interest to be left largely to
                    private enterprise.25 The cumulative result was the
                    gradually increasing and widespread demand for a larger measure of governmental
                    participation in the construction and maintenance of essential transportation
                    facilities.
            The first appeal was to the states. But as the history of the Potomac enterprise
                    had conclusively demonstrated, the states were not eager to assume the
                        responsibility.26 They were willing to make grants to
                    help finance important improvements, but they preferred that the bother and the
                    principal expense of construction should rest with private enterprise. Their
                    supply of ready capital was limited. Their credit standing was none too high,
                    some of them having repudiated debts contracted in the revolutionary era. To
                    attempt to raise money by increasing taxes was considered politically
                    inexpedient. Action by the states was made still more difficult by the bitter
                    sectional conflicts within the individual states. The divisions in 
                        Maryland
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     have already been noted. Those of 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     were no less notorious.27 It was the view of
                    thoughtful persons of the day that a policy of state ownership would increase
                    the sectional jealousies and conflicts.28
            
            
               
                  24
                        Ibid., 725–736, 753, 764–765.
               
                  25 See, for example, John B. McMaster, A History of the People of the 
                                United States
                            
                   (8 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1885), II, 554–556. But see also Carter Goodrich,
                        "National Planning of Internal Improvements," Political Science Quarterly, LXIII (1948), 41–43.
               
                  26 See Louis Hartz, Economic Policy and
                            Democratic Thought: 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , 1776–1860 (
                            Cambridge
                        , 1948), 129–130, for a discussion of the reluctance
                        of the government of 
                            Pennsylvania
                         to undertake that state's canal construction program.
               
                  27 The start of construction of a waterway across 
                            New York
                         State was long delayed by a disagreement between those who
                        believed the western terminus should be Lake Erie and those who favored Lake 
                            Ontario
                        . See Laws of the State of 
                                New York
                            
                  , 29–32, 39–41, 50–53.
                        For an able discussion of sectional conflicts within 
                            Pennsylvania
                         see Hartz, Economic Policy and Democratic
                        Thought, 9–14.
               
                  28 See Hartz, Economic Policy and
                            Democratic Thought, 130.
            
            
            The remaining alternative was federal construction. For several reasons the
                    federal government seemed the logical entity to undertake any needed
                    improvements. It had competent army engineers; it had extensive sources of
                    revenue; and it was in a better position than either the states or private
                    companies to formulate and carry into effect an integrated system of internal
                    improvements. But its qualifications were more apparent than real. The
                    government had assumed a tremendous burden of debt; political and sectional
                    strife were rife; and its leaders had yet to prove their ability to hold
                    together the newly-created Union. Most important of all, the constitutional
                    authority of the federal government to construct and maintain roads and canals
                    was still widely challenged. Thus everything considered, the likelihood that the
                    government at 
                        Washington
                     would accept responsibility for promoting and financing internal
                    improvements did not seem particularly bright.
            For a time, that is to say until near the close of the nineteenth century, the
                    settlers of the West indicated very little interest in the various schemes being
                    attempted or proposed for linking the East with the West. Of course, they
                    favored the improvement of transportation; but they did not view the matter as
                    of urgent importance. Their numbers were few; their wants were insignificant;
                    their surplus produce could generally be disposed of by floating it down the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     rivers to markets at 
                        New Orleans
                    .29 By the close of the first decade of the
                    nineteenth century, however, the situation had radically changed. From a
                    population of 387,183 in 1800 the states and territories of the West had grown
                    by 1810 to 1,075,398. During the same period western 
                        New York
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and 
                        Virginia
                     had registered a comparable population increase.30 As the lands of the West lost some of their frontier characteristics,
                    the settlers not only began to demand more and a greater variety of manufactured
                    goods but also began producing a larger volume of 
                  
                     29 On the use of the 
                                Mississippi
                             route by the early settlers of the 
                                Ohio
                             Valley, see Guy S. Callender, "The Early
                            Transportation and Banking Enterprises of the States in Relation to the
                            Growth of Corporations," Quarterly Journal of
                                Economics, XVII (1903), 120–121; E. L. Bogart, Internal Improvements and State Debt in 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1924), 6–7.
                  
                     30 See Callender, "The Early
                            Transportation and Banking Enterprises of the States,"
                            115–116.
               
                     goods for the export market.31 The inevitable result was the production of more goods than could
                    profitably be disposed of and a growing dissatisfaction with the existing
                    transportation facilities. The 
                        New Orleans
                     market was too small to take the quantity of goods now being
                    shipped down the 
                        Mississippi
                    . To store the produce in the warehouses at 
                        New Orleans
                     to await shipment to the Atlantic Seaboard or to foreign ports was
                    to run the risk of spoilage. Furthermore, the 
                        Ohio
                    -
                        Mississippi
                     route was of little use to the settlers in the western areas of 
                        New York
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , 
                        Maryland
                    , and 
                        Virginia
                    , nor to the residents of northern 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana. Their goods had to go by other waterways or else move
                    entirely by land, over turnpikes or primitive trails. Regardless of the route
                    utilized, transportation costs were excessive. To haul a ton of freight from 
                        New York
                     City to Buffalo cost about $100; to move a ton from 
                        Philadelphia
                     to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , an all-land route, cost $125; for the country as a
                    whole the average cost of shipping freight was $10 per ton per 100
                        miles.32 Articles which could not stand these rates were
                    shut from market, and among these were some of the staple products of the
                    western farmers, such as grain and flour, which could not bear transportation
                    more than 150 miles.33
            
            As Peter B. Porter, representative of western 
                        New York
                     observed, "the want of a market" had now become
                    the major problem of the western inhabitants. Nowhere could "the great
                    staple articles for the use of civilized life be produced in greater abundance
                    or with greater ease. And yet, as respects most of the luxuries and many of the
                    conveniences of 
                  
                     31
                            
                                England
                            's demand for foodstuffs during the Napoleonic wars
                            gave an extra impetus to the production of wheat in western 
                                New York
                            , western 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , and in the remote regions along the 
                                Ohio
                             and the shores of Lake Erie. Macgill, History
                                of Transportation in the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 132.
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., 77–88; McMaster, A
                                History of the People of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , III, 463–464. The cost of
                            transportation from Buffalo to 
                                New York
                             prior to 1825, "equalled nearly three times the market value of wheat in 
                                New York
                            ; six times the value of corn; twelve times the value of oats; and far exceeded the
                            value of most kinds of cured provisions." Quoted by G. S.
                            Callender, Selections from the Economic History of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1765–1860 (
                                New York
                            , 1909), 327.
                  
                     33 As Turner has remarked, it was the high cost of
                            transportation that helps to explain the attention which the interior
                            first gave to making whiskey and raising livestock. The whiskey carried
                            the crop in a small bulk with a high value, while the livestock could
                            walk to market. Frederick Jackson Turner, Rise of the New
                                West (
                                New York
                            , 1906), 101. See also Leland D. Baldwin, Whiskey Rebels: the Story of a Frontier Uprising (
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1939).
               
                     life, the people are poor. They have no
                    vent for their produce at home; because, being all agriculturists, they produce
                    alike the same articles with the same facility; and such is the present
                    difficulty and expense of transporting their produce to an Atlantic port, that
                    little benefits are realized from that quarter. … Such is the
                    fertility of their lands, that one half of their time spent in labor is
                    sufficient to produce every article, which their farms are capable of yielding
                    in sufficient quantities, for their own consumption, and there is nothing to
                    incite them to produce more."34
            
            Since markets were not to be had at home, increasing numbers of farmers in the
                    states bordering on 
                        Canada
                     turned to Quebec and Montreal for a market. For these farmers the
                    St. Lawrence River, even with its rapids and time-consuming portages, offered
                    the cheapest available transportation. Compared with the $100 per ton
                    cost of shipping goods from Buffalo to 
                        Albany
                    , produce could be moved from Buffalo to Montreal for only
                    $30 and that, too, more speedily than by the all-American route.
                    Under the circumstances, it is not surprising that, in spite of the half-hearted
                    efforts of the government at 
                        Washington
                     to end such traffic, every year hundreds of thousands of
                    dollars' worth of lumber, grain, flour, and potash were shipped down
                    the St. Lawrence. By 1812 "one half of the fur trade of the Northwest,
                    all the produce of 
                        Vermont
                     as far south as 
                        Middlebury
                    , and of every county of northern 
                        New York
                     from Essex and Clinton on Lake Champlain to Niagara on the Niagara
                    River, was gathered at Montreal."35 The superiority
                    of the St. Lawrence route, combined with the preferences granted by British
                    trade regulations, was more powerful than all the laws and regulations emanating
                    from 
                        Washington
                    .
            The practice, however, was potentially perilous. One danger was that the western
                    inhabitants would begin by shipping their produce out the St. Lawrence and then
                    decide to throw in their political lot with the country controlling the mouth of
                    their water route. Another was that the westerners—because of
                    annoyance or exasperation at the failure of Congress to provide for their
                    transportation needs—would 
                  
                     34
                            Annals of Congress, 11th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 1388.
                  
                     35 McMaster, History of the People of
                                the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , III, 464–465. See also Harold A. Innis
                            and A. R. M. Lower, Select Documents in Canadian Economic
                                History 1783-1885 (
                                Toronto
                            , 1933), 224–229; Annals of
                            Congress, 14th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 909.
               
                     decide to secede from the Union and
                    establish an independent nation. That these dangers were very real was revealed
                    in Aaron Burr's success in playing upon western discontentment,36 northeastern 
                        New York
                    's defiance of the American Embargo Act of 1807,37 and 
                        Vermont
                    's forty-year commercial and political flirtation with
                    Great Britain.38 In truth, the time had come when the
                    geographical sections of the country would have to be united, if they were to be
                    united at all, "by something stronger than the
                        Constitution."39 If the government at 
                        Washington
                     and the country as a whole continued to ignore the legitimate
                    demands of the frontier settlers for an outlet to the Atlantic, there was, as
                    Porter reminded the House, "great reason to fear that our Western
                    brethren may soon accost us in a tone higher than that of the Constitution
                        itself."40 What might happen, he warned, could
                    be deduced from the recent disturbances in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Massachusetts
                    . If the affections of the western people were to be attached to the
                    Union, they would have to be attached by their own interests.
            Fortunately, by the early 1800's the federal government was in a much
                    more favorable position to undertake transportation improvements than it had
                    been a decade earlier. It had acquired greater strength and stability; it was
                    rapidly liquidating the national debt; and for some time the treasury ledger had
                    shown an annual surplus. Private interests—which at a later date were
                    oftentimes opposed to federal planning or control of development
                    projects—did not wish at this time to monopolize the construction
                    field but eagerly sought governmental appropriations and/or governmental
                    subscriptions to the stock of their companies.41 The party
                    in power, the Republican, had gained new political strength through the
                    admission of 
                        Vermont
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                    , and 
                        Ohio
                     into the Union. More important still, the earlier widespread
                    opposition on constitutional grounds to federal sponsorship 
                  
                     36 Henry Adams, History of the 
                                    United States
                                 of America (9 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1931), III, chaps. 10–14; Thomas P. Abernethy,
                                The Burr Conspiracy (
                                New York
                            , 1954).
                  
                     37 McMaster, History of the People of
                                the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , III, 296–297, 304–305.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., 294; Donald G. Creighton, The
                                Commercial Empire of the St. Lawrence (
                                Toronto
                            , 1937), 103–104.
                  
                     39 McMaster, History of the People of
                                the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , III, 465.
                  
                     40
                            Annals of Congress, 11th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 1400.
                  
                     41 Goodrich, "National Planning of
                            Internal Improvements," 39.
               
                     of internal improvements appeared to be
                    subsiding, and the federal authorities, possibly as a consequence, seemed more
                    inclined to sponsor transportation-development programs.
            One of the first indications of this new federal concern with internal
                    improvements was the inclusion in the 
                        Ohio
                     Enabling Act of 1802 of a provision obligating Congress to set
                    aside 5 per cent of the proceeds of the public lands sold within that state for
                    the construction of roads.42 Some of the roads were to be in
                    the state; others were to join the 
                        Ohio
                     River with navigable waters emptying into the Atlantic. As 3 per
                    cent was speedily appropriated for roadmaking within the state,43 only 2 per cent was left to be expended on highways outside the state.
                    Yet small as the latter percentage was, it had, by December 1805, produced
                        $12,600.44 On the recommendation of a Senate
                        committee,45 Congress voted in 1806 to apply this money
                    towards the construction of a turnpike from Cumberland, on the 
                        Maryland
                     side of the Potomac, to a point near Wheeling, on the 
                        Virginia
                     side of the 
                        Ohio
                    .46 Because sectionalism and politics caused
                    delay in the selection of a route, contracts were not awarded until 1811 and the
                    section of the road to Wheeling was not opened to traffic until 1817.47 Nevertheless, by creating the 5 per cent fund and by
                    voting appropriations for the National Turnpike, Congress had taken steps that
                    served as precedents for the improvement of waterways, as well as for the
                    construction of state roads and national turnpikes.48
            
            
               
                  42
                        
                     
                                United States
                             Statutes at Large, II, 173.
               
                  43 Act of March 3, 1803, ibid., 226.
               
                  44 McMaster, History of the People of the 
                                United States
                            
                  , III, 469. See also Bogart, Internal
                            Improvements in 
                                Ohio
                            
                  , 9.
               
                  45 For the committee report, dated December 19, 1805,
                        see Annals of Congress, 9th Cong., 1st Sess., pp.
                        22–26.
               
                  46
                        
                     
                                United States
                             Statutes at Large, II, 357–359. An
                        additional $30,000 was appropriated for beginning the work.
               
                  47 On the building of the road see Archer B. Hulbert,
                            The Cumberland Road (
                            Cleveland
                        , 1904); this is vol. X of the Historic Highways of
                            America series; R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest,
                            Pioneer Period, 1815–1840 (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1950), I, 446–449; John D. Barnhart and Donald F.
                        Carmony, Indiana From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth
                        (4 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1954), I, 288–290. Between 1817 and 1838 the road
                        was pushed across 
                            Ohio
                         and Indiana to Vandalia, 
                            Illinois
                        , but the federal government relinquished each section, upon its
                        completion, to the state within which it lay.
               
                  48 For a discussion of the application of the 5 per
                        cent plan to road construction in Indiana, see Logan Esarey, Internal Improvements in Early Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1912), 52–53.
            
            
            Another significant federal move was the introduction in the Senate, February 23,
                    1807, of a motion by John Quincy Adams calling on the President to authorize the
                    Secretary of the Treasury to prepare and report a plan for a general system of
                    internal improvements.49 Adams, a great admirer of George 
                        Washington
                    , was strongly of the opinion that highways were essential to the
                    development and strengthening of the nation, and that such improvements should
                    be built by public agencies, since private construction would result in the
                    subordination of the common welfare to private profit.50 His
                    motion was defeated by a vote of 16 to 12.51 A few days
                    later, however, Thomas Worthington, of 
                        Ohio
                    , secured the passage of a resolution similar to that of Adams by
                    the impressive vote of 22 to 3.52
            
            In December of the preceding year, President Jefferson had suggested that the
                    surpluses of the treasury be applied "to the great purposes of the
                    public education, roads, rivers, canals, and such other objects of public
                    improvement as it may be thought proper to add to the constitutional enumeration
                    of Federal powers."53 Accordingly, he now lost no
                    time in instructing Secretary Albert Gallatin to carry out the Senate
                    recommendation. The result was the justly famed report of April 4, 1808.54
            
            This report involved both careful thought and the collection of a vast amount of
                    data from local sources. It argued that, in view of the relative scarcity of
                    capital and "the extent of territory compared to the
                    population," the federal government was the proper agency to carry out
                    the needed improvements. It stressed the advantages of a complete and carefully
                    planned system, in contrast to a partial and helter-skelter development. No
                    single road or canal would attain its maximum usefulness unless it were fitted
                    into a framework designed to develop the nation as a whole. 
                  
                     49
                            Annals of Congress, 10th Cong., 1st Sess., pp.
                            77–78.
                  
                     50 Charles F. Adams (ed.), Memoirs of
                                John Quincy Adams (12 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                             , 1876), VIII, 444.
                  
                     51
                            Memoirs of John Quincy Adams, I, 460.
                  
                     52
                            Annals of Congress, 9th Cong., 2d Sess., pp.
                            77–78, 95, 97. In explanation of Worthington's
                            greater success, Henry Adams points out that the 
                                Ohio
                             Senator was "one of Mr. Gallatin's
                            closest friends." The Life of Albert Gallatin (
                                New York
                            , 1879, reprinted 1943), 350.
                  
                     53 Sixth Annual Message, December 2, 1806, in
                            James D. Richardson (ed.), A Compilation of the Messages
                                and Papers of the Presidents 1789–1897 (10 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1896–1899), I (1896), 409.
                  
                     54
                            American State Papers, Miscellaneous, I,
                            724–921.
               
                     It was likewise important to carry out
                    improvements that would make possible rapid concentration of the military forces
                    of the country at any given point.
            The two main objectives, Gallatin averred, were: (1) to connect the states along
                    a north-south axis, and (2) to bring the settlers beyond the mountains into easy
                    communication with the East. The first objective could be achieved by cutting
                    canals across Cape Cod, 
                        New Jersey
                    , 
                        Delaware
                    , and the marshes between the Chesapeake and Albermarle Sound, and
                    by constructing a turnpike from 
                        Maine
                     to 
                        Georgia
                    . The problem of east-west connections involved the use of rivers as
                    well as canals and roads. Four great rivers flowing into the Atlantic should be
                    improved to the head of feasible navigation and then joined by four great roads
                    over the mountains with four other rivers of the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley: the Susquehanna to the Allegheny, the Potomac to the
                    Monongahela, the James with the Kanawha, and the Santee or the Savannah with the 
                        Tennessee
                    . There should also be a canal around the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                     and good roads from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to 
                        Detroit
                    , to 
                        St. Louis
                    , and to 
                        New Orleans
                    . Northward and northwestward the Hudson should be joined with Lake
                    Champlain, and the Mohawk with Lake 
                        Ontario
                    . A canal should be dug around Niagara to enable sloops to pass from
                    Lake 
                        Ontario
                     to Lake 
                        Michigan
                    .
            The cost of the above improvements, Gallatin estimated, would not exceed
                    $16,000,000. But the Secretary suggested—in a sentence
                    that strikingly attested to the strength of the local and sectional conflicts of
                    the day—that considerations of "policy no less than
                    justice" required the allocation of an extra $3,400,000 for
                    the financing of "local improvements" in states which would
                    not benefit directly from the suggested major improvements. To carry out the
                    entire program, Congress was to pledge $2,000,000 of the annual
                    surplus for ten years in advance; and the twenty millions thus spent might be
                    partly or wholly replaced by selling to private corporations the canals and
                    turnpikes as they should become productive; or the public money might at the
                    outset be loaned to private corporations for purposes of construction.
            The report was read April 6, 1808. A time less propitious could not have been
                    chosen. The embargo had been in effect three months. Trade and commerce were in
                    decline, the whole frontier was in commotion, President Jefferson  was on the point of declaring the people of the
                    region around Lake Champlain to be in a state of insurrection, and the treasury
                    surplus was fast melting away. Under these circumstances, the Senate did no more
                    than order that twelve hundred copies of the report be printed and that six be
                    given to each member of Congress.55
            
            Certain congressmen, however, were not willing to let the matter drop. In
                    January, 1810, Senator John Pope, of 
                        Kentucky
                    , introduced a bill to authorize a system of internal improvements
                    substantially the same as that recommended by Gallatin.56
                    But instead of federal construction and direct appropriations, the measure
                    called for federal subscription to the stock of state-chartered corporations and
                    for government borrowing on the security of the public lands. When no action was
                    taken on this particular bill, Porter presented to the House of Representatives,
                    February 8, 1810, a resolution to appoint a committee to examine the expediency
                    of appropriating public lands for "the opening and constructing such
                    roads and canals as may be most conducive to the general interests of the
                        Union."57 The suggestion was accepted and a
                    committee of twenty, with Porter as chairman, was forthwith appointed. Later the
                    same month the committee recommended that the government should subscribe for
                    one-half of the stock of any corporation which had been, or which should be,
                    chartered to carry on the works suggested by Gallatin's report.58 Congress, however, was not prepared to do more, and the
                    session ended without action. The same was true of the session that followed. By
                    the summer of 1812 the country was at war and all federal internal improvement
                    projects not of an urgent nature were indefinitely postponed.
            But many Americans—particularly the War Hawks of the
                    West—expected the war itself to provide at least a partial solution
                    to the east-west transportation problem. This it was expected to do by bringing
                    about the speedy defeat of Britain, the annexation of 
                        Canada
                    , and the opening of the St. Lawrence to the unrestricted navigation
                    of American 
                  
                     55
                            Annals of Congress, 10th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 332.
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., 11th Cong., 1st Sess., p. 522.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., 1401.
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., 1443.
               
                     ships.59 Of course,
                    these high expectations were not realized. In fact, it was only a favorable
                    combination of circumstances that enabled the new republic to emerge from the
                    war without the loss of territory or the limited privilege it enjoyed in the use
                    of the St. Lawrence River.
            The war did do one thing, however, and that was to demonstrate in an emphatic
                    manner the urgent need for improved east-west transportation facilities. It was
                    found, for example, that a piece of ordnance worth $400 at the
                    foundry had cost $2,000 when delivered on the frontier and that flour
                    had cost $100 per barrel and oats $60 per bushel.60 Army regulations allowed officers "two dollars
                    per 100 pounds per 100 miles" for the transportation of their
                        baggage.61 The almost universal opinion was that had
                    improved roads and canals been in existence during the war the armed forces
                    would not only have operated more effectively but millions of dollars would have
                    been saved on transportation costs.62 It was further agreed
                    that the absence of satisfactory roads was one of the reasons that the war had
                    not been more loyally supported by some of the eastern states.63 Thus the absence of a ready American market for their surplus produce
                    had afforded disgruntled farmers of 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Vermont
                     a plausible excuse for shipping large quantities of beef, wheat,
                    and other supplies to the British forces in 
                        Canada
                    .64
            
            There were still other ways in which the war had contributed to the growth of a
                    public demand for improved transportation. It disclosed the great importance of
                    the West. New lands taken from the Indians became available 
                  
                     59 See the numerous references cited by Julius W.
                            Pratt, Expansionists of 1812 (
                                New York
                            , 1925), 12, 34, 42–43, 52, 142,
                            146–147. See also D. R. Anderson, "The Insurgents of
                            1811," in Annual Report of the American Historical
                                Association for the Year 1911 (
                                Washington
                            , 1913), I, 67–176.
                  
                     60 James Shriver, An Account of
                                Surveys and Examinations with Remarks and Documents Relative to the
                                Projected Chesapeake and 
                                    Ohio
                                 and 
                                    Ohio
                                 and Lake Erie Canals (
                                Baltimore
                            , 1824), 69, quoted in Macgill, History of
                                Transportation in the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 91.
                  
                     61
                            Niles Weekly Register, IV (May 15, 1813), 177.
                  
                     62
                            American State Papers, Military Affairs (
                                Washington
                            , 1860), IV, 141; American State Papers,
                                Miscellaneous, II, 425, 593, 977.
                  
                     63 See, for example, Michael Chevalier, Society, Manners and Politics in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Boston
                            , 1839), 233.
                  
                     64 See George Prevost's comment of August
                            27, 1814, quoted in Adams, History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , VII, 146, that "two thirds of the army
                            in 
                                Canada
                             are at this moment eating beef provided by American
                            contractors, drawn principally from the States of 
                                Vermont
                             and 
                                New York
                            ."
               
                     for settlement and a rush of homeseekers to
                    the West followed.65 The volume of produce to be moved to
                    distant markets significantly increased. Concurrently with the influx of
                    settlers went the introduction of the steamboat to the western rivers and the
                    extension of cotton culture into the Southwest. The first of these developments
                    brought improved transportation to all areas with navigable waters; the second
                    opened up a very profitable field for the employment of labor and capital and
                    gave rise to an important trade in agricultural produce upon the western
                        rivers.66 The prosperity which came to the southern and
                    western populations increased their ability to purchase such manufactures as
                    they required and thus provided eastern manufacturers with a rapidly expanding
                    market. An eager rivalry developed among the commercial cities of the seaboard
                    to secure a share of the western trade. "The West ceased to be a mere
                    refuge of poverty and field for the adventure of pioneers. The enterprise and
                    capital of the country turned away from the ocean and foreign commerce, and
                    found here a new field for its operation."67
            
            But, mainly for three reasons, private capital did not flow in any great volume
                    into transportation. First and most important, capital was extremely scarce.
                    Secondly, most Americans with capital were unwilling to devote their savings to
                    risky investments or to those from which a return would be slow as well as
                    uncertain. Thirdly, persons abroad looking for investment opportunities
                    preferred to lend their money to governmental entities or to corporations whose
                    securities were backed by governmental guarantees.68 Since
                    the federal government had greater prestige, as well as a greater taxing power
                    than the states, it was to this government that the people continued to look for
                    leadership in the development of the long agitated transportation connections
                    between the East and the West.
            The government at 
                        Washington
                     seemed inclined to accept the responsibility. On December 3, 1816,
                    President 
                  
                     65 Between 1810 and 1816 
                                Kentucky
                            's population grew from 406,511 to 527,000; 
                                Ohio
                            's from 230.000 to 400,000; and Indiana's
                            from 24,520 to more than 70,000. Niles Weekly
                            Register, X (April 13, 1816), 112.
                  
                     66 Callender, "The Early Transportation
                            and Banking Enterprises of the States," 124–129.
                  
                     67
                            Ibid., 130.
                  
                     68
                            Ibid., 131–154.
               
                     Madison invited the attention of Congress
                    to "the expediency of exercising their existing powers, and, where
                    necessary, of resorting to the prescribed mode of enlarging them, in order to
                    effectuate a comprehensive system of roads and canals." Such a system,
                    he added, would "have the effect of drawing more closely together every
                    part of our country by promoting intercourse and improvements and by increasing
                    the share of every part in the common stock of national prosperity."69
            
            In keeping with the President's suggestions, early in February, 1817, a
                    select committee of the House of Representatives presented to the Committee of
                    the Whole House a detailed report on roads and canals.70 The
                    moment was particularly opportune, the report emphasized, for undertaking a
                    system of improvements such as Gallatin had recommended in 1808. The pursuits of
                    peace "had been resumed with renovated vigor." Political
                    developments in Europe had tended to emphasize the importance of domestic
                    commerce. Since 1808 the annual revenue had grown from $14,000,000 to
                    "an average of twenty-five millions." The various parts of the
                    country had indicated a lively interest in the improvement of transportation
                    facilities. Most important of all, it was essential to provide without delay
                    outlets through American territory for the area—"moderately
                    estimated at 60 millions of acres"—bordering on Lake
                    Champlain, the St. Lawrence River, and the Great Lakes. Until such outlets were
                    provided "all the productions of this extensive district"
                    would continue to be drawn to the British ports of Lower 
                        Canada
                    , "from whence also the merchandise, the arms, and the
                    infuence of Great Britain, are conveyed with unrivalled celerity to the recesses
                    of all the north western indian tribes within our limits." Only by an
                    improved inland navigation could the whole commerce of that region "be
                    advantageously turned to the ports and possessions of the 
                        United States
                    ."
            Nor would the cost be excessive. Federal aid need not exceed
                    $10,000,000. This might take the form of subscriptions to the stock
                    of private companies chartered by the states to carry out the general plan. The
                    many and varied ensuing benefits would include: (1) an increase in the value of
                    land and in the revenues of the central government; (2) a 
                  
                     69 Richardson, Messages and Papers of
                                the Presidents, I, 576.
                  
                     70
                            Niles Weekly Register, XI (February 22, 1817),
                            423–427.
               
                     strengthening of the federal union
                    "by an indissoluble community of interests, habits and
                    attachments"; (3) an enhancement of the efficiency and striking power
                    of the armed forces; (4) a vast savings in transportation costs and a
                    corresponding expansion of both domestic and foreign commerce. As a plan of
                    procedure the report recommended that the President be requested to take
                    measures for ascertaining as far as practicable, and to report to the House
                    "at the next and every subsequent session of congress, such roads,
                    canals, and improvements in water courses as are required in a general system of
                    inland navigation and intercourse throughout the extent of the 
                        United States
                     and the territories thereof, best adapted to facilitate the
                    intercourse necessary for personal, commercial, and military purposes."
            The report was not to receive further consideration. At the time of its
                    submission the attention of the House was wholly engrossed by a bill from a
                    select committee appointed on motion of John C. Calhoun. This bill provided that
                    the $1,500,000 exacted from the Second Bank of the 
                        United States
                     as the price of its charter, and the dividends on the
                    $7,000,000 of its stock owned by the 
                        United States
                    , should be set apart as a permanent fund for internal
                        improvements.71 There followed a long debate in which
                    each state and section contended for advantage.72 The South
                    was concerned lest the measure strengthen the federal government at the expense
                    of the states. New 
                        England
                     feared that improved east-west transportation would further
                    encourage a westward migration that was already threatening to depopulate the
                    Eastern Seaboard. Furthermore, her spokesmen argued that, since New 
                        England
                     had built her own roads, it was unreasonable to ask her to help pay
                    for roads in other sections of the country. But the voting strength of the
                    middle and western states was too much for the Northeast and the South. After
                    amending the bill to provide that no works were to be begun in any state without
                    its consent, and that the fund was to be distributed pro rata to the states to
                    be applied by them to internal improvements, the House approved the measure by a
                        
                  
                     71 The bill was introduced December 16, 1816. See
                                Annals of Congress, 14th Cong., 2d Sess., p. 296.
                            For the committee's report, see ibid., 361.
                  
                     72 For the principal speeches, see ibid., 296, 851–871, 874–914,
                            916–923, 933–934, 1051–1052.
               
                     vote of 86 to 84.73 A
                    few days later the Senate accepted the House bill by a vote of 20 to 15, every
                    Senator from New 
                        England
                     save one voting in opposition.74
            
            Although the bill did not reach 
                        Madison
                     until the day before the end of his term of office, he did not
                    choose to allow the act to die unnoticed. Instead he promptly sent it back to
                    the House with his veto, explaining that he was doing so because of
                    "the insuperable difficulty" he felt in reconciling the
                    measure with the Constitution.75 Neither the commerce
                    clause, the clause relating to "common defense and the general
                    welfare," nor any other clause of that document gave Congress the power
                    to construct roads and canals within the individual states. But, since the
                    proposed law dealt with matters of great importance, he hoped that "its
                    beneficial objects" might be attained by amending the
                    Constitution—the procedure marked out in that instrument itself.
            
               
                        Madison
                    's veto was followed nine months later by 
                        Monroe
                    's first annual message, in which he stated his belief that
                    the Constitution did not empower Congress to establish a system of internal
                    improvements and, like his illustrious predecessor, recommended an amendment to
                    convey the power.76 To the friends of internal improvements
                    these constitutional scruples of the 
                        Virginia
                     dynasty, although accompanied by approval of a plan for internal
                    improvements at federal expense, came as a challenge. In an important debate on
                    the constitutionality of national improvements, in 1818, the House of
                    Representatives, voting on four resolutions submitted by William Lowndes, of 
                        South Carolina
                    ,77 declared by a vote of 90 to 75 that Congress
                    had power to appropriate money for the construction of military roads, and of
                    other roads, and of canals, and for the improvement of watercourses. But it
                    decided against the power to construct post roads and military roads (82 ayes to
                    84 nayes); against the power to construct roads and canals necessary to commerce
                    between the states (71 to 95); and against the power to construct canals for
                    military purposes (81 to 83).
            It was clear after this debate that there was not a sufficient majority to
                    override the veto which might be expected 
                  
                     73
                            Ibid., 934.
                  
                     74 McMaster, A History of the People
                                of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , IV, 415.
                  
                     75 Richardson, Messages and Papers of
                                the Presidents, I, 584–585.
                  
                     76
                            Ibid., II, 19.
                  
                     77
                            Annals of Congress, 15th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 1249,
                            1383–1389.
               
                     from the President. On the other hand, the
                    majority were unwilling to hazard the rights which they claimed to possess by
                    appealing to the states for a constitutional amendment. What was to be done? In
                    1819 the President approved a bill authorizing the employment of the army in the
                    construction of roads of military significance,78 and under
                    this authorization several important roads were constructed. But this, as
                    everyone realized, was only a makeshift, in no sense a substitute for a
                    comprehensive construction program. In 1822 Congress approved a bill authorizing
                    the President to cause tollhouses, gates, and turnpikes to be erected on the
                    Cumberland Road and to appoint toll-gatherers with power to enforce the
                    collection of tolls to be used for the upkeep of the road.79
                    The President vetoed the bill on the ground that it implied a power to adopt and
                    execute a complete system of internal improvements, a power which he was certain
                    the Congress did not possess and the states individually could not grant.
            The failure of the federal government to accept the position of leadership in the
                    development of transportation facilities meant that if east-west water
                    connections were to be established they would have to be provided by the states.
                    Nothing loath, the states accepted the challenge and plunged into a program of
                    canal and road construction the like of which the country had never seen before.
                    Without federal aid of any kind, 
                        New York
                     built her famous Erie Canal, linking Lake Erie with the Hudson
                    River, and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     constructed her equally famous amphibious transportation system to
                    join the Susquehanna with the 
                        Ohio
                    . Later, assisted by federal land grants, 
                        Illinois
                     built a canal to connect Lake 
                        Michigan
                     and the 
                        Illinois
                     River, 
                        Ohio
                     constructed two canals to link the Great Lakes with the 
                        Ohio
                     River, and Indiana, with the co-operation of 
                        Ohio
                    , built a canal between 
                        Evansville
                    , on the 
                        Ohio
                    , and 
                        Toledo
                    , on Lake Erie.80 Later 
                  
                     78
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, III, 480.
                  
                     79
                            Annals of Congress, 17th Cong., 1st Sess., pp. 443,
                            577.
                  
                     80 See John Bell Rae, "Federal Land
                            Grants in Aid of Canals," Journal of Economic
                                History. IV (1944), 167–177. See also James W.
                            Putnam, The 
                                    Illinois
                                 and 
                                    Michigan
                                 Canal (
                                Chicago
                            , 1918); Bogart, Internal Improvements and
                                State Debt in 
                                    Ohio
                                
                     ; C. P. McClelland and C. C. Huntington, History of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Canals (
                                Columbus
                            , 1905); Esarey, Internal Improvements in Early
                                Indiana; Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana From
                                Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth, I,
                        295–298.
               
                     still, with federal assistance, 
                        Kentucky
                     built a canal around the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    .81
            
            The states, forced to depend primarily on their own resources, no doubt learned
                    something about the virtues of self-reliance. But some of the other consequences
                    of state development of transportation routes were not so praiseworthy. The
                    highways, built without the benefit of central direction or national planning,
                    were sometimes routed in such a manner as to divert traffic from the
                    transportation systems of neighboring states. More serious still, priority of
                    construction was not always given to the projects best calculated to promote the
                    development of the nation as a whole. Competition did not reach the cut-throat
                    stage, but it did prevent the development of a comprehensive, integrated system
                    of transportation. It also encouraged the states to spend more money than they
                    could well afford, making them vulnerable to the onslaught of the Panic of 1837.
                    The credit side of the ledger, however, is more weighty than the debit. Even
                    though of all the important canals only the Erie was a financial success, all of
                    the major state-developed waterway improvements reduced transportation costs,
                    stimulated east-west trade, and contributed significantly to the development of
                    the extensive regions that they served.82 More important
                    still, by helping to bind the West to the East by "the strong chains of
                    commerce," they made a contribution of immeasurable importance to the
                    steadying and strengthening of the Federal Union.
            
               
                  81 Buley, The Old Northwest, I,
                        435–436.
               
                  82 Rae, "Federal Land Grants in Aid of
                        Canals," 173–174; 
                            Putnam
                        , The 
                                Illinois
                             and 
                                Michigan
                             Canal, 154–156; Bogart, Internal Improvements in 
                                Ohio
                            
                  , 78–89.
            
         
         
         
            Cultural History of 
                        Indianapolis
                    : Literature, 1875–1890
             II
            
                    Eva Draegert
                    *
                
            While club activities encouraged literary appreciation and gave numerous writers
                    their chief opportunity for self-expression, many in 
                        Indianapolis
                     wrote for occasional publication and some were truly professional.
                    The press rendered a great service to many professional writers by providing
                    employment to satisfy their immediate needs and by acting as a stepping stone
                    toward an independent literary career. Of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     fraternity of letters, those most widely known to the general
                    reader are James Whitcomb Riley, Meredith Nicholson, and Booth Tarkington. In
                    the 1880's, Tarkington was still in school and had not yet turned
                    professional; Meredith Nicholson was getting valuable experience writing both
                    for the Sentinel and the News. Neither
                    Tarkington nor Nicholson was able to establish himself as an independent
                    professional writer until about the turn of the century when their first
                    successful publications appeared. Both were much influenced by the example of
                    Riley and by the friendly advice which he was always ready to give to young and
                    struggling authors.145
            
            Riley had come to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to live in 1879, and during the next decade he worked to build the
                    reputation which has since gathered considerable legend around it. These years
                    were not easy ones. By joining the Journal staff in November,
                    1879, at a salary of $25.00 a week, he was enabled to live while he
                    worked to perfect his writing technique.146 Until the
                    publication of his first book in 1883, he commonly wrote under assumed names,
                    such as "Benj. F. Johnson of Boone," "John C.
                    Walker," "Jay Whit," and
                        "Edryn."147 This fondness for
                    pseudonyms is further illustrated 
                  
                     * Eva Draegert is instructor in social
                            studies at Woodruff High School, Peoria, 
                                Illinois
                            . Part I of this article appeared in the September issue.
                  
                     145 Banta, Indiana Authors and their
                                Books, 1816–1916, pp. 313, 238; Robert Cortes
                            Holliday, Booth Tarkington (
                                Garden City
                            , 
                                New York
                            , 1919), 8–9.
                  
                     146 Jeanette Covert Nolan, James
                                Whitcomb Riley, Hoosier Poet (
                                New York
                            , 1941), 186–187.
                  
                     147
                            Ibid., 174, 200–204; 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Times, June 22, 1940.
               
                     by the variety of humorous and witty
                    signatures which appeared on his letters to close friends, for instance,
                    "Doc Marigold," "Brother Whittleford,"
                    "Uncle Sidney," "Troubled Tom," and
                    "Old E. Z. Mark." Once he signed a poem for Edward Bok, editor
                    of the Ladies' Home Journal, "James Hoosier
                    Riley, the Whitcomb Poet."148
            
            Though he wrote some prose, it did not rank with his poetry, for which he is best
                    known. Success came slowly and rejection slips were regularly received.149 Yet he labored diligently; and in 1883 his good friend,
                    George C. Hitt, business manager of the Journal, acted as his
                    publisher to bring out the first Riley book, "The Old
                        Swimmin'-hole," and 'Leven More Poems. The
                    entire edition of one thousand copies was quickly sold, netting a profit of
                    $166.40. Unable to persuade the Robert Clarke Company of 
                        Cincinnati
                     to undertake the project, Hitt valiantly assumed the entire
                    financial responsibility himself and generously turned over all the net proceeds
                    to Riley.150 Concerning this book the News
                    commented: "Mr. Riley shows himself an artist of no mean order.
                    … Although immensely popular, and destined in its present handy and
                    tasteful form to have a wider reading, this work is much in the nature of a
                    diversion, and does not contain Mr. Riley's best and more serious
                    efforts. These will doubtless follow in other volumes in time. This very modest
                    and altogether pleasing volume is for sale at all the book stores for fifty
                        cents."151
            
            Later in 1883, soon after this first edition was exhausted, a second appeared
                    under the imprint of Merrill, Meigs and Company of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In many ways it resembled the earlier one, for it was similarly
                    bound in parchment and a red line bordered each page.152
                    Publication of the second edition was perhaps the turning point or climax for
                    literary culture in the Inland City, for it was to set a standard by which
                    accomplishment in the publishing field would in the future be measured. It
                    further proved to be a happy occasion for both author and publisher, for it
                    contributed substantially to the excellent reputation and fruitful career of
                    each. Their long association, broken only by 
                  
                     148
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Times, June 22, 1940.
                  
                     149 Dickey, The Maturity of James
                                Whitcomb Riley, 136.
                  
                     150 Nolan, James Whitcomb Riley,
                                Hoosier Poet, 206–209; Banta, Indiana
                                Authors and their Books, 1816–1916, pp.
                            270–271.
                  
                     151
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, July 20, 1883.
                  
                     152
                            Ibid., October 3, 1883.
               
                     Riley's death in 1916, appears to
                    have been an exceedingly happy one.153
            
            The publishing firm of Merrill, Meigs and Company possessed an old as well as a
                    broad and distinguished background in both bookselling and in the publication of
                    legal books. In fact, its history antedated the Hoosier capital, for one of its
                    founders, Samuel Merrill, was noted for his erudition and love of books, perhaps
                    even sold books, before coming to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the 1820's. Riley, on the other hand, was a man of
                    simple human qualities, unassuming and modest, who took no credit for his
                    poetry, claimed no unusual ability, and insisted that he was only the instrument
                    for the inspiration which flowed through his pen.154 He was
                    without formal education, as far as college training was concerned, yet he
                    possessed a knowledge of people that no college course could have given him. By
                    whatever means he acquired this wisdom, it contributed to his writings an appeal
                    which reached deep into the hearts of his readers of every station.
            A gentle humor was characteristic of both his writing and his speaking. Those
                    still living who remember him well feel that this was his outstanding
                        quality.155 His humor was not of a hilarious sort; a
                    note of pathos was always present so that the laughter he caused was often close
                    to tears. Whether or not he was a great poet—critics continue to
                    disagree over the quality of his contribution—he was an important one
                    for Indiana. The Hoosier poet was on the threshold of a national and
                    international reputation.
            The editors of the Bobbs-Merrill Company recall those regular morning visits in
                    later years when Riley would drop in to open his mail, to warm his hands by the
                    great open fireplace—a feature of the publishing house on the south
                    side of 
                        Washington
                     Street—and perhaps to confer briefly with his editor.
                    The poet often kept "in character" a week at a time and,
                    during one of those periods, came in each day as "Brother
                    Brightwaters," a lay reader from down state; such performances, of
                    course, were a never-ending source of entertainment for the entire staff of the
                    firm. No formal contracts were ever made, for Riley professed an aversion 
                  
                     153 Interview with Julius Birge.
                  
                     154 Dickey, The Maturity of James
                                Whitcomb Riley, 330–331.
                  
                     155 Interview with Anna Hasselman.
               
                     to them. He impressed many as being
                    whimsical and somewhat temperamental; his personality was unique and helped
                    foster the legend which grew up around and about him.156
            
            Merrill, Meigs brought out a second Riley book in 1885, Character
                        Sketches, a Christmas Story and Other Sketches, and a third one, Afterwhiles, in 1887.157 The next year it
                    was announced that Riley had two more books in preparation, one of
                        which—Old-Fashioned Roses—was
                    already in the press of an English firm, and that he was also busy arranging the
                    manuscript of a volume of story and verse to be published by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     house. This latter volume, Pipes O' Pan at
                        Zekesbury, appeared in 1889, and two years later, in 1891, his Rhymes of Childhood was published. That same year another
                    edition of "The Old Swimmin'-hole," and
                        'Leven More Poems with additional selections was published in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .158 After that the list grew steadily and
                    rapidly until Riley's death and included a total of thirty-nine titles,
                    two of which were reissues of his first book, and three others collected
                    editions of his writings in both verse and prose. All but nine of these titles
                    were brought out by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     firm.159
            
            No records are available to indicate the degree of material success enjoyed by
                    either the publishing firm or the author through the sale of Riley's
                    books locally or nationally.160 The continuance of the
                    relationship, of course, would indicate that it was regarded as mutually
                    profitable, and the progress of the firm in what was for them a completely new
                    subject-matter field was indeed prophetic. Present local evidences of
                    Riley's beneficence bear further witness to his financial success.161
            
            After the first full evening's program in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in October, 1879, which was so well received, Riley went on to
                    regular circuits throughout Indiana and neighboring states. He began such a tour
                    in February, 1880, going first to 
                  
                     156 Interview with Julius Birge; 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, October 4, 1949.
                  
                     157 Data from the files of the Bobbs-Merrill
                            Company.
                  
                     158 Banta, Indiana Authors and their
                                Books, 1816–1916, p. 271.
                  
                     159
                            Ibid., 271–272.
                  
                     160 Interview with Julius Birge.
                  
                     161 It is well known that Riley gave to the city
                            of 
                                Indianapolis
                             the land on which stands the children's hospital
                            named for him.
               
                    
                    
                        Greencastle
                    , then to 
                        Terre Haute
                    .162 In September he gave another complete
                    program in 
                        Indianapolis
                     at the Grand Opera House before a large audience. His critic noted
                    that he showed much improvement over his last appearance but that "a
                    little more of the polished art of the reader would not injure the introductory
                    part of the entertainment."163 In addition to his
                    tours, he continued to appear on almost every benefit program given in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , adding valuable experience to his natural ability. In 1881 he
                    signed a contract with the Redpath Lyceum Bureau and began work with them after
                    Christmas of that year. His first appearance under the new management was at
                    Canton, 
                        Ohio
                    , on December 28, after which he appeared at Tremont Temple, 
                        Boston
                    , on January 3, 1882.164 Since apparently no
                    further reference to Redpath was made, it is not known just how long this
                    association continued.
            In 1886 the Riley-Nye combination began. Their first performance was given at the
                    Grand Opera House in February in collaboration with Eugene Field, who had come
                    from 
                        Chicago
                     for the event. Bill (Edgar Wilson) Nye, the well-known humorist,
                    was no novice at this time but it was Field's stage debut. Mrs. John C.
                    New and Miss Sallie Bingham provided the musical part of the program. One of the
                    best audiences ever gathered in 
                        Indianapolis
                     greeted the performers with a reception almost embarrassing in its
                    warmth. The affair was indeed a success.165 From this
                    beginning the partnership of Nye and Riley continued about five years. Mark
                    Twain and George W. Cable had successfully swung around the circuit before them,
                    and it is quite probable that the Riley-Nye performances were equally effective.
                    Both humorists, their alternate appearances on the program usually consisted of
                    attempts to out-insult each other, to the delight of the audience.
                    Riley's part always included a number of original readings, well
                    interspersed with anecdotes as only he could tell them.166
                    For a time during this partnership they added to their program a singer, Miss
                        
                  
                     162
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, February 6, 1880.
                  
                     163
                            Ibid., September 15, 1880.
                  
                     164
                            Ibid., August 12 and December 23, 1881.
                  
                     165 Dickey, The Maturity of James
                                Whitcomb Riley, 234; Nolan, James Whitcomb Riley,
                                Hoosier Poet, 214–215; 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, February 5, 1886.
                  
                     166
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, December 12, 1889.
               
                     Katherine Willard, niece of the famous
                    temperance lecturer, Frances Willard.167
            
            Riley had embarked upon a gruelling schedule, one which would tax the endurance
                    of a far sturdier person than he appeared to be. There was some complaint that
                    this work was causing him to sacrifice his writing. This was no doubt justified;
                    yet in the face of such criticism a thirty-weeks' tour was planned with
                    the Western Lyceum Agency for the winter and spring of 1889–1890.
                    This tour was a great success, financially and otherwise, for all concerned
                    except Riley, who continued to receive but $40.00 a performance when
                    the box office receipts for a single evening totaled as much as
                    $1,600. But Nye had managed better than Riley and was growing richer.
                    Friction developed between them, doubtless because of this situation and also
                    because Riley, fatigued by his heavy schedule, had taken to drink. Finally at 
                        Louisville
                     in January, 1890, Riley lost his temper and broke the contract
                    which would soon have come to an end anyway. But in spite of the fact that they
                    were no longer business partners, the two managed to continue their friendship.
                    Riley feared the reaction of his public at home toward this turn of events but
                    was relieved when the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Literary Club accorded him a most heart-warming reception upon his
                        return.168
            
            In 1887 Riley was honored by an invitation to participate in the American
                    Author's Entertainment sponsored by the International Copyright League,
                    at Chickering Hall, 
                        New York
                    . The League had been holding similar annual meetings for ten years,
                    but this was the first time Riley had been invited to participate and probably
                    the first time any writer from 
                        Indianapolis
                     had been so honored. The program, held November 28–29,
                    1887, was presided over by James Russell 
                        Lowell
                     and included also such well-known names as Richard Henry Stoddard,
                    Henry Cuyler Bunner, Edward Eggleston, George W. Cable, and Mark Twain. Unknown
                    at the outset, Riley read with success and received an ovation from his
                    audience. He was invited to return to Chickering Hall the following February to
                    participate in a program planned by Augustin Daly to honor Henry Irving and
                    Ellen Terry.169
                    
                  
                     167 Interview with Anna Hasselman.
                  
                     168 Dickey, The Maturity of James
                                Whitcomb Riley, 257–263.
                  
                     169
                            Ibid., 242; Nolan, James Whitcomb Riley,
                                Hoosier Poet, 217–222, 226; 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, December 1, 1887.
               
                    
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     had been heard from and the East had met a poet from the West.
            Before 1880 Riley had had five portraits made; the first of these, by Theodore C.
                    Steele, is the only one the whereabouts of which was known in 1938, when it was
                    owned by members of the Riley family. One of the lost portraits was by John Love
                    and another by Fred Hetherington. In 1893, Steele had returned from Europe and
                    painted one of the greatest of the Riley portraits, which was presented to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Press Club and later found its way to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Literary Club. The seventh portrait also was made by Steele on
                    commission from the Bobbs-Merrill Company. In 1900 John Singer Sargent made the
                    eighth, generally known as the official Riley portrait, which became the
                    possession of the John Herron Art Museum. The ninth and last portrait, painted
                    by Steele in 1912, is a copy of the 1893 portrait and now hangs in the Riley
                    Hospital at the Indiana University Medical Center.170
            
            Riley was one of those uncommon individuals who received the plaudits of his
                    fellow townsmen during his lifetime. They loved the wit and humor of his private
                    conversation and were charmed by his personality.171
                    "His incompetence—real or pretended—in many
                    directions was one of the most delightful things about him."172 His critics have divided on the question of whether he
                    really loved children. Meredith Nicholson stated that Riley's
                    "wide popularity as a poet of childhood was due to a special genius for
                    understanding the child mind. Yet he was shy in the presence of children, and
                    though he … could establish himself on good terms with them, he
                    seemed uncomfortable when suddenly confronted by a strange child."173
            
            It was always the human element that appealed to him. The people he knew were his
                    chief interest in life. Riley "comprehended one great truth that few
                    poets, and for that matter few other writers, learn, namely, that unlettered
                    folk have the same emotional experiences which their more 
                  
                     170
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Times, November 10, 1938.
                  
                     171 Dunn, Greater 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , I, 518.
                  
                     172 Meredith Nicholson, The Man in
                                the Street (
                                New York
                            , 1921), 58.
                  
                     173
                            Ibid., 43.
               
                     learned neighbors feel. … Though
                    they may themselves be inarticulate when it comes to the expression of their
                    finer emotions and dreams, they welcome those who put into words what they
                    dumbly feel."174
            
            Educational circles objected to his use of dialect, but Riley defended himself by
                    pointing out that Bret Harte, John Hay, and others used it.175 In the estimate of recent writers, Riley not only invented the dialect
                    which he employed in his writing but also "invented the typical
                    Hoosier. … The figure emerging … is of a mellow, humorous
                    rustic, a quaint, bucolic philosopher, unlettered but gifted with an earthly
                    shrewdness, a peasant wisdom, a heart of gold, speaking a drawling, hybrid
                    tongue, a dubious dialect as yet unidentified by any philologist—but
                    a figure so convincing that even the Hoosier himself was persuaded to proclaim
                    it his true likeness and to try to emulate it."176
                    Opinion has generally prevailed that in his poetry Riley actually characterized
                        himself.177
            
            In addition to Riley a list of 
                        Indianapolis
                     authors of the 1880's would include at least thirty-four
                    other names. Some of these were not literary folk in the strictest sense, for
                    they were all members of other professions, such as law and education, and
                    generally have few books to their credit. Still others were more exclusively of
                    the writing fraternity and made specific contributions to the literary culture
                    of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Sarah T. Bolton was one of the earliest poets in Indiana, as well as 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and in the decade of the 1880's was regarded somewhat as
                    one whose life work was well-nigh completed, for a volume entitled The Life and Poems of Sarah T. Bolton, edited by Major Jonathan W.
                    Gordon, was published in 1880.178 Nevertheless she continued
                    to read her original poems at social gatherings and to write books for young
                    people. In 1888 it was learned that over ten thousand copies of each of the
                    three books in her series of 
                  
                     174 Anna Nicholas, The Story of Crown
                                Hill (
                                Indianapolis
                            , c1928), 289.
                  
                     175 Dickey, The Maturity of James
                                Whitcomb Riley, 83.
                  
                     176 Jeannette Covert Nolan, Horace Gregory, James
                            T. Farrell, Poet of the People; an Evaluation of James
                                Whitcomb Riley (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1951), 18.
                  
                     177 Dickey, The Maturity of James
                                Whitcomb Riley, 389ff.
                  
                     178
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, May 5, 1880.
               
                     biographies for young people had been sold,
                    and she was persuaded to start work on two additional volumes.179 Mrs. Bolton contributed valuable counsel to the literary scene by her
                    encouragement of Riley. Her poetry expressed vividly the spirit of her time.180 She is particularly remembered as author of
                    "Paddle Your Own Canoe," which was set to music and became a
                    song hit of its day.
            Ben D. House was a prominent literary figure in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He had been in the city since the Civil War writing poetry of a
                    patriotic nature; however, the extent of his publication during his lifetime was
                    through the press, for he did executive work with various newspapers. His chief
                    contribution to literary culture was a moral one, in the giving of advice and
                    the upholding of literary standards. Both Riley and Nicholson wrote of him with
                        gratitude.181
            
            George C. Harding, who was editor of several newspapers at various times,
                    likewise rendered a great service to the literary culture of 
                        Indianapolis
                     by the encouragement which he gave to other writers. He provided an
                    avenue for their publication and enjoyed entertaining them in his home, where
                    they might discuss and freely criticize each other's work.182
            
            Mary Hartwell Catherwood lived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     only from 1879 to 1882 but was closely identified with the literary
                    scene during that time. Her co-operation with and encouragement of other
                    writers, especially Riley, is worthy of mention.183
            
            Julia Constance Fletcher, daughter of Rev. James Cooley Fletcher, lived abroad
                    but was a native of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Under the pseudonym "George Fleming," she wrote
                    two novels, Mirage and Kismet, which were
                    widely read in the 1880's.184
            
            Daniel L. Paine was one of the so-called cloak poets. He was a shy man, well
                    known only to close associates who 
                  
                     179
                            Ibid., December 1, 1888.
                  
                     180 Nicholas, The Story of Crown
                            Hill, 266–268.
                  
                     181
                            Ibid., 281–283; Banta, Indiana
                                Authors and their Books, 1816–1916, p. 156.
                  
                     182 Esarey, A History of
                            Indiana, II, 1130; Banta, Indiana Authors and their
                                Books, 1816–1916, pp. 131–132.
                  
                     183 M. L. Wilson, Biography of Mary
                                Hartwell Catherwood (
                                Newark
                            , 
                                Ohio
                            , 1904), 43; Banta, Indiana Authors and their
                                Books, 1816–1916, pp. 54–55.
                  
                     184
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, November 1, 1916.
               
                     sought him out. His poem, "At
                    Elberon," in memory of President Garfield, was considered by many the
                    finest poetical tribute honoring that martyred president.185
            
            Berry R. Sulgrove published his History of 
                            Indianapolis
                         and 
                            Marion
                         County, Indiana during this decade. He probably exerted
                    more influence through his editorial writing for the News and
                        Journal than through his one published work.186
            
            Daniel Wait Howe, for a time president of the Indiana Historical Society, did
                    much to encourage the preservation of important documents and to foster public
                    interest in state and local history. Writer of several volumes, the first of
                    which was published in 1886, he made a collection of Indiana laws which he later
                    presented to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Public Library.187
            
            Also in the historical field was Jacob Piatt Dunn, whose books began to appear
                    during this decade. His work was praised for its historical accuracy,
                    originality, and literary merit.188
            
            William H. English, although publishing nothing during this decade, was
                    throughout his life interested in literary and scientific subjects and was
                    constantly engaged in collecting the materials which bore fruit later in his
                    historical works, Conquest of the Country Northwest of the River 
                            Ohio
                         1778–1783 and a History of
                        Indiana.
               189
            
            Catharine Merrill was a born teacher, but a writer largely by force of
                    circumstance. At the suggestion of her mother, she had kept a journal from
                    childhood and thus early began her habit of observation. Educated carefully by
                    her father, and later in 
                        Germany
                    , she reflected through her writing and classroom lectures the
                    thorough training which she had received. Because of her literary skill she was
                    chosen, as noted earlier, to write the story of Indiana in the Civil War. Her
                    other book, The Man Shakespeare, doubtless grew out of
                    lectures to students. To the literary culture of the age her chief contribution
                    was the inspiration she gave to many 
                  
                     185 Nicholas, The Story of Crown
                            Hill, 279.
                  
                     186
                            Ibid., 270–271; Indiana
                                Magazine of History, II, 139–150.
                  
                     187 Rabb and Herschell, An Account of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion
                                 County, 103; Banta, Indiana Authors
                                and their Books, 1816–1916. pp. 158–159.
                  
                     188
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             News, March 20, 1886.
                  
                     189 Rabb and Herschell, An Account of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion
                                 County, 103–104; Banta, Indiana Authors and their Books, 1816–1916, p.
                        105.
               
                     students, for she seemed to possess a
                    "divine curiosity" which she was able to transmit to those
                    whom she taught. After her resignation from 
                        Butler
                     University in 1883, she conducted private classes in literature in
                    her own home and through this means established an appreciation for literary
                    works, the extent and value of which it would be difficult to estimate. Her
                    influence on the cultural scene in her time was broad and profound.190 It was only natural that a literary club be established
                    and named for her, with its chief objective to continue her influence and the
                    activities which she had begun.
            Meredith Nicholson, who later became an outstanding literary figure in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was getting valuable training and experience in the
                    1880's. He once stated that there was considerable interest in
                    literature in Indiana during his youth, and that this fact was important in
                    shaping his career. Nicholson worked in a law office and associated with learned
                    people; and, though his own training was scant, he was to a considerable extent
                    able to educate himself by reading the books he heard people talk about.191 Having written some poetry in 1886, he turned to prose,
                    and one of his sketches won a prize in a 
                  
                            Chicago
                         Daily Tribune contest.192 Although
                    Nicholson was born in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , he spent most of his life in the Hoosier capital and became
                    closely identified with life in 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            For Booth Tarkington this decade was one of apprenticeship for his later
                    emergence as a professional writer.193 At a very early age,
                    before he could even spell the words, he dictated stories to his sister and as
                    he grew older he was continuously engaged in writing. When Tarkington was about
                    eleven his acquaintance with Riley began, and he later acknowledged that the
                    poet exercised over him a strong, though often unconsciously-felt, influence all
                    his life.194 Another writer refers to Tarkington as a
                    "James Whitcomb 
                  
                     190 Katharine Merrill Graydon, Catharine Merrill, Life and Letters (
                                Greenfield
                            , Indiana, 1934), passim; 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, January 31, 1882; September 24, 1883;
                            interview with Anna Hasselman.
                  
                     191 Charity Dye, Some Torch Bearers
                                in Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , C1917), 275–280.
                  
                     192
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, February 22, 1886.
                  
                     193 Ima Honaker Herron, The Small
                                Town in American Literature (Durham, N. C., 1939), 341.
                  
                     194 Holliday, Booth Tarkington,
                            8–9.
               
                     Riley with a college education, writing
                    fiction instead of verse."195
            
            In 1889 Tarkington graduated from Phillips Exeter Academy, following which he
                    spent a year at Purdue and three more at 
                        Princeton
                    .196 Then came a period of writing during which
                    his only published works were occasional short sketches in periodicals. His
                    first novel, The Gentleman from Indiana, was published in
                    1899. The initial phase of his writing was devoted to praise and glorification
                    of life in the Hoosier capital and in other Indiana towns. He defended
                    small-town ways and middle-class thinking. Although he made no attempt at
                    historical accuracy, his novels and essays contributed much to the history of
                    the time by his portrayal of the change which began to take place in 
                        Indianapolis
                     at the end of the 1880's when the coming of natural gas
                    hastened the transformation of the city into a manufacturing center. Older
                    residents who witnessed this change agree that Tarkington gave a true picture of
                    the social and cultural life of 
                        Indianapolis
                     as it was in the seventies and eighties and later as the face of
                    the town changed. "Like hundreds of others throughout the country, this
                    town, too, moved forward with the times, its old stock becoming less and less
                    typical, and newcomers with energy and business acumen taking their places of
                    community leadership. In the offspring of German, Jewish, Irish, Italian, and
                    other settlers 'a new Midlander—in fact, a new
                    American—was beginning dimly to emerge.' To this new spirit
                    of citizenship the magnificent Ambersons, reared in luxury, were unable to adapt
                    themselves. Others, with a heritage of labor, rapidly took high places as the
                    town progressed from village to market town to a manufacturing
                        city."197
            
            And this was Tarkington's contribution. He could interpret so well the
                    Inland City because he was a product of it and had had the advantage of the
                    example and inspiration of other writers of that period.
            Albert J. Beveridge, like Tarkington, also benefited from association with
                    cultural 
                        Indianapolis
                     of the 1880's and was later able to reap the benefits of
                    that influence. In 
                  
                     195 Herron, The Small Town in
                                American Literature, 341.
                  
                     196
                            National Cyclopedia of American Biography (
                                New York
                            , 1930), Vol. A, p. 84.
                  
                     197 Herron, The Small Town in
                                American Literature, 343.
               
                     1887 he was admitted to the bar. Very soon
                    in his successful career he became known as a political orator, and he delivered
                    many public addresses. His biographical works written much later were in some
                    measure the product of his study and work in this period when many were turning
                    to letters both as an avocation and as a profession.198
            
            Although Lew Wallace lived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during his youth and the Inland City would like to claim him, he is
                    much more closely identified with 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , where he spent the greater part of his life.199 He did, of course, have various associations in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but he was principally a part of that great literary movement
                    evident throughout Indiana.
            The Western Association of Writers, formed in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in June, 1886, was at first called the American Writers'
                    Association. Writers from all of the 
                        United States
                     were welcome, but at that time only two eastern states were
                    represented. The sixty-four charter members, thirty-nine of whom were women,
                    were writers of poetry, fiction, historical and descriptive literature, and
                    dialect sketches. The object of this association was to encourage amateur
                    authors and to be of some advantage to professional authors.200 It was hoped that each member would present to the association an
                    original production which would then be published in a collective volume of
                    representative western literature. This was the first such movement in the
                    history of the 
                        United States
                    , and no pattern of action existed to help the members in their
                    early organizational difficulties. Riley, Sarah T. Bolton, and Mary Hartwell
                    Catherwood were among those participating in the first meeting.201
            
            The name of the group was soon changed to Western Literary Association, and the
                    members sought the cooperation of the Indiana Historical Society in promoting
                    sound literature in Indiana.202 At its meeting in February,
                    1887, the association decided to omit the miscellaneous reading of prose and
                    poetic works in order to relieve the long and 
                  
                     198 Claude G. Bowers, Beveridge and
                                the Progressive Era, (
                                New York
                            , 1932), 31–61.
                  
                     199 Rabb and Herschell, An Account of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion
                                 County, 98.
                  
                     200
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Sentinel, October 24, 1886.
                  
                     201
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, June 25, 1886.
                  
                     202
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Sentinel, July 2 and 4, 1886.
               
                     tedious program and, instead, to have
                    papers and addresses on special topics. By that time the membership included
                    people prominent in literary and newspaper work as well as philosophers and
                        educators.203 In July, 1887, the name was again changed
                    to the Western Association of Writers.204 In June, 1888, the
                    enthusiasm manifested at earlier meetings was not apparent. Light attendance at
                    sessions was noted and some embarrassment was felt by the officers over the lack
                    of interest of members.205 Riley was honored with a special
                    dinner by the association in October, when addresses were given by Theodore L.
                    Sewall, Mamie S. Paden of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , John C. Ochiltree, and Professor David Starr 
                        Jordan
                     of Indiana University.206 The place of 
                        Indianapolis
                     in the literary culture of the age was understood, for one of the
                    speakers, James Boyle O'Reilly, said, "A man can rise in 
                        Indianapolis
                     a thousand miles from 
                        Boston
                    , and strike a literary note that the whole country turns its ear to
                        hear."207
            
            The Indiana Historical Society, organized in 1830, had functioned so little in
                    its early years, except for brief periods of activity, that it hardly seemed to
                    exist. In 1886 it was reorganized by a group of 
                        Indianapolis
                     men who inaugurated a publishing program. The first results
                    included a series of pamphlets, dated 1886–1888, which covered
                    subjects of statewide historical interest. Jacob P. Dunn, who served as
                    secretary of the Society from 1886 to 1924, was an important figure in this
                    renewed activity. William H. English was elected president in 1886, and under
                    his guidance the Society sought to aid the State Library in building up its
                    collection of books and pamphlets on Indiana history. About one thousand of
                    these had already been collected.208 Since in many sections
                    of the state the interest in local history seemed to extend very little beyond
                    the local area, the impetus for the work through the years came principally from 
                        Indianapolis
                     men. For this reason the cultural benefits gained were confined
                    largely to that city.
            
               
                  203
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Journal, February 22, 1887.
               
                  204
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             News, July 1, 1887.
               
                  205
                        Ibid., June 8, 1888.
               
                  206
                        Ibid., October 19, 1888.
               
                  207 Dickey, The Maturity of James
                            Whitcomb Riley, 230.
               
                  208
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             News, December 1, 1880; July 21, 1885; June 4, 1886;
                            
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Sentinel, December 12, 1886.
            
            
            Probably no phase of literary life was more active in the eighties than the
                    lecture or lyceum. Courses were offered each year, and in addition, all the
                    outstanding lecturers in almost every field of thought in the 
                        United States
                    , as well as some from 
                        England
                    , appeared in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the decade. The content of the many lyceum programs offered
                    ranged from pure entertainment to the serious and more learned subjects. Some
                    evidence indicates a deliberate attempt at education of young people through a
                    series of historical addresses. Probably adult education benefited from lectures
                    only incidentally, since popular interest seemed to be the only criterion for
                    the selection of speakers and subjects.
            A course of historical lectures for young people, aimed at inspiring them with
                    patriotism, and begun in 1885 largely through the efforts of Charity Dye and
                    Mary E. Nicholson, was given at 
                        Plymouth
                     Church free to children but at a cost of one dollar for adults. All
                    the speakers were 
                        Indianapolis
                     residents who gave freely of their time.209 The
                    series, which apparently continued from 1885 through the decade, was well
                    attended, and the sponsors felt that their efforts had been well rewarded.210
            
            In the regular lecture or lyceum courses, a season's program generally
                    included a wide variety of topics, such as temperance, science, philosophy,
                    literature, and music. The series announced in 1885 by the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Lecture Course seems typical. It included: A. P. Burbank in an
                    adaptation of Dickens' A Tale of Two Cities; Rev. A.
                    A. Willetts, "Moonshine, or the Illusions of Life"; Major H.
                    C. Dane, "Naval Battles of the War"; Mrs. Mary A. Livermore, a
                    women's rights lecturer; Lieutenant Schwatka, "The Search for
                    Sir John Franklin"; 
                        Harvard
                     College Quartet and E. A. Pierce, reader; Miss Nella F. Brown,
                    subject unannounced; Will Carleton, author of Farm Ballads;
                    the Rock Band and the Till family of English balladists; and Rev. DeWitt
                    Talmadge, subject unannounced. Course tickets sold for $2.50 and
                    seats could be reserved before each lecture.211
            
            
               
                  209
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Sentinel, October 24, 1886.
               
                  210
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             News, November 14, 21, and 28, 1885; January 28, 1889.
               
                  211
                        
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             Evening Minute, November 7, 1885; 
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             News, October 31 and November 12, 1885.
            
            
            Other famous persons who appeared in lyceum series during the 1880's
                    included John B. Gough, well-known temperance orator, who spoke in 1882, 1883,
                    and again in 1886. Mrs. Livermore spoke several times, as did Lew Wallace, Rev.
                    Myron W. Reed, and George W. Cable. In 1886, when two courses of six lectures
                    each were offered, the price was reduced to one dollar for six, though the
                    quality of the program was declared to be higher than formerly.212 In 1883 the aging Henry Ward Beecher spoke at the Park Theater. He
                    remarked that he saw no familiar faces, for it had been a generation since he
                    had given lectures in the city.213 His talk in 1884 was
                    announced as his last appearance in 
                        Indianapolis
                     as a lecturer, but he did speak once more in 1886, a year before
                    his death.214
            
            Sponsors of the lyceum included the Young Men's Christian Association,
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Lecture Association, and the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Lecture Bureau (possibly the same as the preceding group). Other
                    groups which offered regular programs were: the Chautauqua Literary and
                    Scientific Circle at Fletcher Place Church,215 the 
                        Indianapolis
                     School of Elocution and Oratory, the Central Avenue Lyceum, and the
                    Leonine Club. The Methodist Episcopal Church offered a series of educational
                        lectures,216 and the Mayflower Congregational Church
                    arranged for several talks on the Bible.217
            
            Many other lectures on various subjects were given during the 1880's
                    which may have been independent of the regular courses. Robert Ingersoll, famous
                    agnostic, lectured in 1880 on what seems for him a strange topic, "What
                    Must We Do To Be Saved?"218 In 1881, A. Bronson
                    Alcott spoke on the Concord authors; 219 and later that
                    season during the same week both Ingersoll and Beecher gave lectures, the former
                    on "The Great Infidels," the latter on "The New
                        Profession."220 In 1883 Emily Bingham returned
                    from 
                        Boston
                    , where she had been studying, to teach elocution and she gave 
                  
                     212
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Sentinel, October 31, 1886.
                  
                     213
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, February 8, 1883.
                  
                     214
                            Ibid., April 4 and 7, 1884; April 6, 1886.
                  
                     215
                            Ibid., September 19, 1881.
                  
                     216
                            Ibid., March 15, 1880.
                  
                     217
                            Ibid., April 3, 1880.
                  
                     218
                            Ibid., May 6, 1880.
                  
                     219
                            Ibid., January 21, 1881.
                  
                     220
                            Ibid., May 23, 1881.
               
                     a program of readings.221 Will Dickson endeavored in vain to arrange for a lecture by Henry
                    George, famous political economist who had recently returned from a successful
                    tour of Great Britain.222 Carl Schurz addressed an audience
                    of four thousand in a political speech at the Park Theater in 1884.223 Anna Dickinson spoke during the same season on Joan of
                        Arc.224 Justin McCarthy, who appeared in 1887 in behalf
                    of Irish home rule, received a touching tribute from a delegation of
                    Irish-American citizens.225 Charles Dickens read from his
                    father's works at 
                        Plymouth
                     Church in 1887, but in no way seemed to compare with the elder
                        Dickens.226 The cause of women was advanced in 1886 in a
                    paper read before the American Association for the Advancement of Science by
                    Lillie J. Martin, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who at the same time was elected to membership in that society.
                    She was the only woman member of the Indiana Scientific Association which had
                    been organized the preceding winter.227
            
            Probably the high points of the lecture activities were the appearances of two
                    famous Englishmen, Oscar Wilde and Matthew Arnold. The latter came in February,
                    1884, sponsored by Rev. O. C. McCulloch, at a cost of $300. He was
                    well received and later wrote his daughter that he "had a capital
                    audience, and found some zealous disciples who interested [him]."228 Afterwards in public comments on his visit to America,
                    he criticized the commercialism and crudeness which he had found in some places
                    but stated that he thought the American lecture courses were an excellent way to
                    educate the public.229
            
            The appearance of Oscar Wilde gave the people of 
                        Indianapolis
                     a sensation they would not soon forget. The entire occasion was
                    unusual. No one introduced him; he seemed to prefer a solitary entrance and kept
                    his audience waiting 
                  
                     221
                            Ibid., July 4, December 6 and 12, 1883. Emily Bingham
                            was probably a sister of Sallie Bingham, a singer.
                  
                     222
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, May 5, 1884.
                  
                     223
                            Ibid., September 16, 1884.
                  
                     224
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Evening Minute, December 11, 1884.
                  
                     225
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Journal, January 27, 1887.
                  
                     226
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, December 3, 1887.
                  
                     227
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Sentinel, October 24, 1886.
                  
                     228 Robert R. Hubach, "Nineteenth-Century
                            Literary Visitors to the Hoosier State," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XLV, 46–48.
                  
                     229
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, April 25, 1884.
               
                     a half hour for the privilege of gazing
                    upon him. He was six feet of languid demeanor, with a low, monotonous voice and
                    a self-assured, positive, careless manner. His costume for the occasion
                    included, in addition to the customary swallow-tailed coat, a double-breasted
                    vest, velvet knee breeches, black silk hose, and enormous shoes with silver
                    buckles. He wore his hair long, perhaps to cover his extremely large ears.
                    Occasionally he struck a deliberate pose with hand on desk, other arm akimbo,
                    and eyes fastened on the rail of the second gallery. His lecture on the English
                    Renaissance was listened to attentively by the large audience, which would have
                    expressed itself by applauding occasionally had the speaker permitted. The door
                    receipts totaled $350 and Wilde received for his efforts
                    three-fourths of this sum.230
            
            The Social Science Association, intellectual ancestor of the town hall idea, held
                    its second annual meeting in 1880, at which time it offered a program of
                    lectures by Professor J. C. Ridpath of 
                        Greencastle
                    , Miss Carrie Smith of 
                        Madison
                    , C. W. Coffin of 
                        Richmond
                    , and Rev. N. A. Hyde of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Their subjects varied from art to prisons.231
                    The next year at the third annual meeting, Sue Ketcham delivered a lecture on
                    art; other speakers included Professor W. A. Bell of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     public schools, Professor J. B. Roberts, Dr. Lemuel Moss of Indiana
                    University, Mrs. E. E. Starrett of 
                        Chicago
                    , Mrs. Shipp, and a Mrs. McRae of 
                        Muncie
                    .232
            
            Among the booksellers of the decade the principal firms were those of Herman
                    Engelbach and Francis M. Crouse, second-hand dealers; Bowen, Stewart and
                    Company; Merrill, Meigs and Company; and Cathcart and Cleland. The Atlantic, Century, Scribner's, and Harper's were extremely popular magazines, the arrival of
                    which provided an occasion for many citizens to visit the book shops. But some
                    would have visited the book dealers anyway, for 
                        Indianapolis
                     was a city of readers. A number of residents at this time owned
                    fine, costly private libraries.233 New books advertised
                        
                  
                     230
                            Ibid., February 23 and 24, 1882; August 18, 1882. 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Times, February 22, 1937; February 22, 1939.
                  
                     231
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Star, November 24, 1940; 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Journal, May 8, 1880.
                  
                     232 Social Science Association program, 1881.
                  
                     233 Nolan, James Whitcomb Riley,
                                Hoosier Poet, 179.
               
                     for sale by Cathcart and Cleland in 1880
                    included such titles as Moths, by "Ouida"
                    (Louise De La Ramée); Memoirs of Prince Metternich;
                    and Progress and Poverty, by Henry George.234
            
            About 1880 a book-and map-publishing firm, Granger Davis and Company, was
                    established in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Its existance was brief, for a year later the establishment was
                    closed by the sheriff, allegedly for mismanagement, and all its equipment was
                    advertised for sale.235
            
            The merger of the book-selling firms of Bowen, Stewart and Company and Merrill,
                    Meigs and Company in 1885 was the second step during the decade in the direction
                    of the position currently held by the Bobbs-Merrill Company in the publishing
                    field. In 1883 Merrill, Meigs had stepped into the general literary field of
                    publishing when William C. Bobbs arranged with George C. Hitt to take over
                        "The Old Swimmin'-hole" and get
                    out a second edition. As Riley phrased it, the firm had donned "its
                    literary overalls."236 Two years later, on December
                    31, 1884, the merger was effected and on January 1, 1885, the firm became known
                    as the Bowen-Merrill Company. That year its second Riley title was issued, and
                    two years later, in 1887, the third one appeared.237 During
                    the decade the publishing program already under way was continued. It included
                    law books, elementary arithmetic texts, and books for Sunday school teachers. In
                    later years Bowen-Merrill expanded its list of law books and public school texts
                    but discontinued its religious books, which were taken over by the Meigs
                    Publishing Company, an offshoot of the old Merrill, Meigs and Company.238
            
            The three men principally responsible for the policies developed by the
                    Bobbs-Merrill Company into the 1900's were brought together by the
                    merger. They were Charles Merrill and William C. Bobbs of Merrill, Meigs and
                    Company, and John J. Curtis of Bowen, Stewart and Company. Merrill, son of
                    Colonel Samuel Merrill and grandson of the founder, 
                  
                     234
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, February 20, 1880.
                  
                     235
                            Ibid., January 26, 1881.
                  
                     236 Bobbs-Merrill Co., The Hoosier
                                House (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1923), 8–9.
                  
                     237 Interview with Julius Birge; data from the
                            files of the Bobbs-Merrill Company.
                  
                     238 Interview with Julius Birge; data from the
                            files of the Bobbs-Merrill Company.
               
                     managed the firm's business
                    affairs, while Bobbs was supervisor of the law department until 1895, when he
                    became general manager.239 The company has accorded Curtis
                    credit for two ideas which contributed much toward the progress made in the
                    trade book field: the decision to search out manuscripts that would have popular
                    appeal and become best-sellers, and the introduction of brightly illustrated
                    book jackets.240
            
            The entry of Bowen-Merrill into the trade book field was a strongly energizing
                    influence for authorship in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in Indiana, and the entire Middle West. The firm in its own
                    biographical sketch declares that "there can be no doubt that the
                    presence of a publishing house stimulated her [Indiana's] literary
                    activities. The knowledge that effort would unquestionably be considered and
                    that obscurity was no bar to acceptance must have given hope to the ambitious,
                    must have, indeed, created ambition where ambition never grew before. The
                    influence not always concrete in its expression, is none the less potent, and
                    Indiana's literary life has felt it, whether it flowed through the
                    young local channel or through shores more definitely marked by the passage of
                    time.
            "Art can not thrive, lacking opportunity for expression, and the more
                    readily accessible the opportunity, the more abundant the striving. The
                    potential Hoosier author awoke and that amazingly productive era
                        began."241
            
            The Riley volumes constituted only the beginning for the Bowen-Merrill Company.
                    Its publication of the first Meredith Nicholson book in 1891 started another
                    mutually profitable relationship. The firm was indeed taking on the stature of a
                    Hoosier House. So far it had published only poetry in the trade field but in
                    1895 its first novel was issued: A Woman Reigns, by Catherine
                    McLaen New. This work made little impression either literarily or financially
                    but was an important step for the firm, which in 1895, upon the death of Bowen,
                    changed its official name to The Bobbs-Merrill Company. When
                        Knighthood Was in Flower, by Charles Major of 
                        Shelbyville
                    , published in 1897, gave to the 
                  
                     239
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Sentinel, January 25, 1903.
                  
                     240 Bobbs-Merrill, The Hoosier
                            House, 9–10; 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Star Magazine, February 2, 1947.
                  
                     241 Bobbs-Merrill, The Hoosier
                            House, 6–7.
               
                     firm its first best-seller and with it a
                    national reputation. It came near to breaking its own record in 1900 with Alice of Old 
                            Vincennes
                        
               , by J. Maurice Thompson. From there on, the story of
                    Bobbs-Merrill has been one of many successful ventures. In 1900 the firm had
                    three of the ten best-sellers in the 
                        United States
                    ; in 1907, four out of the top ten; and in 1926 it topped the
                    best-seller lists in both fiction and non-fiction.242 In
                    1935 the company could claim the distinciton of having helped in the development
                    of more than one hundred Indiana writers.243
            
            Sales figures are not available to determine the number of books sold or the
                    breadth of the field served by Bowen-Merrill during the 1880's. Much of
                    this sort of data was lost in the disastrous fire of 1890, in which the building
                    with nearly all its contents was destroyed.244 The company
                    had greatly expanded since the reorganization of 1885 and in 1890 carried an
                    extremely large stock of books. The firm occupied five floors in its building,
                    two of them used for their book-selling business, while the remaining three
                    floors were stocked with newsprint for sale to county weeklies. About fifty
                    people worked in the building, in addition to the salesmen who traveled over
                    three or four states supplying drug stores with stationery and school books.245
            
            The building, then on the north side of 
                        Washington
                     Street where the western portion of the H. P. Wasson building now
                    stands, caught fire on the afternoon of March 17, 1890. In an effort to control
                    the flames, firemen had gone to the roof when, without warning, the building
                    collapsed, carrying twelve firemen to their death and injuring sixteen others.
                    The iron facade of the building was no doubt responsible for this tragedy. In
                    addition to the loss of life, nearly all the books and other supplies were
                    destroyed, among them most of an edition of Riley's poems. Two hundred
                    copies of the latter had been sold to Christmas shoppers, but nearly all that
                    remained were burned. The financial loss was estimated at $125,000,
                    only $70,000 of which was covered by insurance.246 Afterwards the company occupied a building, 
                  
                     242 Interview with Julius Birge.
                  
                     243
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Star, July 23, 1935.
                  
                     244
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, October 5, 1949.
                  
                     245
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Times, March 17, 1944.
                  
                            246
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     almost an exact replica of the first one,
                    on the south side of 
                        Washington
                     Street, until it moved to the present quarters in 1910.
            When the old state house was torn down in 1878, the State Library was faced with
                    the problem of finding a temporary home so that its collections might still
                    prove useful to patrons. The old capitol had been a museum as well as a library,
                    with its accumulation of war mementoes, prehistoric Indian weapons, and relics
                    of all sorts. Satisfactory quarters were found in the building on Market at 
                        Tennessee
                     (now Capitol Avenue). When the new state house was completed, the
                    library was moved to quarters in the south wing of the second floor, where it
                    remained until 1934. In 1883 it was said to comprise seventeen thousand
                        volumes.247 The library collection did not expand
                    rapidly because of the small annual appropriation for books; in 1888 only
                    $400 was available for books and repairs.248 Yet,
                    before the state house was quite finished, fears were expressed that the space
                    allotted to the library was entirely inadequate.249 No
                    satisfactory book catalog existed at the time, and much effort was expended by
                    the librarians during the decade in preparing one. The dictionary plan was
                    adopted as the most desirable, and work proceeded on that arrangement.250
            
            Finding its quarters much too crowded, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Public Library in 1880 considered the various plans which had been
                    offered to alleviate this condition. It finally accepted the offer of the Alvord
                    property on the southwest corner of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     streets, opposite the new Denison Hotel. A building was constructed
                    south of the old Alvord house and was connected directly with the original
                    building which fronted on 
                        Ohio
                     Street. This new stone and brick building cost about
                    $14,000, and a ten-year lease on the property was obtained at a
                    rental of $3,000 per annum. School offices and stacks were situated
                    on the main floor and 
                  
                     247 Sulgrove, History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion
                                 County, 439.
                  
                     248
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, February 17, 1888.
                  
                     249
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Evening Minute, January 12, 1885.
                  
                     250
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, April 29, 1882; June 11, 1883; February 17,
                            1888. The Cutter system of cataloging (listing names by number) was
                            thought to be too elaborate; so it was decided to list library books
                            alphabetically in a single volume.
               
                     the reading room on the second floor. The
                    principal entrance was on 
                        Ohio
                    , but a special entrance for ladies was provided through the school
                    board offices on 
                        Pennsylvania
                    !251 The work of moving the books to new shelves
                    was done during state fair week, and the library was formally opened about
                    October 1.252 During the first two weeks in the new location
                    circulation fell almost to zero, and the librarian was in despair, fearing the
                    new location was to blame. But as soon as the election was over and political
                    activity relaxed, patronage increased.253
            
            Book circulation had dropped in 1880 slightly below the figures for 1879, and an
                    even greater decrease was evident in 1881. During the next two years circulation
                    increased, then dropped again in 1884 to 137,256, about 58,000 less than the
                    previous year. A slight gain was noted in 1885, and by 1886 the total almost
                    reached that for 1883. Thereafter a steady growth was observed until 1890, when
                    a considerable loss was again experienced. This smaller volume of circulation
                    continued through 1891 and 1892, but fluctuation occurred despite the constant
                    growth in the number of registration cards issued. Since it has been previously
                    suggested that book circulation figures and business prosperity proceed in
                    opposite directions, it might thus be presumed that the business recess of the
                    later 1880's was reflected directly in the sudden increase in 1886 of
                    the use of the library. It might also be suggested that the return of prosperity
                    affected the circulation, which dropped in 1890; but the librarian reported that
                    some books were withdrawn for reclassification in the years
                    1889–1891, a fact which might account for some decrease in that
                    period. It will be recalled, too, that the library had been founded in 1873, the
                    year of the panic.254
            
            For comparison, the annual figures for registration cards and total book
                    circulation, obtained from the library reports, are here listed for the years
                    1882–1892. For the year 1888, when two-year cards were first issued,
                    no total was listed.255
            
            
               
                  251
                        Ibid., March 1 and 12, July 14, September 3 and 27, 1880.
               
                  252
                        Ibid., September 17 and October 4, 1880.
               
                  253
                        Ibid., October 19, 1880.
               
                  254
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Public Library, Annual Report
                        (1873–1893).
               
                        255
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            
               
                  Year
                  Registration cards issued
                  Books in circulation
               
               
                  1882
                  1,268
                  188,239
               
               
                  1883
                  1,211
                  195,377
               
               
                  1884
                  1,398
                  137,256
               
               
                  1885
                  1,545
                  150,537
               
               
                  1886
                  1,862
                  194,170
               
               
                  1887
                  3,401
                  314,695
               
               
                  1888
                  —
                  317,108
               
               
                  1889
                  7,907
                  347,966
               
               
                  1890
                  10,732
                  271,897
               
               
                  1891
                  13,273
                  269,542
               
               
                  1892
                  16,088
                  265,746
               
            
            The librarian proudly announced in 1887 that the cost of service by the library
                    amounted to only 1.79 cents per volume handled. This cost was the lowest
                    achieved in the history of the library and was less than that reported by 
                        Chicago
                    , 
                        Cincinnati
                    , 
                        St. Louis
                    , 
                        Cleveland
                    , or 
                        Detroit
                    .256
            
            Many books and periodicals were added to the collection in the 1880's,
                    including foreign publications. A catalog on the dictionary plan similar to that
                    being developed in the State Library was in process. The first issue was
                    completed and published in 1885.257 An interesting effect of
                    the publicacation of a list of new books was observed in 1883. Early on the
                    morning following its issue, many people were waiting at the door for admission.
                    On other similar occasions as many as fifty persons would be waiting. This time
                    the librarian was forced to issue a new rule that each patron could draw only
                    two books, for it was learned that many readers had been gathering up all the
                    library cards in their neighborhoods in order to borrow a book on each card.258
            
            By 1889 the library found itself again in need of enlarged quarters, and it was
                    hoped that authorization might be secured from the legislature to erect a
                    building for the use of the library and the public school offices.259
            
            Other libraries in the city during the 1880's included the 
                        Marion
                     County Library, housed in the courthouse, which had a collection of
                    3,500 volumes in 1887. Most of its users were farmers. The law library of the
                    Supreme Court, with 14,000 
                  
                     256
                            Ibid., Sixth Annual Report (1887).
                  
                     257
                            
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News, January 21, 1882; February 9 and September
                            24, 1883; July 8, 1885. This catalog consisted of a 940-page dictionary
                            in which each of the 38,500 volumes in the Public Library was listed by
                            author, title, and subject.
                  
                     258
                            Ibid., October 6, 1883.
                  
                     259
                            Ibid., December 28, 1889.
               
                     volumes, was available to the legal
                    profession. The State Library then possessed 18,500 books and documents; the
                    Catholic Library for Workingmen, 1,350 volumes; and the Indiana Medical College,
                    1,200 volumes. In addition, a special Scottish Rite Masonic Library existed in
                    the city. With the collection at the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Public Library totaling 50,000 volumes by 1890, it appeared that
                    efforts were being made to satisfy the cultural needs of the citizens of the
                    Hoosier capital.260
            
            The growth of libraries as well as the number of clubs, lectures, and other forms
                    of literary activity which were flourishing may be regarded as an indication of
                    the considerable interest in and enjoyment of literature in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the period of this study, 1875–1890. The large
                    number of writers, representing a number of learned professions, who produced
                    during this period some three hundred published volumes covering a wide variety
                    of subjects,261 may be seen as further proof that 
                        Indianapolis
                     literary life, particularly in the later 1880's, was
                    extremely lively and vigorous.
            
               
                  260
                        Ibid., May 26, 1887; Sulgrove, History of 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Marion
                             County, 439; 
                            Indianapolis
                         Public Library, Annual Reports.
               
               
                  261 Banta, Indiana Authors and their
                            Books, 1816–1916, passim.
               
            
         
         
         
            Membership and Subscription Renewals
            Memberships in the Indiana Historical Society, which include a subscription to
                    the Indiana Magazine of History, are on a Calendar Year basis.
                    It would be most helpful if memberships were renewed in December or early in
                    1957.
            Membership in the Society is $5.00 per year for individuals and
                    institutions alike; an annual Sustaining Membership is $10.00; and an
                    annual Contributing Membership is $25.00. Life memberships are
                    $100. Renewals should be addressed to the Indiana Historical Society,
                    State Library and Historical Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                     4, Indiana, and checks made payable to the Indiana Historical
                    Society.
            Members of the Society automatically receive the monthly Indiana
                        History Bulletin, one or more annual Publications of
                    the Society, and occasional issues of the Prehistory Research
                        Series, in addition to the quarterly issues of the Indiana
                        Magazine of History.
            
            The Indiana Magazine of History has a limited number of surplus
                    copies of certain recent issues. The Editor will be glad to send sample copies
                    from this surplus to prospective members nominated by members of the Society.
                    Send your nominations of persons, libraries, schools or organizations to the
                    Editor, Indiana Magazine of History, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . As long as the supply lasts, nominees will receive sample copies
                    and the printed leaflet inviting membership in the Indiana Historical
                Society.
         
         
         
            The Le Bras Approach To the History of the Diocese of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
            
            
                    Thomas T. McAvoy, C.S.C.
                    *
                
            One of the most difficult problems in the study of the diocese of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     or of any religious history in the 
                        United States
                     is the acquisition of objective, concrete facts about religious
                    activities. The divorce between government and religious institutions,
                    especially outside the thirteen original states, and the tendency to write
                    history from governmental sources has resulted in an underwriting and even an
                    ignoring of religious history in the 
                        United States
                    . Increasing the difficulties of the inquiry is the fact that when
                    religious history has been written it has generally been compiled in terms of
                    one or another denomination. Often, in the case of smaller religious bodies,
                    this history has not been compiled at all. The increased interest in social
                    history that followed the attempts of Frederick J. Turner, John B. McMaster, and
                    Vernon L. Parrington, to mention some important writers, to go beyond political
                    and military history has likewise increased interest in religious history. But
                    even though the census reports since the latter part of the nineteenth century
                    have included economic and social data, religious statistics have always been
                    sadly lacking.1 There have been a few studies on the effect
                    of the frontier on religion2 and a few historical studies of
                    immigrant religious groups, but there have been no adequate studies of the
                    history of religious life in the 
                        United States
                    . The writer of a suitable 
                  
                     * The Reverend Thomas T. McAvoy,
                            C.S.C., is chairman of the history department, University of Notre Dame,
                            Notre Dame, Indiana. Father McAvoy is also director of the Archives of
                            the university.
                  
                     1 The only exception has been a census of
                            religious bodies. Census of Religious Bodies: 1936 (2
                            vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1941) was the fourth decennial study and an investigation
                            of religious bodies, not of religious persons. The 1946 compilation was
                            omitted because Congress failed to make an appropriation for the work.
                            The others were made for the years 1906, 1916, and 1926.
                  
                     2 Peter G. Mode, The Frontier Spirit
                                in American Christianity (
                                New York
                            , 1923); William W. Sweet, Religion on the
                                American Frontier, 1783–1840 (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1931–1946); and Gilbert J. Garraghan, Chapters in Frontier History (Milwaukee, 1934), are
                            mild attempts to study religion on the frontier. Thomas T. McAvoy, The Catholic Church in Indiana, 1789–1834 (
                                New York
                            , 1940), deals mostly with frontier conditions. So also does
                            R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest, Pioneer Period,
                                1815–1840 (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1950) II, 417–488.
               
                     history of religion in the area designated
                    as the diocese of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     must begin with this deficiency in historical writing.
            Gabriel Le Bras,3 of the Sorbonne, has worked out a theory of
                    religious history which has added new meaning to French religious history.
                    Roughly, instead of tracing an external religious organization or arguing over
                    the dogmatic beliefs of certain regions or cities, Le Bras has endeavored to
                    work out a formula for an analysis of the religious activities of the French
                    people in any given period of their history and the social, political, and
                    economic factors affecting that activity. For 
                        France
                     during most of her history this involves a study of the members of
                    one religious body, the Roman Catholic church. In fact, few religious activities
                    in the history of 
                        France
                     cannot be examined on the basis of their connection with or their
                    departure from Roman Catholicism. 
                        France
                     is no longer a Roman Catholic country in the sense that it was in
                    medieval times, but even today 
                        France
                     does not offer the complicated problem of a multitude of religious
                    organizations as does the 
                        United States
                    .
            The Le Bras method takes for its unit the French parish, which is a standard
                    geographical unit having as its center a parish church. Besides listing the
                    strictly religious activities of a parish, Le Bras attempts to ascertain the
                    effects of geographical, economic, and sociological factors on the religious
                    activities of the parish and in turn on the activities of the district and the
                    region. Thus he endeavors to secure information on the effects of the ethnic
                    character of the population, its mobility, its relations with other places and
                    peoples, and its relations with civic organizations, on the religious practices
                    at a given time and on their evolution through the history of the parish and
                    region. The application of this method to the study of an American region is
                    complicated by the many differences in tradition, but insofar as the emphasis is
                    on religious practices and non-religious factors, which are to be studied
                    independently of any propagandistic or apologetic purpose, the method can be
                    adopted.
            
               
                  3 Gabriel Le Bras, Introduction
                            à l'histoire de la Pratique religieuse en 
                                France
                            
                   (2 vols., 
                            Paris
                        , 1941–1945). See Thomas T. McAvoy, "New
                        Technique, Writing Religious History," University of 
                                Portland
                            
                   (
                            Oregon
                        ) Review, VIII (April, 1955), 9–17.
                        Le Bras has published variations on this theory in La Revue
                            D'Histoire de L'Egtise en 
                                France
                            
                  , XXXI (1945), 277–306, 318–342,
                        and XXXV (1949), 39–41, 69–75, and in Cahiers Internationaux de Sociologie, I (1940),
                    39–66.
            
            
            In this country there are no parishes or parish churches that have existed for
                    over five hundred years, nor is there a peasantry that has inhabited any region
                    for a similar period. While there is mobility of population in modern 
                        France
                    , that mobility does not yet approach the population movement of the 
                        United States
                    . Although there are a few regions in the 
                        United States
                     where nearly everyone professes the same religious faith, these are
                    exceptions. Consequently the use of the religious parish district or diocese as
                    a unit of study can have only limited value. To apply the Le Bras method to the
                    region known as the Roman Catholic diocese of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , which will celebrate its centenary in 1957, the historian must
                    consider it a useful geographical unit but not a unit binding all forms of
                    religious activities. Nevertheless the eighteen counties in northern Indiana
                    which now comprise that diocese4 afford a desirable region
                    for such a study since they are inhabited by rural and urban, agricultural and
                    industrial, English and non-English people—nearly all the elements
                    that one would wish to see in this type of study.
            The Roman Catholics in the counties of the diocese number only 242,293 (1956) in
                    a population of more than 1,240,846 (1950 census)5 but under
                    the Bishop of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     they have a well-defined organization of deaneries, parishes, and
                    missions and they constitute for the region the most numerous single religious
                    denomination. But even the study of Roman Catholicism of this region would be
                    incomplete if it did not include a comparison with the activities of other
                    religious groups and of those who belong to no religious denomination as well as
                    a survey of the non-religious factors that have influenced the religious life of
                    the region.
            The first step in writing such a religious history must be the acquisition of all
                    possible strictly religious historical 
                  
                     4 The chief histories of the diocese of 
                                Fort Wayne
                             are Rt. Rev. Herman J. Alerding, The Diocese
                                of 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                , 1857—September—1907 (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1907), and its supplementary volume by John F. Noll, The Diocese of 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                , Fragments of History (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1941). Sister Mary Carol Schroeder, The
                                Catholic Church in the Diocese of 
                                    Vincennes
                                , 1847–1877 (
                                Washington
                            , 1946), treats of the northern part of the diocese prior to
                            1857. The eighteen counties of the present diocese of 
                                Fort Wayne
                             are: Lake, Porter, LaPorte, Starke, 
                                St. Joseph
                            , Marshall, 
                                Elkhart
                            , 
                                Kosciusko
                            , 
                                Lagrange
                            , 
                                Steuben
                            , Noble, 
                                DeKalb
                            , 
                                Whitley
                            , Allen, 
                                Wabash
                            , 
                                Huntington
                            , Wells, and Adams.
                  
                     5 "The Diocese of 
                                Fort Wayne
                            ," Official Catholic Directory,
                            1956 (
                                New York
                            , 1956), 405–410.
               
                     information. Most of the historical writing
                    about religion in the area of the present diocese of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     is special history and has tended to be the history of clerical
                    organizations and of the religious institutions established by them. Such
                    histories are also usually limited to one denomination and its formal religious
                    activities. Generally speaking, the compilation of the special history of all
                    religious organizations in the diocese—Protestant, Catholic, and
                    Jewish — should precede any attempt to study the effects of
                    environmental factors. But the data must be compiled in as objective a manner as
                    possible independently of any propagandistic value in the statistics. In
                    acquiring these statistics the researcher must keep in mind that religious
                    motives have been a factor in population movements, since nearness to a church
                    or pastor was frequently important in the choice of a farm site or community,
                    especially in the case of immigrants seeking to settle in the new country near
                    others who spoke their same language and practiced their same religion.
            Most American population movements were not primarily religiously motivated. In
                    the so-called westward migration the physical geography that determined the
                    lines of communication necessarily affected the movements of the people who
                    built them and those who used them, and hence had indirect influence on the
                    religious life of the people. The prehistory6 of the
                    migration of the Indians of the Great Lakes region has little direct bearing on
                    the present religious history of the Americans of the northern counties of
                    Indiana, except that the first white missionaries and fur traders came to
                    minister and to trade with the Miami and the Potawatomi along the 
                        St. Joseph
                     River and along the shores of Lake 
                        Michigan
                     and smaller inland lakes. The first centers of white settlements7 and religious missions were along the water routes. Thus
                    the three first settlements of 
                  
                     6 For Indiana ethnological history see the
                            articles by Glen Black and his associates in the Indiana
                                History Bulletin, passim, and the Prehistory
                                Research Series of the Indiana Historical Society; Eli Lilly,
                                Prehistoric Antiquities of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1937).
                  
                     7 The latest and best account of Indiana history
                            is that of John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony, Indiana
                                From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954). Earlier accounts have been published by Logan
                            Esarey, A History of Indiana (3d ed., 2 vols., 
                                Fort Wayne
                            , 1924); Jacob P. Dunn, Indiana, a Redemption
                                from Slavery (
                                Boston
                            , 1905); and John B. Dillon, A History of
                                Indiana … to 1816 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1859). The bibliography in Barnhart and Carmony, II,
                            553–568, is a useful tool for any local Indiana
                        history.
               
                     white persons were probably along the 
                        St. Joseph
                     River of Lake 
                        Michigan
                     with a center at the portage north of the present 
                        South Bend
                    , along the portage from the Maumee to the 
                        Wabash
                     with a center at Fort Miami, later 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , and the traders' posts on the southern shores of Lake 
                        Michigan
                    . Of next importance after the water routes were the overland trails
                    which connected them, chief of which, in this region were the trail that crossed
                    from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to the 
                        St. Joseph
                     and the one from 
                        Detroit
                     to the southern tip of Lake 
                        Michigan
                     which crossed the northwestern corner of the state. When pioneer
                    farmers began to settle the region they tended to follow the same water routes
                    and trails. Furtrading centers became the early villages, and the river valleys
                    with their fertile soil naturally attracted the early farmers. Water power of
                    the rivers, especially the 
                        St. Joseph
                    , and the transportation facilities offered by the rivers
                    considerably influenced the growth of 
                        South Bend
                     and 
                        Fort Wayne
                     as early manufacturing towns. Two artificial water carriers, the
                    Erie Canal, which increased the flow of settlers from New 
                        England
                     and 
                        New York
                     to the Great Lakes region, and the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal, which had some importance in the development of the 
                        Wabash
                     valley, had much to do with the character of the early population.
                    The chief influence of Lake 
                        Michigan
                     on the development of northern Indiana came later with the
                    development of the iron and steel industries of the Calumet area. The general
                    levelness of northern Indiana which made overland travel, even off the beaten
                    trails, not too difficult aided in the migration of families in the
                    1830's and 1840's from southern Indiana, 
                        Ohio
                    , and certain southern states into the northern counties. This
                    levelness was more important in the railroad era because railroad lines could be
                    constructed to cross the state almost directly to the new trade centers at 
                        Chicago
                    . Canal workers, mostly Irish immigrants, and railroad workers came
                    to northern Indiana during the building of these trade routes and some stayed to
                    operate them. Many of these workers bought farms along the way, and other
                    pioneers soon came to take advantage of these new means of transportation.
            The early pioneers and the later settlers accepted little from the new region
                    except the natural resources and the freedom offered by the frontier. They
                    brought with them most  of their political,
                    social, and religious institutions, some of which were modified in the
                    adjustment to frontier life. For the religious historian the most important fact
                    in the history of the Northwest Territory was liberty, that disestablishment of
                    religion by law which distinguishes America from nearly every other Western
                    nation. This meant, of course, that there would be no state aid to missionaries,
                    church organizations, or denominational schools. On the other hand, it gave to
                    the pioneers themselves and to residents of older communities the obligation to
                    provide all the externals of religion. Equally important, however, for religious
                    groups was the constitutional protection of property and freedom of the press.
                    Each religious organization was free to acquire property for churches and
                    schools and to print and distribute literature propagating its special
                    doctrines. Even in times of stress, such as during the days of the Know Nothing
                    movement, the rise of the American Protective Association, and the heyday of the
                    Ku Klux Klan, these two freedoms, while they could not hinder social ostracism
                    and economic pressure, made it possible for minority religious groups to live
                    and to grow. Later tax exemptions and state subsidy to charitable institutions
                    which handled public charges have aided the growth of some religious
                    institutions. Religious organizations which have provided denominational schools
                    for their own children have done so at their own expense.
            There have been no strictly religious parties in Indiana politics and when
                    religious prejudice has crept into the political battles it has come from social
                    pressures rather than from the law. In this sense social forces have been even
                    more important than the political element in the religious history of northern
                    Indiana. Probably the most important social factor in the religious organization
                    of any new region arises from the diverse origins of its people.8 This is true even today, although the waning of foreign immigration has
                    limited this factor primarily to the problem of domestic 
                  
                     8 See Thomas T. McAvoy, The History
                                of the Catholic Church in the 
                                    South Bend
                                 Area (
                                South Bend
                            , 1953), a printing of a lecture given in 1953 which hints
                            at these factors in the 
                                South Bend
                             region. There are two especially useful Master's
                            essays on file at the University of Notre Dame treating population
                            problems in the 
                                South Bend
                             area: Joseph W. Swastek, "The Polish Settlement in 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 1860–1914" (1941); and
                            Anthony Kuharich, "Population Movements of 
                                South Bend
                            , 1820–1930" (1941). There is a growing
                            list of centenary parish publications of varying historical
                        value.
               
                     migrations. Immigrants from Protestant
                    regions such as early New 
                        England
                     and the southern states, or from 
                        Scotland
                     or 
                        England
                    , tended to be Protestant, and the quality of their religious life
                    on the frontier depended to a great extent on aid from the mother churches or
                    adaptation to frontier circumstances where such aid was lacking. Immigrants from
                    Roman Catholic countries such as 
                        Ireland
                     and 
                        Poland
                     or from the English Catholic settlements of 
                        Maryland
                     or 
                        Kentucky
                     tended to be Roman Catholic and to grow or decline with the ability
                    of the mother churches to care for them. These tendencies are also true of the
                    religious activities of the later Negro immigrants to the region. Also important
                    were the previous religious fervor and the circumstances surrounding the
                    migration. The Irish joined in the construction of new canals and railroads
                    because they were for the most part unskilled workers and poor. Few of the early
                    Irish became farmers. Many of the German immigrants, however, had the means to
                    buy farm land. The Poles began in the region as marginal farmers but later
                    arrivals became a factory population. Most of the later immigrant groups of the
                    northeastern part of Indiana came directly as mill workers. To become an
                    independent farmer the migrant had to have previous farming experience and the
                    means to buy and exploit the fertile land. Capital was even more necessary to
                    open a store or start a factory.
            It has been noted that the Irish workers on the canals and railroads frequently
                    did not bring with them their womenfolk. This condition undoubtedly contributed
                    to the roughness of life in the workers' camps. The pioneer from the
                    older established regions tended to move west with his entire family and the
                    presence of children brought along the problems of education and schools. John
                    D. Barnhart has called attention to the average youthfulness of the early
                        pioneer.9 In many cases the husband came alone until he
                    could afford to return for his family. On the frontier the women tended to be
                    more faithful to religious practice than men. The farmer adjusted easily to
                    family life and to the social life of the rural church, the later urban worker
                    less so. An unexplored factor in religious growth that is recognized is the
                    failure of the American Irish to reproduce themselves, 
                  
                     9 Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana From
                                Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth, II,
                        178–179.
               
                     despite the incidence of large families
                    among them.10 It is in the home that the youth learns his
                    religious duties of daily prayer and intimate practices of faith. This
                    indoctrination has been strengthened by the religious parish school or by the
                    Sunday school. In more recent decades the breakdown of this compact religious
                    life in the change from the rural home to the urban apartment and the heavily
                    populated neighborhood11 has been noted but not evaluated.
            Class distinctions were not too important in the history of the Middle West.
                    Hoosiers have had no hereditary nobles. Indiana people have in general been
                    lower middle or just plain lower class, but wealth and the social attainments of
                    wealth have been the dividing lines more than some social historians like to
                    admit. The Hoosier novelists are better witnesses here. Also, the desire to be a
                    member of the religious group dominant in any community has been a significant
                    factor in changes in denomination—but a factor hard to measure. It is
                    sometimes complicated with the desire to get away from foreign language groups
                    and peasant origins. More important for the maintenance of religious practices
                    were the organizations in which the people concentrated their social activities.
                    In the nineteenth century these societies, especially among foreign language
                    groups, were probably more vital because other amusements were lacking. While
                    political parties have had little influence on religion because of the
                    separation of church and state, it is also true that religious faith was an
                    important factor in elections and in social standing. The ratio of English to
                    non-English and Protestant to Catholic varies noticeably between the eastern and
                    western counties of the diocese. Prejudices against Germans in the two World
                    Wars was scarcely perceptible. Anti-semitism has not been pronounced except as
                    an element in the Ku Klux Klan of the 1920's. Where the immigrants of
                    any national group in any locality were of one religious denomination and banded
                    together for political favor, politics could be said to be intermingled with
                    religious history.
            Regional differences as they affect religion are not very 
                  
                     10 John A. O'Brien (ed.), The Vanishing Irish: The Enigma of the Modern World (
                                New York
                            , 1953). Carl Wittke, The Irish in America (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , 1956), is less concerned with this social characteristic.
                  
                     11 Will Herberg has discussed the common qualities
                            of recent religious movements in his Protestant, Catholic,
                                Jew, An Essay in American Religious Sociology (
                                New York
                            , 1956).
               
                     striking in the diocese of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , although the variety in soil fertility has affected population
                    movements. Within the diocese there are no differences of mountains and plain;
                    the chief distinction is between urban and rural. In some rural communities and
                    in factory towns certain non-English immigrants have established colonies, but
                    immigrants seldom have the dominant roles in the large communities.
            The all-embracing rural parish of 
                        France
                     has not existed in this country generally, yet in the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     diocese there are a few rural communities in which a common
                    religious faith among nearly all the inhabitants has made the parish or the
                    church an important social as well as religious center. This has been
                    particularly true of the Catholic foreign language groups for whom the parish
                    hall has been the headquarters of most societies and social functions. It has
                    also been true in the Mennonite communities and in certain other Protestant
                    communities. The urban community and the industrialized regions in the
                    northwestern part of the state present quite a different picture from the
                    eastern area. Where large groups of one or another nationality congregated in a
                    region, church unity has been pronounced. As the language barrier has been
                    increasingly overcome, many in these groups have tended to mix with other groups
                    and intermarry, and gradually the old-world rural village idea with the village
                    church as its center has tended to disappear. In recent years the growth of
                    church membership, complicated by the breakdown of church social control over
                    its members, has been recognized as accompanying urbanization and
                    industrialization. Important factors in these religious modifications have been
                    the improvement in education and the attempt to educate for urban life.
            Individual circumstances and opportunity have also influenced religious history.
                    The circumstance of a man's birth is important because the child tends
                    to embrace the religion of his parents. Furthermore education in a religious
                    atmosphere, whether in a religious community or a religious school, is bound to
                    have its effect on the individual. So also the elimination of religious
                    influences in education is bound to have its effect. School consolidation, the
                    increase in high school and college attendance—all these affect the
                    religious life of the community and the individual. Local customs are
                    undoubtedly more important in the rural village than in the  city, but the compactness of city life also makes
                    for greater uniformity in habits. The choice of livelihood after leaving the
                    parental home is also an important personal factor.
            Another social factor that varies from time to time is the moral or religious
                    tone of a period. Historians note periods of religious revival and decline. Thus
                    the "Victorian Era" refers not just to the years in which
                    Victoria ruled 
                        England
                     but to a certain complex of moral attitudes which governed the
                    social life of the country. Again, Spencerian sociology and Darwinism have
                    affected religious life,12 at least among those who have
                    received a higher education. So also theological "modernism"
                    affected the religious life of the American people through the acceptance or
                    rejection of "modernism" by the clergy. The recent return to
                    religion shown by greatly increased church membership must be considered a group
                    phenomenon yet it has an effect on the individual.
            In closely organized groups like the Roman Catholics changes in church
                    regulations, for example those which brought about the more frequent reception
                    of the Eucharist and the advocacy of lay movements such as Catholic Action, have
                    had considerable influence though with local variations. Among Protestants
                    evangelists and social-religious organizations have been important. Some
                    churches lay greater stress on revivalism than do others. Modern media of
                    communication, improved living conditions, and new amusements have also affected
                    the religious life of individuals in many ways.
            To apply all of these factors to the religious history of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     diocese seems an endless task. Consequently the historian must
                    limit his study by recognizing the limitations of his sources and by endeavoring
                    to attain the more likely goals. He must first gather all available religious
                    statistics. Much information must be gathered for the first time. He must study
                    the census reports for useful social and economic data. He must search local
                    histories, biographical accounts, and records of local depositories. The
                    material which he finds will fall chiefly into two categories: 
                  
                     12 Harvey 
                                Wish
                            , Society and Thought in America (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1951–1952), II, Society and
                                Thought in Modern America (1952), chapter 13, treats of the
                            effects of the theory of evolution on the thought of the country.
                            Richard Hofstadter, Social Darwinism in American
                            Thought (rev. ed., 
                                Boston
                            , 1955), also treats this in chapter five.
               
                     first, population data—economic,
                    political, and social statistics; and second, religious statistics so localized
                    as to be related to the other data. The historian must also correlate these
                    statistics with the general history of the region.
            The history of the Roman Catholic diocese of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     divides itself into distinct periods which are for the most part
                    easily associated with social and economic changes. Changes in other religious
                    groups follow similar patterns.
            Exclusive of the religious life of the Indians before the white man came, the
                    first period of religious history in northern Indiana was a period of missionary
                    visitations first to the Indian population and later to the fur traders and
                    agents of the government.13 Because of the nomadic character
                    of the Indians and the transitory establishments of the fur traders and
                    frontiersmen, information for the period before 1840 is necessarily scant,
                    especially for religious activities. For the most part the Potawatomi had been
                    removed from the region by the 1840's, the Miami of the 
                        Wabash
                     by 1850.
            The second period, beginning about 1840 and extending to the regular functioning
                    of the diocese of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     by approximately 1860, probably is best described as a period of
                    permanent missions. In the present diocese of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , organized in 1857, the most important Roman Catholic mission was
                    Ste. Marie des Lacs north of 
                        South Bend
                     which later became the educational center of Notre Dame.14 From there missionaries traveled through all northern
                    Indiana and southwestern 
                        Michigan
                    .15 Even before 1840 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and 
                        Logansport
                     were also centers of missionary activity. Protestant groups, more
                    numerous and less dependent on formal organization, multiplied more quickly and
                    could be found in nearly every community. Both Protestants and Catholics soon
                    multiplied their centers of missionary work. But the scattering of the pioneers
                    in search of good lands made regular attendance by even the best traveled
                    missionaries quite impossible. As a result some of the pioneers retained their
                        
                  
                     13 The accounts of the French and other Catholic
                            missionaries to the Indians in Indiana have been told in R. G. Thwaites
                            (ed.) Jesuit Relations and Allied Documents (73 vols., 
                                Cleveland
                            , 1896–1901), and in the Annales de
                                la Propagation de la foi (
                                Paris
                            , 1822–1889).
                  
                     14 William McNamara, The Catholic
                                Church on the Northern Indiana Frontier 1789–1844. (
                                Washington
                            , 1931), and McAvoy, The Catholic Church in
                                Indiana, deal with the pre-diocesan history of Notre Dame.
                  
                     15 See McAvoy, McNamara. Schroeder, and Alerding
                            for these activities. They need to be related again in a new
                        unity.
               
                     faith until regular services of their fold
                    could be established but some never renewed their contact with the parent
                    religious organizations. Bishop Simon Bruté of 
                        Vincennes
                    , after visiting the state in 1835,16 estimated
                    that one-third of the population did not belong to any particular religious
                    denomination. Those who felt the need of some religious organization tended to
                    join the nearest available church, frequently Methodist, Baptist, or
                    Presbyterian.
            During this period the number of Catholic clergy increased chiefly by arrivals
                    from Europe and the number of Protestant clergy by arrivals chiefly from the
                    east and south. Long before the Civil War formal religious organizations were
                    supervising the spiritual life of the people of northern Indiana. One important
                    factor which delayed the population movements of northern Indiana was the
                    swampland area in the northwestern part of the state. This area, which has since
                    become rich and productive, the less fertile lands in the 
                        St. Joseph
                     valley, and the lack of mineral resources all played their part in
                    making northwestern Indiana a section different from central and southern
                    Indiana. With the growth of industry a change is also noticeable in the people
                    of the region. At first the immigrants were chiefly from the middle and eastern
                    states and almost none were from Europe. Recent studies of the origins of the
                    residents of the area by Elfrieda Lang17 have shown a
                    remarkable percentage of people from 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in these northern counties in the 1850's. The northeastern
                    counties, however, were an expansion of 
                        Michigan
                    , "the greater 
                        New York
                    ." The region about 
                        Fort Wayne
                     became part of the heavy German immigration that straddled the 
                        Ohio
                    -Indiana state line south of the Maumee-
                        Wabash
                     area.
            The third period in the history of the region is harder to delimit. It is a
                    period of population growth and industrialization beginning with the canal era
                    and the first railroads, for with the railroads came the beginnings of real
                        
                  
                     16 Thomas T. McAvoy, "Bishop
                            Bruté's Report to 
                                Rome
                             in 1836," Catholic Historical
                            Review, XXIX (1943), 177–233, and documents in Bishop
                            Bruté's handwriting in the 
                                Vincennes
                             collection in the Archives of the University of Notre Dame.
                  
                     17 Elfrieda Lang, "An Analysis of
                            Northern Indiana's Population in 1850," Indiana Magazine of History, XLIX (1953), 17–60;
                            "Ohioans in Northern Indiana before 1850," ibid., XLIX (1953), 391–404;
                            "Southern Migration to Northern Indiana before 1850,"
                                ibid., L (1954), 349–356;
                            "Irishmen in Northern Indiana before 1850," Mid-America, XXXVI (1954), 190–198.
               
                     manufacturing to the region. Perhaps an
                    acceptable closing time for the era of migrations would be the beginning of
                    World War I. As a whole this period witnessed the growth of innumerable towns in
                    Indiana, many of which failed in their dreams of becoming large municipalities.
                    This is a period of religious expansion in which churches were built and
                    parishes and congregations multiplied and in which religious practice was taken
                    as a badge of civic respectability. Despite recurring depressions, bank
                    failures, and other financial problems, optimism was constant,18 reaching its climax perhaps in the Progressive Era in which even
                    Hoosiers such as Albert J. Beveridge began to think of world conquests.
            During this period foreign immigrants arrived in great numbers to work in the
                    established industries, in the new factories, and in the later steel mills.
                    Foreign groups speaking a common language were for the most part enclaves in the
                    larger population and in many cases the church was the social as well as the
                    religious center of such a group. Outside of the major religious organizations
                    there seems to have been a shuffling of religious memberships and a gradual
                    decline in religious practices among people who spent their days in factories
                    and mills. Roughly, though, at the turn of the century, most of the population
                    could be classified into the religious groups to which they belonged when they
                    came into the region, whether they were active or only nominal members.
            The movement from the farm to the city increased in momentum, for the wages of
                    farm help could not compete with the higher industrial wages. Some Indiana
                    industries merely moved to the larger cities or other areas, though many small
                    town industries remained. Some industries grew into towering corporations while
                    other smaller factories closed their doors. The founding of the steel mills of
                    Gary and vicinity was perhaps the most important factor in the population
                    movements of the recent decades. Railroads encountered stiff competition from
                    automobiles, trucks, and paved roads and the means of communication increasingly
                    improved. Perhaps no section of Indiana underwent these changes more completely
                    or more rapidly than the northwestern parts.
            
               
                  18 Richard Hofstadter, The Age of Reform,
                            From Bryan to F.D.R. (
                            New York
                        , 1955), has many suggestions for further study, especially in
                        chapter four, "The Status Revolution and Progressive
                        Leaders."
            
            
            The continued industrialization and urbanization had important repercussions on
                    the religious life of the people. The churches tried to follow their people, to
                    care for the children deprived of the comparative security of farm life, to
                    provide a social life for the people whose homes were apartments and whose
                    education was limited. Language barriers began to break down, rural customs
                    brought over from Europe disappeared, greater wealth brought new standards of
                    living. After World War I it can be said in one sense that the population of
                    Indiana began to settle down, for movement to the West had tapered off, but in
                    another sense the movement to the cities created a new mobility. Church
                    buildings increased but whether the churches have been able to keep pace with a
                    mobile population and the latest diversions, such as television, is open to
                    question. To determine these factors is the chief problem facing the historian
                    who tries to follow religious trends into the twentieth century.
            In studying the history of religion in the eighteen counties constituting the
                    present diocese of 
                        Fort Wayne
                     the historian will have to remember certain special factors. In the
                    first place, the state and the diocese are only artificial divisions, with
                    little foundation in geographical lines. This artificiality was emphasized in
                    the building of the railroads and their impact on the region. The existence of 
                        Chicago
                     as a market and a railroad center further de-emphasizes the local
                    geographical factors; but the concentration on steel manufactures at lake ports
                    near Gary has a geographical basis. Finally, financial concentration and the
                    means of communication which created the metropolitan center of 
                        Chicago
                     determined in many ways the development of the northwestern
                    counties of Indiana. 
                        Fort Wayne
                     has in a way its own story as a center of trade and population. The
                    northeastern counties and most counties in the 
                        Wabash
                     valley are mainly agricultural regions.
            The facts that can be garnered seem almost endless, but order can be induced into
                    them. History is representative by nature and is never adequate. The Le Bras
                    method, while needing adaptation to the Indiana setting, can give the historian
                    who is careful in collecting and fitting together his facts an acceptable story
                    of religion in the diocese of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . That it will glorify religion or indicate at least a partial
                    failure is not the concern of this type of history because religion has a value
                    independent of its acceptance or rejection by the people.
         
         
         
            Documents
            Lieutenant Governor Henry Hamilton's Apologia
            
                    Edited by John D. Barnhart
                    *
                
            When Henry Hamilton, Lieutenant Governor of 
                        Detroit
                     and director of Indian warfare against the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley frontier, undertook an expedition against George Rogers
                    Clark, he was forced to surrender to Clark at 
                        Vincennes
                     on February 24, 1779. Although Clark's earlier reference
                    to Hamilton as the "Hair-Buyer General" did not express his
                    final estimate of the man,1 the name stuck to Hamilton in
                    the 
                        United States
                    . The imprisonment of the Lieutenant Governor in 
                        Virginia
                     was justified by Governor Thomas Jefferson because of the barbarous
                    warfare Hamilton had directed against the frontier of 
                        Virginia
                    .2 On his return to 
                        England
                     in 1781, Hamilton felt obligated to defend himself because of the
                    charge of waging cruel warfare and because his expedition had failed.
            His first duty after his return to 
                        England
                     was to report to his immediate superior, Governor Frederick
                    Haldimand. This was accomplished by a "Report … on His
                    Proceedings from November, 1776 to June, 1781," which has been
                    published at least four times.3 Several months later, on
                    April 9, 
                  
                     * John D. Barnhart is a professor in
                            the history department, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana. Professor Barnhart was editor of the Indiana Magazine of History from 1941 to 1955.
                  
                     1 George Rogers Clark to Patrick Henry, February
                            3, 1779, 
                                Kaskaskia
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            , in James A. James (ed.), George Rogers Clark
                                Papers, 1771–1781, 
                                Illinois
                             State Historical Library Collections,
                            VIII (
                                Springfield
                            , 
                                Illinois
                            , 1912), 97. Clark seems to have thought better of Hamilton
                            after he met him. Ibid., 114–154,
                            208–302, especially 289.
                  
                     2 Thomas Jefferson to the Governor of 
                                Canada
                            , Williamsburgh, 
                                Virginia
                            , July 22, 1779, in Paul L. Ford (ed.), The
                                Writings of Thomas Jefferson (9 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1892–1898), II, 246–248. The letter
                            is also printed in William P. Palmer (ed.), Calendar of 
                                    Virginia
                                 State Papers (11 vols., 
                                Richmond
                            , 
                                Virginia
                            , 1875–1893), I, 321–324. For a brief
                            treatment of the subject see John D. Barnhart (ed.), Henry
                                Hamilton and George Rogers Clark in the American Revolution (
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, 1951), 88–102.
                  
                     3 Historical Manuscripts Commission, Report on the Manuscripts of Mrs. Stopford-Sackville, of 
                                    Dayton
                                 House, Northamptonshire (2 vols., Hereford, 
                                England
                            . 1910), II, 223–248; 
                        
                                    Michigan
                                 Pioneer and Historical Collections (40 vols.,
                            Lansing, 
                                Michigan
                            , 1874–1929), IX (1886), 489–516;
                            James, George Rogers Clark Papers,
                            1771–1781, pp. 174–207; Milo M. Quaife, The Capture of Old 
                                    Vincennes
                                
                      (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1927), 172–220. 172–220.
               
                     1782, he wrote a letter, probably to Lord
                    Shelburne, explaining his direction of Indian warfare and the reasons for the
                    failure of his campaign against Clark. In the meantime Lord Cornwallis had
                    surrendered, Lord North had resigned, and the Marquis of Rockingham had formed a
                    new cabinet in which Lord Shelburne had become Secretary of State in charge of
                    the colonies. The letter was followed by Hamilton's appointment as
                    Lieutenant Governor of Quebec. Largely because the details which he had given in
                    his "Report" are omitted and the letter directed particularly
                    to explaining his conduct of Indian warfare and the 
                        Vincennes
                     campaign, it takes on the character of self-defense. Towards the
                    end of the letter, his description of his harsh treatment by 
                        Virginia
                     is almost a plea for sympathy. That this letter should remain
                    unpublished seems to deny him the right to be heard in his own defense.
            The employment of the Indians against the frontiers of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    , and 
                        Kentucky
                     is placed in a more favorable light by this letter. In it he
                    mentions that the Indians had applied to him for permission to make war upon the
                    western border as soon as he arrived in 
                        Detroit
                    . He refused this request because of lack of authority, but on June
                    16, 1777, he received an order from Lord George Germain, the Secretary of State
                    in charge of the colonies, to send the Indians under white leaders to attack the
                    frontiers. He also described his instructions to the participants in the
                    expeditions before they left 
                        Detroit
                    . "No party was sent out without one or more white persons,
                    who had orders and instructions in writing to attend to the behaviour of the
                    Indians, protect defenceless persons and prevent any insult or barbarity being
                    exercised on the Prisoners. … I constantly addressed the Indians
                    pointing out to them the advantage which must in future result to them, from
                    sparing the lives of their prisoners." At least one instance of good
                    treatment for which there is corroborating evidence was cited. Moreover, the 350
                    Indians who accompanied him on his expedition treated the people of 
                        Vincennes
                     very well although they could have been quite cruel.
            Although Hamilton did not mention it in this letter, the Indians were of no help
                    to him when he was attacked by Clark at 
                        Vincennes
                    . They were skillful in scouting duties, preventing information from
                    reaching Clark or 
                        Kentucky
                    ,  but when 
                        Vincennes
                     was besieged they had either gone home or were scattered elsewhere.
            The contribution of the French villagers of 
                        Vincennes
                    , and the 
                        Illinois
                     Country to Clark's victory is also stressed in his letter.
                    It attributes to the French the sending of information to Clark, the concealment
                    of powder which was afterwards delivered to Clark and used by him, and finally
                    of fighting with "the rebels" when the fort was attacked. He
                    mentions the defection of the French militia in the fort when Clark demanded its
                    surrender, a defection which reduced Hamilton's force to thirty men.
            This manuscript may help in evaluating Governor Hamilton, for it indicates that
                    he was not only opposed to a daring and brilliant young Virginian but that he
                    had placed dependence upon a body of Indians who failed him at the crucial point
                    and upon French villagers who had not forgotten their mother country and who
                    only waited an opportunity to square accounts with the English who had conquered
                    New 
                        France
                    . The Franco-American Alliance, which Clark but not Hamilton knew
                    about, was a most influential force in the West. However much
                    Hamilton's direction of Indian warfare may be regretted, the honesty of
                    his writings forces us to recognize that he earnestly endeavored to lessen the
                    cruelty of the warriors.
            The original letter is in the Shelburne Papers in the William L. Clements
                    Library, 
                        Ann Arbor
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    . It is published with the permission of Howard H. Peckham,
                    Director. It is in Hamilton's handwriting, but the title of the letter
                    which appears on the reverse side of the last page is in another's
                    handwriting.
            Narrative of the Case [of] Henry Hamilton who in 1775 was
                    appoi[nted] Lt. Gov. & Superintendent at 
                        Detroit
                    .
            
                    
                  
                     
                        My Lord
                        A consideration of the weighty occupations your Lordship must
                                    have been engaged in since your coming into Administration has
                                    prevented my making an earlyer application, and the unsettled
                                    state of public busyness for some weeks past has been such, that
                                    I could not expect your Lordship to have any knowledge of my
                                    situation, unless I hazarded this method of laying it before
                                    your Lordship
                        
                        Should the following account appear too concise a fuller and more
                                    minute detail shall be ready for your Lordship's
                                    perusal at a very short notice, as I found means to preserve a
                                    diary of Transactions,4 and other papers
                                    necessary to exculpate myself from the charges which usually are
                                    laid upon a person who has had the misfortune to fail, in an
                                    enterprize whose success might reasonably be expected.
                        In the year 1775 I was honored with a commission of Lieutenant
                                    Governor and Superintendent of 
                                        Detroit
                                    .
                        I repaired without loss of time to Quebec and was sent up to 
                                        Detroit
                                     in September by His Excellency General Carleton,5 with orders for the different posts in the
                                    upper Country.
                        On the 9th of November I arrived at 
                                        Detroit
                                    , and was almost immediately applyed to by the
                                    Indians for permission to make war upon the
                                    frontiers—
                        This I could not comply with, not having had orders for it, but
                                    while I deterr'd the Indians from making war, I wrote
                                    to Fort Pitt where the Rebels had a garrison cautioning them
                                    against suffering their hunters to pass into the Indian Country,
                                    as it would probably bring on a War with them.
                        In the Month of June 1777 I received orders and instructions for
                                    employing the Indians, and appointing the proper persons to act
                                    as interpreters for the different nations.6
                        
                        No party was sent out without one or more white persons, who had
                                    orders and instructions in writing to attend to the behavior of
                                    the Indians, protect defenceless persons and prevent any insult
                                    or barbarity being exercised on the Prisoners—
                        
                           
                              4 See "A New Diary of
                                        Lieutenant-Governor Henry Hamilton," in the 
                                            Missouri
                                         Historical Society Bulletin,
                                        XII (
                                            St. Louis
                                        , 1955–1956), 10–24, for
                                        one of Hamilton's diaries. The journal printed in
                                        Barnhart, Hamilton and Clark,
                                        102–205, is a revised form of Hamilton's
                                        diary.
                           
                              5 Guy Carleton was governor of 
                                            Canada
                                         from 1767 to 1778 when he was succeeded by
                                        General Frederick Haldimand.
                           
                              6 Note that Hamilton claimed to have
                                        deterred the Indians from making war on the frontiers from
                                        the date of his arrival at 
                                            Detroit
                                         until he received an order in June 1777 to
                                        employ them. The order is contained in George Germain to
                                        Carleton, Whitehall, March 26, 1777, Canadian Archives, Q
                                        15, 233–236, and in 
                                            Michigan
                                         Pioneer Collections, IX,
                                        346–348. Germain stated that Hamilton had
                                        suggested using the Indians, but such a suggestion has not
                                        been found. See Barnhart. Hamilton and
                                        Clark, 28–29.
                        
                        
                        Before any parties were sent out, I constantly addressed the
                                    Indians pointing out to them the advantages which must in future
                                    result to them, from sparing the lives of their prisoners, who
                                    whenever a peace should take place would testify to their
                                    humanity and be successfull mediators between the Americans and
                                        themselves.7 The frequent conferences I
                                    had with these people, the personal knowledge I had gained of
                                    their chiefs and principal speakers, and the influence which the
                                    liberality of government gave me with them, effected that change
                                    in their manner of carrying on an Indian war, which was rather
                                    to be wished than expected.
                        A bare assertion of this from a person who has been taxed in a
                                    number of publications with the commission of the most horrid
                                    cruelties, might justly be suspected of wanting truth for its
                                    support, but the notoriety of the following circumstances may
                                    acquit me to the Public and relieve me from the load of odium
                                    that I have endured for a very long time, unable to assert and
                                    evince my own innocence.
                        The first party of Indians which I had sent on a scout brought in
                                    seven prisoners, who were immediately delivered up to me and had
                                    provision cloathing and lodging provided for them—
                        between the Month of June 1777, and the Month of October 1778,
                                    one hundred and twenty nine persons were brought into 
                                        Detroit
                                     by the Indian parties not one of whom did, or could
                                    complain of the cruelty of the Indians or want of tenderness and
                                    generosity in their employers—
                        A Major and thirty seven Americans with their arms fell into the
                                    hands of a party of Indians, not one of whom was put to death,
                                    and this very officer having escaped from them, had the
                                    generosity to go to Williamsburgh at the time I was confined in
                                    a dungeon there to remonstrate against the injustice and
                                    inhumanity of the Governor and Council of 
                                        Virginia
                                    —8
                        
                        
                           
                              7 "G[overnor] H[amilton] then
                                        as upon several other occasions recommended it to all the
                                        Nations to remember they were men, & were desired to
                                        make war against men, and not against women or children, and
                                        to forbear to dip their hands in the blood of the two
                                        latter." "Extract from the Council held at 
                                            Detroit
                                        , 17th June 1777," in Reuben G.
                                        Thwaites and Louise P. Kellogg (eds.), Frontier
                                            Defense on the Upper 
                                                Ohio
                                            , 1777–1778 (
                                            Madison
                                        , 
                                            Wisconsin
                                        , 1912), 7–13.
                           
                                        
                                 8 Note the following from Life and Adventures of Colonel Daniel Boon
                                                … written by Himself (
                                                Brooklyn
                                            , 1823), 17–18, which first
                                            appeared
                                    
                        
                        
                        When I had possession of St. 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , I had with me 350 Indians of different nations.9 The inhabitants who had laid down their
                                    arms were exposed to every extremity Had not the Indians behaved
                                    with a moderation perhaps unknown since the discovery of their
                                    Country—
                        These few instances will I hope suffice My Lord, to show that I
                                    had used my endeavors to win these people to act with
                                    moderation, and that those endeavors were not unsuccessful.
                        On the 6th of August I had the first accounts of the Rebels
                                    having got possession of the Ilinois, and carryed away the
                                    Commandant Monsieur de Rochblave.10
                        
                        
                           
                                        in Filson's History of 
                                                  Kentucky
                                                
                                 ; see John Filson, Histoire de Kentucke … (
                                                Paris
                                            , 1785), 75–77.
                                        "January 1, 1778. I went with thirty men to the
                                            Blue Licks, on Licking river, to make salt for the
                                            different garrisons.
                                        "February 7th. Hunting by myself, to procure
                                            meat for the company, I met a party of 102 Indians and
                                            two Frenchmen, marching against Boonsborough. They
                                            pursued and took me; and next day I capitulated for my
                                            men, knowing they could not escape. They were 27 in
                                            number, three having gone home with salt. The Indians,
                                            according to the capitulation, used us generously. They
                                            carried us to Old Chelicothe, the principal Indian town
                                            on Little Miami.
                                        "On the 18th of February we arrived there, after
                                            an uncomfortable journey, in very severe weather.
                                        "On the 10th of March, I and ten of my men were
                                            conducted to 
                                                Detroit
                                            .
                                        "On the 30th, we arrived there, and were treated
                                            by governour Hamilton, the British commander at that
                                            post, with great humanity.
                                        "The Indians had such an affection for me, that
                                            they refused 100£ sterling offered them by
                                            the governor, if they would leave me with the others, on
                                            purpose that he might send me home on my parole. Several
                                            English gentlemen there, sensible on my adverse fortune,
                                            and touched with sympathy offered to supply my wants,
                                            which I declined with many thanks, adding that I never
                                            expected it would be in my power to recompence such
                                            unmerited generosity. The Indians left my men in
                                            captivity with the British at 
                                                Detroit
                                            ."
                                        For a more recent account with some less humane details,
                                            see John Bakeless, Daniel 
                                                  Boone
                                                
                                  (
                                                New York
                                            , 1939), 156–177.
                                    
                           
                              9 This manuscript is the only place in
                                        which Hamilton stated the number of Indians with him at 
                                            Vincennes
                                        . He started from 
                                            Detroit
                                         with 70 and attracted others to his standard as
                                        he journeyed to 
                                            Vincennes
                                        .
                           
                              10 Phillippe Francois Rastel, Sieur de
                                        Rochblave, was appointed British agent in the 
                                            Illinois
                                         villages by Captain Hugh Lord when he was
                                        recalled in the spring of 1776. The inhabitants treated
                                        Rochblave as commandant and judge, but the British would
                                        allow him little money beyond his salary. He was captured by
                                        Clark, treated rather harshly, and sent as a prisoner to 
                                            Virginia
                                        . His slaves were sold and the money distributed
                                        among Clark's soldiers. Governor Patrick Henry and
                                        the Council instructed Clark to restore the seized property
                                        to Mrs. Rochblave if possible and if not to furnish her with
                                        necessary funds. Later Rochblave escaped from prison in 
                                            Virginia
                                        .
                        
                        
                        It appeared to me expedient to attack them as soon as possible,
                                    & before they should be reinforced, or have time to
                                    engage the Indians in their interest
                        having therefore dispatched expresses with the account to the
                                    Commander in chief at Quebec,11 and to the
                                    officers commanding the several posts in the upper country, I
                                    used all possible expedition for putting in immediate execution,
                                    the orders I might receive from the General.
                        The 7th of October having received His Excellency's
                                    permission I set out with the following small force. One
                                    Lieutenant fireworker, two Matrosses with one six pounder one
                                    Lieutenant 2 Sarjeants 30 rank and file of the 8th Regt one
                                    Captain one Lieut. 3 Serjeants 40 private Volunteers Two
                                    Captains 4 Lieuts. 60 private volunteer Militia Seventy Indians
                                    with their Officers and Interpreters.12 We
                                    had not craft for greater numbers, having to transport 97,000
                                    pounds weight of Provisions, ammunition & stores.
                        I shall not take up your Lordships time with enumerating the
                                    difficulties and delays of an unusual progress mostly by water,
                                    but rendered next to impracticable by a long drought, nor recite
                                    the various means of conciliating the Indians of different
                                    nations jealous of each other and fearful of the Americans,
                                    having surprised and taken prisoner the reconnoitring party sent
                                    by the officer commanding for Congress at St. 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , I found their report to agree with the
                                    intelligence I had got at Ouiattanon,13 and
                                    that the place was 
                              
                                 11 Hamilton to Carleton, 
                                                Detroit
                                            , August 8, 1778, in Canadian Archives, B
                                            121, 121, and B 122, 115; and Hamilton to Germain,
                                            undated, in ibid., Q 15,
                                            231–232. The latter is printed in 
                                                Illinois
                                             Historical Library Collections, I, 330–331. The greeting,
                                            "My Lord," should have prevented the
                                            editor from assuming that it was written to Carleton.
                              
                                 12 Hamilton appears to have
                                            depended upon his memory for these figures. They are
                                            substantially correct, but a report of his dated
                                            September 30, 1778, gives slightly different figures.
                                            His statement of the artillery and the regulars of the
                                            Eighth Regiment is the same in both places. The
                                            Volunteers are, however, given in the report as 1
                                            captain, 1 lieutenant, 3 sergeants, and 35 privates. The
                                            Volunteer Militia are given in the report as 1 major, 3
                                            captains, 4 lieutenants, 1 adjutant, 1 quartermaster, 1
                                            surgeon, 4 sergeants, and 71 privates. Including the
                                            artillery and the regulars, the force included 23
                                            officers and 138 men. In addition, 70 Indians and 14
                                            officers of the British Indian department accompanied
                                            the expedition. See 
                                                Michigan
                                             Pioneer Collections, IX,
                                            484–485. For Governor Frederick
                                            Haldimand's letter, see Haldimand to Hamilton,
                                            Montreal, August 26, 1778, in 
                                                Michigan
                                             Pioneer Collections, IX,
                                            402–404. See also Barnhart, Hamilton and Clark, 39–40.
                              
                                 13 Ouiatenon was one of the early
                                            French trading posts and forts. It was located on the
                                            west bank of the 
                                                Wabash
                                             River below the mouth of the 
                                                Tippecanoe
                                             River, and about four miles south of the
                                            modern city of 
                                                Lafayette
                                            , Indiana. Near it lived the Wea or
                                            Ouiatenon Indians.
                           
                                     not in a state of defence,
                                    to prevent therefore the excesses of the Indians now increased
                                    to about 350, I sent Major Hay with a detachment to take
                                    possession of the Post, and parties to lay upon the roads at
                                    some distance from the fort to intercept any messengers who
                                    might be dispatched to carry intelligence to the Ilinois, or to
                                    the Falls of 
                                        Ohio
                                    , where a Fort had lately been erected, and an
                                    establishment of American settlers been formed—
                        With Major Hay I sent the old Chiefs and principal speakers among
                                    the Indians, that they might apprize the inhabitants what
                                    risques the[y] ran if they should pretend to make resistance.
                                    The chiefs were also instructed to acquaint the young warriors
                                    if the inhabitants layd down their arms, that no violence might
                                    be offered them.
                        Major Hay had orders to summon the inhabitants, and to promise
                                    them protection if they layd down their arms and renewed their
                                    Oath of Allegiance.
                        They did accordingly accept these terms and the Officer who
                                    commanded in the Fort for the Congress, being deserted by the
                                    French as well Officers as men who were enrolled in the service
                                    and receive the pay of Congress,14 deliverd
                                    himself up with his Fort on my verbal promise of security to his
                                    person, and this very officer wrote a letter to the Governor and
                                    council of 
                                        Virginia
                                    , unsollicitated, which on my being sent prisoner to 
                                        Williamsburg
                                     he delivered to me with intention it should be of
                                    service, but this with every other testimonial in my favor, was
                                    carefully suppressed—It now became a point of
                                    consideration, whether or not we should prosecute our intended
                                    attack of the Rebels at the Ilinois, distant 240 miles, but a
                                    variety of circumstances united to forbid it. Our ammunition
                                    & provision had been damaged in a winter's
                                    progress of 600 miles,15
                        
                        The Post we had got possession of required to be put in a state
                                    of defence, and was of too much consequence to be 
                              
                                 14 Hamilton was wrong about
                                            Congress; the commander and troops were acting under the
                                            authority of 
                                                Virginia
                                            .
                              
                                 15 Perhaps one should not expect
                                            Hamilton to be accurate in estimating distances. Water
                                            routes are also much longer than direct land routes. His
                                            estimates in this and the following paragraph appear
                                            exaggerated. The land route from 
                                                Vincennes
                                             to 
                                                Kaskaskia
                                             was estimated by General Josiah Harmar in
                                            1787 as 160 miles by a direct route and 170 miles by a
                                            more southerly route. See Military Journal
                                                of Major Ebenezer Denny ( 
                                                Philadelphia
                                             , 1859), 218, or William H. Smith (ed.),
                                                The Life and Public Service of Arthur
                                                St. Claw (2 vols., 
                                                Cincinnati
                                            . 1882), 33.
                           
                                     abandoned, being a station
                                    capable of cutting off communication between the Ilinois and the
                                    falls of 
                                        Ohio
                                    , as well as intercepting supplies from 
                                        New Orleans
                                     to the rebel forts on the Frontiers, further, the
                                    Indians had to return (some of them) 700 miles, to plant corn
                                    for their families in the Spring, and could not be kept together
                                    much longer, and lastly the level country we had to pass was
                                    subject to inundation—We determined then to wait for
                                    the Spring, and the reinforcements which the Commander in Chief
                                    might think proper to send. The Winter was passed in fortifying
                                    the Post, conciliating the different nations of Indians, sending
                                    out parties to gain intelligence and make prisoners, and
                                    building barracks, sinking a well, & carrying on other
                                    necessary works—
                        The French inhabitants who had enjoyed perfect security all this
                                    time, and who had renewed their oath of allegiance in the most
                                    solemn manner, by publicly subscribing in the church the oath
                                    administred, and after kissing the Crucifix, took every occasion
                                    of conveying information to the Rebels at the Ilinois, in spight
                                    of the vigilance of the scouting parties; and tho' I
                                    had taken every precaution to secure the Gunpowder of the
                                    settlement in the King's stores, they contrived to
                                    secret enough to second their treacherous intentions—
                        Seeing then, that I had dismissed almost all the Indians, and two
                                    companies of the Militia, being further assured of the
                                    treacherous disposition of the Canadian company of Volunteers
                                    which composed one half of my little garrison, they informed
                                    Colonel Clarke who commanded at the Ilinois, that they were
                                    ready to join him if he would come and attack Post 
                                        Vincennes
                                    —16
                        
                        By the means of French interpreters who betrayed their trust,
                                    & prevented a party of Indians under their guidance from
                                    making Colonel Clarke and three other officers Prisoners,17 He was enabled to undertake a most
                                    hazardous march, unequalled perhaps in all History the country
                                    being all under water, and arrived within 12 miles of St. 
                                        Vincennes
                                     without an ounce of flour or a single cartridge of
                                    dry powder, with 
                              
                                 16 So far as is known the
                                            information was carried to Clark by Francis Vigo who was
                                            captured by some of Hamilton's men, questioned
                                            and then released by Hamilton. Otherwise, his guards
                                            rather effectively shut off information from 
                                                Kentucky
                                             and the 
                                                Illinois
                                            .
                              
                                 17 This story is substantiated in
                                            part by Clark. See James, George Rogers
                                                Clark Papers, 1771–1781, pp.
                                            132–133, 265–266.
                           
                                     with which articles he was
                                    however supplyed immediately by the Inhabitants—
                        A Party which had been sent after Deserters gave me notice of the
                                    approach of a body of men, on which I sent out an Officer with
                                    twenty men to reconnoitre but the Meadows being flooded, they
                                    were obliged to take a circuit, & we were attacked just
                                    after Sunset by Colonel Clarke and his small force of 180 men
                                    from the Ilinois, joyned by the people of St. 
                                        Vincennes
                                     to a man.
                        During the night they kept up a pretty smart firing and several
                                    of them having rifled pieces, they wounded one Serjeant, one
                                    matross, and 5 private men—
                        At eight in the morning Colonel Clarke sent in a threatening
                                    message by a flag, requiring us to surrender, at discretion,
                                    this was treated as it deserved, & the English men, all
                                    declared their resolution of defending the King's
                                    colors to the last man, rather than abide the mercy of the
                                    Rebels; The French however signifyed a quite contrary
                                    disposition, so that finding those who would act with spirit
                                    reduced to the number of 30, five of which were wounded that
                                    Colonel Clarke was joined by the Inhabitants without the fort,
                                    and had half our little garrison for adherents within I
                                    determined to accept honorable terms if they could be
                                    obtained—
                        While a flag of truce was hung out a party of our Lake Indians
                                    returning from a scout with two prisoners, and seeing the
                                    English flag displayed at the Fort, suspecting nothing
                                    discharged their pieces, and advanced to the Village, they were
                                    13 in number, but being unexpectedly attacked by seventy men
                                    sent against them by Colonel Clarke, some were killed in the
                                    field, the rest brought in bound, were butcher'd in
                                    cold blood, three of them by Colonel Clarke's own hands
                                    in view of the Fort, one only was saved at the interposition of
                                    an American officer who told Colonel Clarke that
                                    Savage's father had formerly saved his life.18 After such a scene we 
                              
                                 18 Lieutenant Jacob Schieffelin of
                                            the Volunteer Militia of 
                                                Detroit
                                            , according to a narrative first published
                                            in 1780, claimed to have been an eyewitness of this
                                            atrocity. Magazine of American
                                            History, I (1877), 186–193. Hamilton did
                                            not claim to have seen this incident. A resident of 
                                                Vincennes
                                             informed him of it a few days after the
                                            surrender. Hamilton also suggested that C'ark
                                            told him something of it. See Barnhart, Hamilton and Clark, 182–183. Isador
                                            Chene, Account brought in from Post 
                                                Vincennes
                                            , Draper Mss, 58 J 15–18. and
                                            Haldimand Papers, B122, 337–340, confirms the
                                            killing of the Indians but not Clark's
                                            participation.
                           
                                     had little hope of being
                                    very secure in a capitulation, however in the course of two
                                    different parleys with Colonel Clarke I procured honorable terms
                                    for the Garrison, how they were observed would lead into two
                                    minute a detail.
                        A fews days after the surrender of the fort, twenty-seven of us
                                    were put into a heavy oak boat with 7 oars, and having received
                                    ten days provision of salt pork and flour, and fifteen Gallons
                                    of Spirits for ourselves and our Guard consisting of two
                                    officers & 23 men we were obliged to work our way 400
                                    miles by Water, to the falls of 
                                        Ohio
                                    , thence marched across the Country 800 miles
                                    more—I omit the particulars of this march, which was
                                    at least as dangerous as fatigueing, owing to the prepossessions
                                    of the Country people against us. On the 15th of June 1779 an
                                    order signed by Governor Jefferson was brought to Chesterfield
                                    (where we were kept under guard, but not strictly confined) for
                                    my being taken to Williamsburgh in Irons, together with Captain
                                    La Mothe of the volunteer company—
                        We were handcuffed, and set on horseback, no servant allowed us,
                                    and in this manner were conducted the distance of 60 miles in
                                    two days.
                        When we arrived at the Governors residence in Williamsburgh, we
                                    were in hopes to have an enquiry or public hearing when we might
                                    have an opportunity of exculpating ourselves, but such an
                                    attention to our situation we looked for in vain.
                        It was now Sunset, we were wet, fatigued, and disspirited, and
                                    after standing a considerable tune the gaze of the populace we
                                    were sent to the common Jail a mile distance.
                        We were then put in a dungeon, where we found another of our
                                    companions in Irons and five felons—
                        This cell was not ten feet Square, and here we were to accomodate
                                    ourselves as well as we could, without a blankett or even
                                    palleasse.
                        The next day, we were brought into the yard, where our handcuffs
                                    were exchanged for fetters, mine weighed 18 lb and
                                    half—
                        We were not allowed candle, nor the use of Pen and paper without
                                    the permission of our Jailor,19 neither
                                    might we on any other terms speak to a living soul.
                        
                           
                              19 At this point the longer journal
                                        came to an end. This Narrative and the Report continue the
                                        story of Hamilton's experience until he reached 
                                            New York
                                        .
                        
                        
                        After having remained in irons 40 days & seeing that no
                                    thought seemed to be bestowed on us, I prevailed on the Jailor
                                    to take a letter to the Lieutenant Governor in which I
                                    represented the miserable state of my companions and
                                    representing that it was hard to punish them for obedience to
                                    the orders of their superior, that if there was any criminality
                                    in the orders given, I ought to suffer alone—No
                                    answer was ever received—
                        In the Month of October a parole was tenderd to us, which was so
                                    artfully worded, we unanimously agreed to remain prisoners
                                    rather than accept it.
                        I remained in this Prison fourteen Months, under the varied
                                    tyranny of unfeeling men, sometimes allowed to purchase
                                    necessaries with money which General Philips had kindly procured
                                    for us, sometimes reduced to the prison ration with cold water,
                                    in the depth of the coldest season ever experienced in that part
                                    of America—We were obliged to keep in the blanketts
                                    furnished us by the Jailor and the remnants of our own bedding
                                    which after some time were sent us, day as well as night, at
                                    length our Jailor took upon him to take us to another room in
                                    the Prison where we could have a fire—
                        The Gout laying hold of me while the Snow was yet on the ground,
                                    by the representation of a Surgeon, my irons were taken
                                    off—
                        The Summer following we were transferrd to another Prison where
                                    we remained till October, when a second parole was tenderd,
                                    & a third which last at the instance of friends at 
                                        New York
                                     I reluctantly accepted—
                        As one proof of what we might have expected from the people who
                                    had us in their power, I shall mention the case of Mr.
                                    Maisonville one of the prioners.
                        This was the person whom I had sent from St 
                                        Vincennes
                                     in search of deserters, he was betrayed by a French
                                    man a relation, and delivered into the hands of Colonel Clarke,
                                    who orderd one of his people to take off his scalp, the man
                                    hesitating, he was threatened with violent imprecations, and had
                                    proceeded so far as to take off a small part when the Colonel
                                    thought proper to stop him.
                        Mr. Maisonville who was a most resolute man made no resistance
                                    & on every occasion had behaved with resolution  and firmness, but a years
                                    close confinement with some apprehension of ending his days at
                                    the gallows had such an effect on his spirits, as tended to
                                    unsettle his brain, the person who had attended on us and given
                                    us his assistance and medicines, was so kind as to write to
                                    Governor Jefferson an account of this poor man's
                                    situation, stating that free air and liberty were essential to
                                    his recovery before any answer arrived the unhappy creature
                                    eluded the vigilance of every one and with a razor which he
                                    snatched from a servant put a period to his life and miseries at
                                        once.20 In consequence of having
                                    accepted a Parole we were permitted to pass to 
                                        New York
                                     in a small sloop for which favor we were obliged to
                                    pay 100£ tho the Vessel was so ill formed, we were
                                    twice in imminent danger of perishing, there not being so much
                                    as a Log line on board.
                        The final exchange of myself with Major Hay took place on the 4th
                                    of March 1781 and we arrived in 
                                        England
                                     in June following.
                        Major Hay has been absent from a numerous family three years and
                                    half, I should be utterly undeserving of your
                                    Lordship's favor and protection did I pass over in
                                    silence his meritorious services and suffering, during so long
                                    so painfull, and so ignominious a captivity—
                        The common men, notwithstanding every effort for their release
                                    are, I fear, still prisoners in different Jails in 
                                        Virginia
                                     and 
                                        Maryland
                                    —Thus my Lord I have ventured to lay
                                    before Your Lordship a cursory view of my unfortunate
                                    enterprize, in which I hope it will appear, that I failed
                                    thro' the treachery of a set of wretches, who owed
                                    their lives and wellbeing to our humanity, and management of a
                                    ferocious people, who at a nod would have destroyed them and
                                    their possessions—
                        The mortification of surrendering to such a set of Banditti, was
                                    heightened by the reflection that we were renderd encapable of
                                    being serviceable for so long a time—
                        To this minute no opportunity has offerd of publickly wiping away
                                    the stains upon our reputations The expences attendant on our
                                    changes of situation Your Lordship may believe have been heavy
                                    but particulars on that point and several others I omit, from
                                    the consideration already mentioned—
                        
                           
                              20 The account of
                                        Maisonville's scalping is referred to by
                                        Schieffelin in his narrative and Hamilton in his longer
                                        journal; in Clark's memoir the responsibility is
                                        placed by Clark on two of his men.
                        
                        
                        Your Lordships indulgence is very humbly sollicited for this
                                    summary relation, of facts very easily to be supported by papers
                                    in my own possession, as well as by the attestations of the
                                    persons who shared in my disgrace.
                        I have the honor to be with all imaginable deference
                                    and respect
                        My Lord
                        
                                    Your Lordships most devoted and most humble servant 
                                     Henry Hamilton
                                    
                                        
                                 
                                    
                                       London
                                    ,
                              
                                         April 9th, 1782
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            Queries
            Queries are limited to Indiana families and to fifty words, exclusive of name and
                    address. Reply directly to querist. Send queries to Miss Dorothy Riker, Indiana
                    Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                     4. The committee reserves the right to edit queries but cannot
                    engage in correspondence.
            
                    Wish to contact descendants of Benjamin E. & Rebecca Burns Millspaugh
                        who settled in 
                            Warren
                         Twp., 
                            Marion
                         Co., Ind., ca. 1850.—Francis C. Millspaugh, 52
                        Millet Road, Swampscott, Mass.
                    Want parents of Sara Ann Osborne, b. 10–3–1826 (poss. 
                            Wayne
                         Co. or 
                            Marion
                         Co., Ind.). She m. 1841 (where?) John Stevenson, b. 1815. They
                        liv. in 
                            Marion
                         Co., Ind., from at least 1846 until their deaths in 1887 and
                        1891.—Mrs. Gladys B. Schwartz, P.O. Box 209, Excelsior Springs,
                        Mo.
                    Want parents and birthplace of Martin Bowers, b.
                        8–25–1797; d. 2–1–1868, 
                            Montgomery
                         Co., Ind.—Mrs. G. W. Meacham, R.R. 3, Box 795 E,
                        Glendale, Ariz.
                    Parents of John Ruby and wife Prudence Thompson. He b. 1792 (?), Pa.; d.
                        1855, Adams Twp., Mahaska Co., 
                            Iowa
                        . She b. 1795 (?), Pa.; d. 1888–1889, same place.
                        Older chn. b. Va., middle ones in Ind., youngest in 
                            Iowa
                         to which they moved ca. 1843–1845 from 
                            Ripley
                         Co., Ind. Son Andrew, b. 9–13–1818, Va.;
                        d. 1–17–1912, 
                            Iowa
                        ; m. 12–11–1839, 
                            Ripley
                         Co., Ind., Ibby Withrow, b. 10–24–1815;
                        d. 10–15–1900, 
                            Iowa
                        ; dau. of David & Jane Gwinn Withrow.—Mrs.
                        Roy Lytle, Cedar, 
                            Iowa
                        .
                    Parents of Robert Steel who m. (lic. iss. 8–18–1829, 
                            Putnam
                         Co., Ind.) Mary ("Polly") Burk. They may have
                        lived in Owen, 
                            Putnam
                        , or 
                            Clay
                         Co.—Miss Joy S. Hendrickson, 4 Sequoia Drive, 
                            Wichita
                         8, Kans.
                    Wish names of relatives (to whom I can write) of Thalls families of 
                            Wayne
                         Co., Ind., particularly of Nathaniel Thall (Thalls), b.
                        1785–1790, near 
                            Baltimore
                        , Md., and living in 1880 on farm "near" 
                            Cambridge
                         City, Ind. In 1840 he lived in Jackson Twp., 
                            Wayne
                         Co. May have come through Eaton or Preble Co.,
                        O.—Mrs. Sarah Lyons, 4142 W. Pine Blvd., 
                            St. Louis
                         8, Mo.
                    Data on William Reed who laid out village of Reed in 1877 in 
                            Mt. Pleasant
                         Twp., 
                            Delaware
                         Co., Ind. There in 1870–1880 censuses. Where was he
                        earlier? Any relationship to other Reed families there in
                        1860?—Mrs. Faye Keller, Douglass, Kans.
                    Who were parents of Thomas Norris, b. N. C. (what county?), who lived in Vigo
                        Co., Ind. in 1830 and in 1840 in 
                            La Porte
                         Co., Ind. Son William and other children.—Mrs. Pearl
                        Hyles, 1512 Fern Ave., Torranee, Calif.
                    Want marriage and death dates of Robert S. Jamison (Jimison) who was in
                        Carroll Co., Ind., in 1860—having lived during 1840's in 
                            Tippecanoe
                         Co., then Clinton Co. Want date and place (prob. in 
                            Ohio
                         ca, 1810 plus or minus) of his parents, Thomas &
                        Abigail Jamison.—Mrs. Floyd O. Gilbert, 816 - 3rd Ave. So., St.
                        Cloud, Minn.
                    Want proof of relationship of Archibald, Nathaniel, & William Beall
                        and Elizabeth (Beall) Poston Williams of 
                            Wayne
                         Co, Ind. May be connected with Bourbon Co., Ky., Bealls.
                        Elizabeth Beall, b. 1803, m. (1) William Poston (d. 1835, 
                            Wayne
                         Co.; want parents) and m. (2)  Judge Jesse Williams of 
                            Wayne
                         Co. She d. 11–8–1883 and is bur. 
                            Centerville
                        , Ind. William Beall b. 1791–1800; Nathaniel Beall b.
                        1801–1810. Think Archibald Beall was their father; did he come to 
                            Wayne
                         Co.? Or was Archibald a brother?—Mrs. Charles W.
                        Colby, 1525 N. Main St., Hutchinson, Kans.
                    From what county in 
                            Kentucky
                         did William Wright & wife Sarah Ann migrate to Central
                        Indiana before 1855? Their dau. Arthursa Frances Wright, b. 1830, Ky.; m.
                        Greenberry F. Burgess in 
                            Shelby
                         Co. 1855 as his 2nd wife.—Mrs. Burgess McComas, Box
                        629, St. Albans, West Va.
                    John Ketcham d. 1843 (estate) in Hart Twp., 
                            Warrick
                         Co., Ind. Want birth date & place, marriage date
                        & place, death date, parents. He m. Nancy Chase (want same data for
                        her). Lived 1808–1815 in 
                            Ohio
                         (Ashtabula Co. & maybe Lake Co.). Was prob. related to
                        Foster Ketcham who came from N. Y. State to Lake Co. and Ashtabula Co., O.;
                        then to Hart Twp., 
                            Warrick
                         Co., Ind. Was Foster Ketcham a son of John? Data on Foster
                        might provide clue to John.—Mrs. Jim Curry, 
                            Cuba
                        , New Mex.
                    Want parents of Elisha Pollard, b. 4–2–1773; d.
                        9–22–1852, Campbellsburg, Ind.; m.
                        7–14–1798, 
                            Madison
                         Co., Ky., Sarah Crook. They lived in 
                            Washington
                         Co., Ind.—Mrs. S. F. Waters, 310 S. Pearl St.,
                        LeRoy, Ill.
                    Want data on the Revolutionary soldier named Young who is buried in Attica, 
                            Fountain
                         Co., Ind. Was he Jacob Young who liv. 
                            Washington
                         Co., Ind., and d. late in 1822, poss. on a visit to 
                            Fountain
                         Co. although appraisal of property is on
                        12–5–1822 in 
                            Washington
                         Co. & will proved
                        3–17–1823.—Mrs. W. A. Brown, 1104 Elm St.,
                        Shenandoah, 
                            Iowa
                        .
                    Rawley Scott, b. 1787 in Monongalia Co., Va., the son of Col. James Scott;
                        came to 
                            Daviess
                         Co., Ind., in early 1820's; later moved to Jackson Co.
                        where he died in 1860. Had son John and daughter Harriet. Want names and
                        addresses of any living descendants.—Helen Wesp, 10435 McPherson, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Ind.
                
         
         
            Calendar of Historical Meetings
            
               1. Indiana History Conference, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , December 7–8, 1956.
               2. American Historical Association, 
                            St. Louis
                        , December 28–30, 1956.
               3. 
                            Mississippi
                         Valley Historical Association, Lincoln, 
                            Nebraska
                        , May 2–4, 1957.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               A Bibliography of Indiana Imprints, 1804–1853. By
                    Cecil K. Byrd and Howard H. Peckham. Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXV. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Bureau, 1955. Pp. xxi, 479. Indices.
                    $10.00.)
            The titles of the various works printed in Indiana and listed in this
                    bibliography give a picture of a developing society in a pioneer state. The
                    first titles listed concern the laws of Indiana Territory; the first personal
                    item is a speech by William Henry Harrison, its governor; the first
                    non-political publication was produced by the Baptists in 1813; a new town was
                    advertised in 1816; while a group of the stockholders of the Bank of 
                        Vincennes
                     and the Freemasons entered the list of publishers in 1817. After
                    the appearance of the Bank of 
                        Vincennes
                     broadside, the 
                        Jeffersonville
                        Ohio
                     Canal Company produced the first imprint related directly to
                    economic activity; a medical society had been formed by 1820; the Friends began
                    to rival the Baptists in printing their records; and the Harmony Society in 1824
                    printed more titles than the remainder of the state. The 
                        Vincennes
                     Thespian Society broke into print the next year. The first
                    scholarly work listed in this bibliography is American
                    Ichthyology by Charles Alexandre Lesueur, which appeared in 1827 and which
                    was followed by many others, including titles by Thomas Say and William Maclure.
                    An insurance company was chartered in 
                        Madison
                     by 1831, and the 
                        Madison
                    , 
                        Indianapolis
                     and 
                        Lafayette
                     railroad company published its act of incorporation the following
                    year. Titles concerning railroads indicate the growing importance of the new
                    system of transportation around the year 1850.
            Although of interest to many persons, a work of this kind is of special concern
                    to historians and to librarians. Since modern historians obtain most of their
                    information from manuscript and printed sources, guides to the sources are
                    particularly helpful to them. The Indiana Historical Bureau has done a great
                    service to historians, librarians, and the public by publishing this
                    bibliography of material printed in Indiana from 1804 to 1853. Cecil K. Byrd and
                    Howard H. Peckham were the compilers.
            
            Many interesting things can be learned from a study of this volume. Twenty-two
                    per cent of the items listed were published by the Baptist church. This record
                    of getting its activity in print is nothing short of amazing, in part because it
                    was almost double the publishing activities of the territorial and state
                    governments. The Indiana State Library and the Indiana Historical Society
                    library, located in the same building, constitute much the best research center
                    for this type of material, for together they possess over sixty per cent of the
                    titles found. The library of Indiana University in contrast has less than
                    twenty-five per cent. Other libraries have even less. Considerable duplication
                    exists between the State Library and the Historical Society library. The chief
                    strength of the State Library is in its possession of state publications; its
                    most obvious weakness is the lack of material published by the Baptist church.
                    These characteristics are also true of the University library. Both, on the
                    other hand, have extensive collections of 
                        New Harmony
                     material.
            In preparing this bibliography, the compilers have made certain decisions, some
                    of which conform to previous practice and some of which constitute deviations.
                    Magazines and newspapers have been excluded as in the past because they
                    constitute a class of material in themselves. On the other hand, broadsides and
                    sheet music have been included although they have been omitted by previous
                    Indiana lists of this character. With these decisions no objection need be
                    taken. The omission of the printed documents found in the Documentary Journals
                    of the state government is another matter. Indiana's peculiar procedure
                    in this matter is not well understood and the failure to include them either
                    collectively or individually may lead researchers to miss them altogether. These
                    documents are imprints, and as important or more important than other matter
                    included, and yet the only reference to them is in the introduction to the
                    volume. Rather than follow the policy of omission, a shorter time period might
                    have been covered if it were necessary to keep down the expense. The compilers,
                    however, have found and listed many titles not previously known and have
                    produced a work of great usefulness and excellence, and for it they are to be
                    commended.
            
               Indiana University John D. Barnhart
         
         
         
            
               Travels in the Old South, a Bibliography. Edited by Thomas
                    D. Clark. (
                        Norman
                    : University of 
                        Oklahoma
                     Press, 1956. Two volumes. Vol. I: The Formative Years,
                        1527–1783: From the Spanish Explorations through the American
                        Revolution, pp. xix, 330; Vol. II: The Expanding South,
                        1750–1825: The 
                            Ohio
                         Valley and, the Cotton Frontier, pp. xv, 292.
                    Illustrations and indices. $20.00.)
            These volumes have been prepared as bibliographical tools for persons interested
                    in historical research. As general editor of the project, Professor Clark has
                    supplied an editorial preface for each volume and has been responsible for
                    co-ordinating the efforts of those who compiled the various sections within each
                    volume. Volume I consists of three sections: Alfred B. Thomas, "Spanish
                    Travel in the South, 1527–1750"; Hugh T. Lefler
                    "The Southern Colonies, 1600–1750"; and Lester J.
                    Cappon "The South During Two Wars, 1750–1783."
                    Volume II has four sections: John D. Barnhart, "The 
                        Ohio
                     Valley Frontier, 1750–1825"; William B.
                    Hamilton, "The Post Revolutionary War South,
                    1783–1805"; Walter B. Posey "The Lower Southern
                    Frontier, 1806–1815"; and Culver H. Smith "The
                    South in Expansion, 1816–1825."
            Entries within each section appear alphabetically under the author's
                    name. In addition to title, publisher, place and date of publication, and number
                    of pages, the compilers have included the measurement and location of the copy
                    of the particular edition examined, the inclusive dates of the material
                    presented by the author, and a list of other editions of the printed work. Each
                    item has been appraised for its general worth. This has meant, on the whole, the
                    presentation of brief, pertinent facts about the author's background,
                    some comment on his approach and bias, and a listing of topics and geographical
                    areas treated by him. The indices include both name and subject-matter
                    categories.
            Much time and effort have gone into the production of the two volumes and they
                    will greatly facilitate the work of scholars engaged in historical research.
                    Moreover, the editorial prefaces and the introductory comments by compilers of
                    the various sections suggest trends and emphases which stand out in the
                    bibliographical items listed. Users of individual items will thus have a clearer
                    comprehension of the uniqueness of the material with which they are dealing.
                    Additional volumes have been planned and the completed set  will undoubtedly constitute a major bibliographical
                    tool for years to come.
            Like all bibliographical ventures, this project involves problems of organization
                    and inclusion which can never be resolved to the satisfaction of all concerned.
                    Travelers generally ignored sectional lines. Should they be included in a
                    bibliography centering on the South if their major travels were outside that
                    area? The compilers have been generous in the matter, perhaps overly so. Why,
                    for instance, include George Clarke when the compiler takes pains to say that
                    the only reference in the volume to the Southern colonies is the last
                    sentence—"and the 7th of July we came to an anchor in 
                        
                            Virginia
                        
                    " (I, 66).
            A satisfactory definition of the term "travel account"
                    constitutes a still greater problem. Again the compilers have been generous.
                    They have included material tucked away in biographies and memoirs, and
                    secondhand accounts written primarily from the material of others. Since they
                    found it difficult to distinguish between strictly travel accounts and other
                    items which related "directly" to travel and description, they
                    included geographies, atlases, surveys, and the statistical reports. Under their
                    definition it seems to me that they should have listed American
                        Husbandry in addition to Jefferson's Notes on 
                            Virginia
                        . If George Croghan deserves mention, why not also Conrad
                    Weiser and John Stuart? Some of their writings appear in published accounts. The
                    items by Edmund Burke and Arthur Young, to cite examples, seem incongruous in a
                    bibliography devoted to travel accounts. Greater unity and perhaps greater
                    usefulness might have resulted from eliminating works not written directly by
                    travelers and by substituting actual travel accounts which have appeared in
                    magazines or which still remain in manuscript form in major depositories.
            Volumes still to come can be made more useful by cross references wherever works
                    by the same author appear in separate volumes as, for example, references to
                    George 
                        Washington
                     and to Robert Rogers in both Volumes I and II. Care should be taken
                    to hunt out English translations of works published in a foreign language. The
                    German edition of Gottfried Duden's book, for instance, has been
                    translated and published in large part in the 
                  
                            Missouri
                         Historical Review. When an author published under a
                    pseudonym—for example,  Henry
                    Knight under the name Arthur Singleton—both names should appear in
                    the index. The first volume in this bibliographical series by E. M. Coulter, Travels in the Confederate States, appeared in 1948 but
                    without a volume number. Coulter did not give the location of the edition
                    examined, as has been done in the current two volumes. The indexing in his
                    volume also varies considerably from that used in the current volumes. Greater
                    uniformity throughout the series would add to convenience in using.
            Greater care should be exercised in indexing and in spelling of names. In Volume
                    II, for example, only one item is listed under "democracy" in
                    the index, although analysis of books included by the compilers shows that
                    several more index references should have been given. Examples of variations in
                    spelling of names are: Ramsay and Ramsey; Baily and Bailey; Sutcliff and
                    Sutcliffe; Vieillot and Viellot; Hartridge and Hartbridge; Abbot and Abbott.
            
               University of 
                            Missouri
                        
                Lewis Atherton
         
         
            
               Published Sources on Territorial 
                            Nebraska
                        : An Essay and Bibliography. By John Browning White.
                    (Lincoln: 
                        Nebraska
                     State Historical Society, 1956. Pp. ix, 300. Appendix, including
                    bibliography, and index. $6.00.)
            For thirteen years, from its organization in 1854 to its admission as a state in
                    1867, 
                        Nebraska
                     was a territory of the 
                        United States
                    . These formative years were simultaneous with a period of great
                    stress and strain for the 
                        United States
                    ; the developing sectional split, with its repercussions in 
                        Kansas
                    , and the four years of bloody civil war which followed have
                    monopolized the attention of historians. Consequently, 
                        Nebraska
                    's territorial years have been little studied. Born of the
                    same organic act as 
                        Kansas
                    , 
                        Nebraska
                    's early territorial experience, quieter and more orderly
                    than that of her sister territory, is no less significant that that of 
                        Kansas
                     to the historian of American territorial government. Historical
                    interest is often attracted to the sensational; yet it is in the unobtrusive
                    functioning of territories like 
                        Nebraska
                     that the operation and development of America's
                    "colonial" system can best be studied. This volume, in which
                    Dr. White has undertaken the noteworthy task of identifying and  analyzing the published sources on territorial 
                        Nebraska
                    , will prove a valuable aid not only to students of 
                        Nebraska
                     history but also to those scholars who have concerned themselves
                    with a study of territorial government in general.
            Dr. White, librarian of the 
                        Nebraska
                     State Historical Society, has divided his sources into five
                    categories: major contemporary sources; minor sources, differing from the major
                    sources only because they give less information about 
                        Nebraska
                     Territory; additional sources, chiefly reminiscences or
                    recollections recorded many years after the events described; and territorial
                    newspapers and maps of 
                        Nebraska
                     Territory. A very brief appendix contains a discussion of certain
                    sources on 
                        Nebraska
                    's pre-territorial history. The bibliography is carefully
                    and critically annotated and appears to be exhaustive in its coverage. The index
                    is thorough, a valuable guide to the sources discussed in the body of the book.
                    Although White at the outset limits his study to published sources, some mention
                    of the important collections of manuscript and archival material dealing with
                    territorial 
                        Nebraska
                     might have been included for the benefit of the scholar whose
                    research would carry him beyond the published works.
            White's first two chapters are intended as an introduction to the
                    published sources, the "essay" of the title. His statements,
                    however, are directed to the librarian rather than to the historian. There is no
                    comment on the nature of 
                        Nebraska
                    's territorial government, no summary of the period which
                    the author has chosen as his field of concentration. Little attempt has been
                    made to place the bibliography in its historical perspective. The
                    author's tendency to depart from a discussion of the source material he
                    has compiled detracts from the value of these first chapters. For example, his
                    comments on commercially compiled reminiscences seem at times to have little
                    relevance to the period of 
                        Nebraska
                     history under study. His discussion of library policies in
                    preserving source materials and his appeal for a sound acquisitions policy for
                    the future do not enlighten the reader as to the problems involved in a study of
                    territorial 
                        Nebraska
                     nor even as to the significance of the bibliography in directing
                    the serious scholar into hitherto neglected phases of 
                        Nebraska
                     history.
            
            In his compilation of these published sources Dr. White has rendered the
                    historian a valuable and important service. It is hoped that the appearance of
                    this volume will not only stimulate study of territorial 
                        Nebraska
                     and territorial government in its broader perspective but will also
                    encourage scholars in other states to produce similar bibliographies dealing
                    with their territorial periods.
            
               University of 
                            Kansas
                        
                Robert W. Johannsen
         
         
            
               The North American Midwest: A Regional Geography. Edited by
                    John H. Garland. (
                        New York
                    : John Wiley and Sons, 1955. Pp. viii, 252. Maps, tables, selected
                    bibliography, and index. $8.00.)
            This volume, apparently the first regional geography of the Midwest, emphasizes
                    the economic development of the region during recent years. Though the area
                    covered is not precisely delimited, it is roughly that vast expanse of territory
                    from western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     westward to approximately the ninety-eighth parallel, stretching
                    from near the 
                        Tennessee
                    -
                        Arkansas
                     boundary on the south northward across the Great Lakes to include a
                    small portion of 
                        Canada
                     immediately bordering the lakes.
            The first chapter sets forth the thesis that "The Midwest, the heart of
                    the North American continent, is a geographical phenomenon. The interior of no
                    other continent possesses a combination of natural resources so favorable to
                    human utilization" (p. 3). But the opening statement of the Preface
                    that "only within the present century has the significance of the
                    Midwest become apparent" (p. vii) underestimates the recognition given
                    to this region during the nineteenth century. For instance, James Hall in his
                        Notes on the Western States … ( 
                        Philadelphia
                     , 1838) wrote: "There is probably not on the globe, an
                    equal expanse of surface, of such uniform fertility; and when in addition to
                    that advantage, we take into view, its temperate climate, its salubrity, the
                    abundance of its mineral resources, the variety of its productions, the
                    multiplicity and extent of its navigable communications, and its central
                    position in relation to our continent, it will be conceded that there is none
                    which better deserves to be described and studied" (pp.
                    13–14).
            
            This lack of basic information about the historical development of the region is
                    one of the weaknesses of this volume which is a co-operative work of fifteen
                    authors most of whom are professors of geography in institutions of the Midwest.
                    The initial chapter gives a preview of the region and its setting in
                    "The Heart of a Continent." Successive chapters discuss the
                    region with regard to "Weather and Climate,"
                    "Settlement Forms and Patterns," "Significance of
                    Agriculture," "Structure of Industry," and
                    "Trade and Transportation." Then follow separate chapters for
                    each of ten sub-regions, including four of the inner portions and six on the
                    peripheral portions of the Midwest. 
                        Chicago
                     is described as the hub of the region. These chapters concerning
                    the sub-regions vary greatly in emphasis, value, and workmanship. Moreover, they
                    repeat much that is also found in the first six chapters, but considerable
                    repitition was perhaps unavoidable.
            The selected bibliography lists items of value which historians often overlook,
                    but there is a noticeable dearth of works appearing after 1950 despite the fact
                    that the volume was not published until 1955. Footnotes frequently add brief
                    information or data which should either have been included in the text or else
                    omitted, while supporting citations for much of the text and most of the tables
                    are either lacking or, if given, are not included in a manner which can be
                    easily identified or traced. A summary listing of the numerous tables and maps
                    would have been helpful as an addendum to the table of contents.
            Here and there are statements which may draw fire from scholars. For instance,
                    neither the view that "today, in the core of the continent at the very
                    center of the nation, is a distinctive Midwestern culture" (p. 14) nor
                    the inclusion of the region as a part of the Bible Belt (p. 12) is likely to
                    find general acceptance. Moreover, while midwesterners have become accustomed to
                    the isolationist label (p. 12) they have somehow done remarkably well in
                    supporting the nation in both civil and national wars, and this label needs
                    reexamination and further study rather than the loose bandying about which it
                    too often receives.
            This book suggests anew the mutual kinship between geography and history and the
                    impossibility of writing either effectively without giving careful attention to
                    the  other. Moreover, the Midwest certainly
                    merits such studies which can be used to advantage, particularly by students of
                    geography, history, economics, business, government, sociology, and other
                    subjects. The authors had the difficult task of covering immense topics within
                    short compass and their work was doubtless made more difficult by the lack of
                    previous similar studies of the Midwest.
            
               Indiana University Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               The American Life Convention, 1906–1952, a Study in
                        the History of Life Insurance. By R. Carlyle Buley. (
                        New York
                    : Appleton-Century-Crofts, 1953. Two volumes. Pp. 1397.
                    Illustrations, bibliographical note, appendices, and index. $15.00.)
            At first blush the reader of this monumental work is likely to be staggered by
                    its sheer volume. Yet as one reads he begins to wonder how so much of American
                    business history could have been compressed into so few pages. Commissioned by
                    the American Life Convention to write its history with the assistance of a
                    committee composed of past presidents of the Convention, Professor Buley has
                    surpassed what might have been expected even of one having his skill and
                    experience. For this book, consisting of some fourteen hundred pages, is
                    monumental not only in bulk but also in the interpretive insight demonstrated by
                    the author. As one reads, he finds it hard to imagine that the writer has not
                    spent a lifetime in the higher echelons of life insurance management. Yet the
                    perspective is clearly that of the historian rather than that of the business
                    man.
            While the book does not purport to be a history of life insurance in the 
                        United States
                    , it comes very close to being just that. Spanning as it has the
                    last fifty years, the American Life Convention has seen life insurance in this
                    country grow from adolescence into vigorous maturity. Even more important, the
                    Convention has played an ever-growing role in shaping its development. The
                    American Life Convention has been part and parcel of the institution as it has
                    come into its own as a vital force in individual and business financial
                    planning, on the one hand, and a significant channel for the mobilization and
                    investment of savings on the other. Starting at a time when the Armstrong
                    investigation in New  York was causing the
                    country to turn critical eyes upon life insurance, the Convention has played a
                    more and more vital role in steering the institution of life insurance through
                    many critical periods. Such periods include two major wars, the financial crisis
                    and ensuing depression of the thirties, the investigations of the Temporary
                    National Economic Committee, and the Supreme Court decision declaring insurance
                    to be interstate commerce and hence subject to federal rather than state
                    control.
            Sponsored originally by the newer companies of the West and South—most
                    of them stock companies—the American Life Convention in the beginning
                    was largely a defensive organization. It spoke out for the preliminary term
                    method of policy valuation (which permitted the company to recover a substantial
                    proportion of the initial expense of issuing a policy from the first annual
                    premium rather than amortizing its recovery over a period of years), and in
                    favor of state as opposed to federal supervision then favored by some of the
                    eastern companies. But as time passed the organization began to outgrow its
                    sectionalism. One by one the companies of the eastern 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                     joined its ranks. By the early 1940's, with the accession
                    of most of the remaining large eastern companies, the American Life Convention
                    came to represent all but a fraction of the total life insurance in the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                    . At the same time, the organization was fulfilling the dream of an
                    early secretary who had mothered it through infancy and adolescence, who
                    conceived as the Convention's ultimate function to "accumulate
                    facts, disseminate information, further education, abolish abuses, eliminate
                    unsound competition, adjust controversies, establish goodwill, promote
                    confidence, expose frauds, safeguard investments, prevent venal misguided
                    legislation, and protect policy holders" (pp. xiv-xv). Typical of the
                    Convention's work was its participation in an important project
                    described by the author as follows (p. xvii): "In 1937 the National
                    Association of Insurance Commissioners in cooperation with the Actuarial Society
                    of America and the American Institute of Actuaries undertook the construction of
                    modern mortality tables and the preparation of model bills for more scientific
                    and equitable nonforfeiture and policy valuation laws. Five years later the task
                    was completed and the work to secure adoption by the  states began. In another five years the legislation
                    was adopted or made acceptable by 47 of the 48 states and the District of 
                        Columbia
                    , and for the first time a near uniformity on basic principles was
                    arrived at among the states. There is perhaps no comparable example in American
                    history of expedition in voluntary cooperative accomplishment on a broad
                    legislative front by the states. In this achievement the American Life
                    Convention and its member companies in 41 states and the District of 
                        Columbia
                     played an important part."
            The book is divided into two parts. Part I describes the beginnings of life
                    insurance and its history in the 
                        United States
                     up to 1906, the year in which the American Life Convention was
                    established. Part II occupies the remainder of Volume I and the bulk of Volume
                    II. It consists of the history of the American Life Convention and the
                    author's conclusions. The remainder of Volume II consists of some 350
                    pages of appendices. The author's treatment is almost completely
                    chronological, necessitated, as he states, by the fact that the principal
                    business of the American Life Convention was transacted at its annual meetings.
                    And, although its activities were carried on throughout the year, they were
                    reflected in the reports presented at the annual meeting. Topical treatment,
                    therefore, occurs primarily within the chronicle of each year.
            While a strict chronological arrangement was undoubtedly necessary, the reader
                    soon develops a sense of discontinuity as the discussion moves rapidly from
                    topic to topic, each frequently bearing little relationship to the one which
                    precedes or the one which follows. Yet the difficulty diminishes as topics which
                    occupied the attention of the Convention over a period of years begin to
                    reappear year after year in the chronicle.
            As a reference work, the history will prove highly useful to the student of life
                    insurance. In addition, the excellent index as well as the
                    "Bibliographical Note" and Appendix E, "Papers Read
                    Before the American Life Convention and Its Sections," will add greatly
                    to its usefulness. Since most of the activities of the Convention are reflected
                    in the papers read at its annual meetings and the meetings of its various
                    sections, the usefulness of such a list is self-evident. The  Bibliographical Note consists of a carefully
                    selected and annotated bibliography.
            It appears to this reviewer that the author clearly has accomplished his purpose,
                    namely "to assemble and preserve scattered materials, some of them
                    ephemeral, which pertain to the activities and organizations of men in a field
                    which the writers of history usually pass over." But he has also given
                    us at least an outline of the later history of life insurance in the 
                        United States
                    , setting its various facets into true perspective, and has
                    suggested phases which will bear further investigation and recording. It is to
                    be hoped that business historians will follow the paths of investigation the
                    author has suggested and will not let this challenge and opportunity pass by
                    default.
            
               Indiana University J. Edward Hedges
         
         
            
               The Development of American Petroleum Pipelines: A Study in
                        Private Enterprise and Public Policy, 1862–1906. By Arthur
                    M. Johnson. (
                        Ithaca
                    : Cornell University Press, 1956. Pp. xiii, 307. Illustrations,
                    maps, bibliography, and index. $4.50.)
            Among petroleum lawyers a source of interesting speculation is the exact nature
                    of pipelines as common carriers. Court decisions have, in general, served to
                    confuse an already mixed-up set of federal laws regarding petroleum pipelines.
                    Some of these disagreements may well be solved by Mr. Johnson's study.
                    This monograph was prepared and published by the American Historical Association
                    through the assistance of the Albert J. Beveridge Fund. It was the prizewinning
                    manuscript submitted to the association's board of judges. Its subject
                    is the growth and establishment of the system of transportation of crude oil
                    through pipes from its beginnings in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     until its regulation by the Hepburn Act.
            This book might well have been entitled "The Rise and Successful
                    Progress of the Standard Oil Company and Its Pipelines." Until Standard
                    Oil was forced to bow to the pressure of public opinion and the Sherman
                    Anti-Trust Act, it operated the largest and most successful of pipelines. From
                    1870 until the first decade of this century Standard  Oil combined, fought, operated, bought and sold its
                    way to the top of the competitive ladder in oil transportation. It first fought
                    the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Railroad by joining with the Erie and the 
                        New York
                     Central to break a near monopoly of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . It then turned around and allied with the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     when the latter's pipeline system, the Empire
                    Transportation Company, could no longer compete. It could not stop the
                    combination of independents known as the Tide Water Pipe Company that competed
                    with it successfully for a time. Standard ended by becoming the chief pipeline
                    operator and transporter of crude oil east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . That was its position in 1906 in the Lima-Indian and Appalachian
                    oil fields. By 1906 the Pure Oil Company had become its principal competitor.
            Standard and Pure Oil succeeded because both were able to conduct their affairs
                    according to the best business methods of the time. Hard work, engineering
                    efficiency, and ruthlessness when necessary were the factors making for ultimate
                    success. This is the theme of Johnson's study. When free competition
                    was permitted those companies able to find and follow the best business methods
                    survived. Standard Oil was better managed, better financed, and better
                    organized. It could crush individuals and roll over the opposition in fine
                    style. In so doing Standard looked at the currently accepted practices of its
                    competitors, the railroads, and followed their methods.
            The monopolistic position of Standard Oil and the way in which it reached that
                    position came under attack by the muckrakers. Ida M. Tarbell and Henry D. Lloyd
                    directed public indignation against the way in which a vital commodity was being
                    priced and regulated by a private company. The citizens of 
                        Kansas
                     became so angry at one point that this otherwise self-proclaimed
                    home of rugged individualism was put into the oil refining business by those
                    people who hated Standard Oil. Not only in 
                        Kansas
                     but also in the eastern states, whenever a pipeline pool or
                    monopoly became too strong there was an attack upon it in the state
                    legislatures.
            State legislation of pipelines, however, was not too successful, mainly because
                    of the pressure of special interests such as the railroads. In the end it was
                    aroused public opinion, thanks to the reformers, that backed President Theodore
                    Roosevelt in getting Congress to pass effective regulatory legislation. But
                    regulation under the Interstate  Commerce
                    Commission came too late to alter the form and pattern of operation of the
                    pipeline industry. As Johnson writes: "When the pipeline issue appeared
                    on the national scene as a subject for public policy, it was too late to change
                    the place that private enterprise and inadequate public policies on the state
                    level had given pipelines in the petroleum industry" (p. 251).
            In writing this first-rate study of a part of one of our most important
                    industries, the author has made use of nearly every possible source. For his use
                    of public documents, biographies, newspapers, and magazines he should be
                    commended for his diligence and his research. The Roosevelt papers and the
                    hearings before committees of various state legislatures proved a mine of
                    information. State and federal investigatory bodies at one time or another
                    accumulated a large amount of information about our economic growth. No one can
                    safely write industrial history and ignore these usually dull compilations of
                    statistics and opinions. One most important source, however, was apparently
                    unavailable for this study and its absence detracts from the overall value of
                    the book: management's side as revealed in its documents was not given
                    prominence either in the book itself or its bibliography. It is quite probable,
                    though, that this information could not be obtained. What material Johnson did
                    use has been treated with impartiality.
            This book is not for the general reader. It is written with a concentration and
                    concern for statistics, events, and facts that makes it heavy going for all but
                    the specialist in economic history. Its chief merit lies in the information it
                    gives about how pipelines were made a weapon for successful warfare within the
                    oil industry and how the public at last stepped in to regulate this new form of
                    transportation.
            
               Indiana Historical Society  Robert B. Eckles Director,
                        Natural Gas History Project
            
         
         
            
               John Filson of Kentucke. By John Walton. (
                        Lexington
                    : University of 
                        Kentucky
                     Press, 1956. Pp. xiv, 130. Illustrations, map, and index.
                    $4.00.)
            This slender volume, based upon research extending over a period of twenty years,
                    presents essentially all that is known of John Filson who, though his life is
                    still shrouded  in some degree of obscurity,
                    attained a distinct and permanent place in 
                        Kentucky
                     history. Filson's importance is based chiefly on his
                    production of the first map of 
                        Kentucky
                     and on his authorship of its first history, which contained the
                    earliest account of Daniel Boone, one which created the prototype of the
                    national hero of the frontier.
            Filson's present biographer, great-great-grandson of Samuel Filson, a
                    cousin of the subject of the volume, brings to the study an obvious personal
                    interest. Yet he refrains from claiming more than the record reveals as he comes
                    to the conclusion that Filson was not a great man and as an intellectual was
                    "undistinguished" (p. 126). Professor Walton suggests that
                    Filson's importance is based on his being "one of the many who
                    made up the composite greatness of the old frontier" (p. 126).
            Filson's account of 
                        Kentucky
                    , published originally in 1784 and later printed in 
                        France
                    , 
                        Germany
                    , and Great Britain, is carefully analyzed, as are other aspects of
                    his career which culminated in his disappearance at about the age of thirty-five
                    while on an exploring expedition which was threatened by Indian attack in the
                    Miami country north of the 
                        Ohio
                     River.
            In Professor Walton's carefully documented study, various details
                    regarding Filson's life are corrected. A marriage record of his parents
                    found in the Old Swedes' Church in Wilmington, 
                        Delaware
                    , and other evidence indicate that Filson was born about December
                    10, 1753, rather than 1747, as previous 
                        Kentucky
                     historians (as well as the Dictionary of American
                        Biography) had conjectured. The author also shows evidence to
                    contradict commonly accepted views that Filson's land claims in 
                        Kentucky
                     were based on military warrants.
            Thus, from the standpoint of materials now known to be extant, a nearly
                    definitive life of Filson is presented. Enclosed in a pocket on the inside back
                    cover of the book is an exact replica of the remarkably accurate map which
                    accompanied the original edition of Filson's account of the 
                        Kentucky
                     area.
            
               
                  
                            Ohio
                         State University Francis P. Weisenburger
         
         
         
            
               George Washington in the 
                            Ohio
                         Valley. By Hugh Cleland. (
                        Pittsburgh
                    : University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 1955. Pp. xvi, 405. Maps, illustrations, and index.
                    $5.00.)
            The publication of Professor Cleland's book is particularly well timed,
                    coming in the midst of the bicentennial anniversary of 
                        Washington
                    's initial journeys into the upper 
                        Ohio
                     Valley. In the narrative the author has depended predominantly upon
                    the writings of Washington, but on occasion he has supplemented this source
                    rather liberally from letters and journals particularly when Washington is
                    silent or when there seems to be a discrepancy in his accounts and the accounts
                    of others. The work is concerned with Washington's seven trips into the
                    "Western country" to deal with the problems of the frontier.
                    The first of these expeditions occurred in 1753 when, as a young major of
                    twenty-one, Washington was commissioned by Lieutenant Governor Dinwiddie to
                    carry a letter to the French at Fort LeBoeuf. From this beginning, the story is
                    carried to the decade of the 1790's, shortly before Washington retired
                    from public life.
            As a result of attempting to relate some of the important early history of the
                    upper 
                        Ohio
                     Valley, with particular attention given to 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and its immediate vicinity, "in the words of one of its
                    most distinguished visitors, George 
                        Washington
                    " (p. vii), the book tends to lack continuity. This fact is
                    of great importance if the book is directed, as the author has suggested,
                    "to people who like to read history rather than professional
                    historians" (p. vii). Dr. Cleland has, however, made short prefatory
                    remarks at the beginning of each new section of the book which aid in overcoming
                    this lack of continuity. In these brief paragraphs an attempt is made to bridge
                    the rather large gaps and to set the scene for each new episode.
            Because of the many place names used and the various routes described at one time
                    or another in the book, it is unfortunate that the author did not see fit to use
                    maps more extensively throughout the narrative. Only three maps are reproduced
                    in the book and these are not placed particularly well to lend themselves for
                    immediate reference by the reader. Again, this is a shortcoming that tends to be
                    magnified if the book is directed toward the non-professional historian. Another
                    rather serious omission is the lack of  a
                    bibliography. One wonders many times throughout the book what Professor
                    Cleland's sources are when he augments content by remarks in footnotes.
            Perhaps the author has succeeded in writing an account that will be used by the
                    "average" reader. And if this be true, perhaps this is
                    justification enough for the labor. It is certainly true that the book contains
                    many interesting commentaries on such subjects as early military life, early
                    modes of travel, methods of dealing with the Indians as well as the chicanery of
                    the red man, and early politics.
            
               
                  
                            Michigan
                         State University Richard M. Jellison
         
         
            
               The Presbyterian Enterprise; Sources of American Presbyterian
                        History. Edited by Maurice W. Armstrong, Lefferts A. Loetscher, and
                    Charles A. Anderson. ( 
                        Philadelphia
                     : Westminster Press, 1956. Pp. 336. Appendix and index.
                    $4.50.)
            This book was prepared and published in connection with the celebration in 1956
                    of the 250th anniversary of the founding of the first presbytery. The editors,
                    all of whom are well versed in the history of American Presbyterianism, have
                    gathered together approximately 170 manuscripts—letters, journals,
                    diaries, periodicals, minutes, and other documents which give a vital, warm
                    glimpse into the lives of the men and women who were the
                    Presbyterian Church—from colonial times to the present. The documents
                    have been carefully chosen and skillfully edited, with editorial explanations
                    preceding each document.
            Part I deals with colonial Presbyterianism, beginning with the minutes of the
                    first presbytery in 1706. It includes the organization and work of the church
                    down through the adoption of standards in the "Adopting Act of
                    1729." Chapter two of this section relates to the Great Awakening,
                    which divided the Synod (organized in 1717), but which swept thousands into the
                    churches and stimulated the organization of educational institutions and
                    development of democracy. There are interesting documents relating to: the
                    "Log College"; revivals; Gilbert Tennent's sermon in
                    1740 on the "danger of an unconverted ministry"; the
                    missionary activities of David Brainerd and others; the establishment  of the New 
                        London
                     Synodical Academy; the founding of the College of 
                        New Jersey
                     (
                        Princeton
                    ); the schism of 1741; and the beginnings of missionary activities
                    in the Appalachian area. In chapter three there are documents which reveal the
                    attitude of the church toward British rule. One of the most interesting of these
                    is a pastoral letter lauding the repeal of the Stamp Act. A lengthy pastoral
                    letter on the eve of the Revolution points out that "the reason for
                    revolt is not lawlessness, but the preservation of the rights of free
                    men" (p. 80).
            Part II traces the growth and expansion of the church from the close of the
                    Revolution to the end of the Civil War. Among the most significant documents are
                    those on the founding of the General Assembly in 1787; the
                    "disciplining problem" in the churches; the missionary work of
                    William Williamson and others; the 
                        Kentucky
                     Revival in 1797 and the years immediately thereafter; the founding
                    of 
                        Princeton
                     Seminary (1811), the Board of Missions (1816), the Educational
                    Society (1818), and "a general Board of Education" (1812);
                    manual labor schools; the "revolt" of ninety-two students at
                    Lane Theological Seminary in 1834; the attitude of the church toward immigration
                    (its leaders were disturbed) and toward Manifest Destiny (its leaders approved);
                    missionary activities in 
                        Oregon
                     of the New School missionaries Dr. and Mrs. Marcus Whitman from
                    1836 until their murder in 1847; the Board of Publication in 1838. There are
                    many documents relating to Presbyterian views on slavery. Most of these are
                    northern accounts, but the southern view is well stated in the
                    "Southern Address," adopted by the Presbyterian church of the
                    Confederate States of America in 1861, and probably written by Dr. James
                    Thornwell of 
                        Columbia
                     Seminary, 
                        South Carolina
                    .
            Part III covers the history of Presbyterianism from 1870 to the present. In a
                    chapter entitled "Reconciled and Expanding," there are
                    documents about the missionary activities of Sheldon Jackson and others in the
                    Far West and abroad; the Board of Home Missions and the Woman's Board
                    of Missions (1879); and Joseph 
                        Brown
                    , the famous "Sabbath school missionary." There
                    are several documents dealing with the problems posed by Darwin's
                    doctrine of evolution. The editors point out that prior to 1899 the church
                    tended to resist social and cultural change, but  that with the advent of the twentieth century, the
                    church made an "adjustment." The Confession of Faith was
                    revised and the Book of Common Worship introduced. Particularly during World War
                    I, the church carried on missionary and welfare activities among the laboring
                    people; it went through a fundamentalist controversy; it suffered with the
                    people during the Great Depression. It also took the view that the essential
                    doctrines of the church had to be confirmed by the majority of the presbyteries.
            The final chapter reveals intimations of fresh creativity since 1937. Chaplains
                    brought spiritual encouragement to men in the armed forces during World War II;
                    the church launched a "reconstruction fund"; and the New Life
                    Movement brought renewed spiritual vigor to local churches. Christian work on
                    college and university campuses increased perceptibly, and more interest was
                    taken in international affairs and in the quest of social justice.
            A six-page "List of Documents Quoted" and an adequate index
                    round out a volume which should prove invaluable to students of American church
                    history.
            
               University of 
                            North Carolina
                        
                     Hugh T. Lefler
         
         
            
               Ill Feeling in the Era of Good Feeling: Western 
                            Pennsylvania
                         Political Battles, 1815–1825. By James A. Kehl. (
                        Pittsburgh
                    : University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 1956. Pp. xiii, 271. Map, illustrations, bibliography,
                    appendices, and index. $4.00.)
            Historical research has gone far toward demolishing the interpretation of the
                    decade following the War of 1812 as an "Era of Good Feelings,"
                    if indeed such an interpretation ever was accepted by careful scholars. The
                    one-party situation prevailing during the administration of James 
                        Monroe
                     actually stimulated personal rivalries and political proliferation.
                    The Panic of 1819, followed by a depression, as well as the acrimonious debate
                    concerning the admission of 
                        Missouri
                     to the Union, furthermore, did not produce "good
                    feelings." Conflicting economic, social, and sectional interests
                    persisted in the years of the "New Nationalism."
            In a study of fifteen trans-Allegheny counties of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in this period, James A. Kehl joins others in concluding that there
                    were many ill feelings, at least up to 
                    1825. His purpose is to analyze the characteristics of the area and to give an
                    account of the political battles waged there. Drawing principally from the local
                    newspapers for his sources, he describes the minutiae of party alignments and
                    instrumentalities in an informative though ponderous manner. The wing of the
                    Republican party favoring the "delegate" or
                    "caucus" system, as opposed to the "Independent
                    Republicans" (including some unreconstructed Federalists), contributed
                    to the evolution of the "convention" device of nominating
                    candidates and drafting platforms by the middle 1820's. Local
                    "committees of vigilance" and "committees of
                    correspondence" carried on the organizational work of directing
                    campaigns. Mr. Kehl transmits to the reader his thorough familiarity with these
                    conditions, especially with the role of the press. He concludes with a treatment
                    of the elections in western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and demonstrates that area's overwhelming support of
                    Andrew Jackson in 1824.
            The author disagrees with Frederick Jackson Turner that the 
                        Ohio
                     Valley had essentially uniform characteristics. He finds western 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to be a region by itself with its own traits. It was, he asserts,
                    "Western in attitude, but had to depend upon a legislature at 
                        Harrisburg
                     that was largely eastern in sympathy" (p. 12). Thus,
                    unlike 
                        Ohio
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                     did not offer an "economic sanctuary" for
                    debtors. In several respects, says Mr. Kehl, state lines and the Alleghenies
                    marked off a distinctive region with a consequently unique pattern of habits and
                    attitudes. The thesis may be sound as applied to this decade of American
                    history, but it would be tenuous if extended to earlier or later years.
            
               Indiana University Maurice G. Baxter
         
         
            
               Frontier Politics and the Sectional Conflict: The Pacific
                        Northwest on the Eve of the Civil War. By Robert W. Johannsen.
                    (Seattle: University of 
                        Washington
                     Press, 1955. Pp. xiii, 240. Illustrations, map, bibliography, and
                    index. $5.00.)
            One of the less-well tilled fields in the history of American democracy is the
                    evolution of self-government in the territories. Because of special
                    circumstances, the experience in 
                        Kansas
                     has been frequently referred to, but until recently  very little attention has been given to that phase
                    of history elsewhere. Fortunately, in the last few years, belated study has been
                    given to these ground-roots activities by men such as R. Carlyle Buley, Paul W.
                    Gates, James C. Malin, Earl Pomeroy, and others. Now another scholar is turning
                    his attention to these neglected historical acres with excellent results.
            The Pacific Northwest in the years of its origins was far distant from the
                    population mass of the nation and enjoyed only the most rudimentary means of
                    communication with the rest of the republic. It grew up in almost complete
                    isolation. However, its first citizens in most instances came from the various
                    states in the Union, and the majority of them undoubtedly brought with them
                    habits and traditions of political behavior including membership in one or
                    another of the national parties. As they labored to create the bodies politic of 
                        Oregon
                     and 
                        Washington
                    , they made use of what they brought with them. Their most dominant
                    motivations, however, which produced leadership were the twin desires to rule
                    and to develop. Their task was complicated by the fact that while they could
                    choose their legislatures, and thus make their laws through their own
                    representatives, and could send a spokesman to Congress, they must tolerate
                    executive and judicial appointments by the Federal government. This division of
                    authority complicated the task and made these isolated pioneers particularly
                    sensitive on the question of self-government.
            This issue of self-government dominated in the Northwest even in the tense days
                    of the sectional conflict that was leading to bloodshed during the
                    1850's. Johannsen traces the local struggles among contending factions
                    as they sought for advantage and shows how they made use of the sectional issues
                    for their local ends in these various contests. The question of slavery by the
                    very nature of the physiographical situation could only be academic, but the
                    problem of territorial self-government raised by the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     struggle was not. An intricate pattern of the real and the
                    artificial as elements in political strategy is traced as fully as the paucity
                    and specialized character of the evidence will permit. Unfortunately, this
                    evidence seems to be almost wholly the writings of political journalists,
                    leaders and workers, so it is of necessity incomplete, slanted, and
                    imperceptive. But between  the lines one
                    senses something of the social process which shaped these political behavior
                    patterns and institutions. The author is to be commended for this careful and
                    skillful handling of unsatisfactory and partial evidence. It is to be hoped that
                    he will continue to till this neglected field, for his insights are bound to be
                    increasingly significant. He grasps the fact of greatest significance, namely,
                    the self-contained and locally dominated nature of the territorial political
                    experience.
            
               University of 
                            Pennsylvania
                        
                Roy F. Nichols
         
         
            
               The Development of Academic Freedom in the 
                            United States
                        . By Richard Hofstadter and Walter P. Metzger. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1955. Pp. xvi, 527. Index. $5.50.)
            
               Academic Freedom in Our Time. By Robert M. MacIver. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1955. Pp. xiv, 329. Introduction, select
                    bibliography, and index. $4.00.)
            Unfortunately, at the present time academic freedom would appear to be one of the
                    poor relations among the various freedoms. For so far as the general public is
                    concerned, any such thing as a claim to academic freedom leaves most people
                    indifferent or, if not indifferent, then mistrustful or even hostile. Worse
                    still, the indifference or mistrust or hostility seems to be compounded of
                    serious misconceptions and misinformation about the nature and purpose of
                    academic freedom.
            In the hope of at least partially correcting this situation, these two books were
                    written. More specifically they were written at the behest of the American
                    Academic Freedom Project—a project certainly with a very high
                    sounding title, and consisting of an executive committee and panel of advisers
                    drawn from some of the country's most distinguished educators and men
                    of affairs. Actually, the project would seem to be largely a 
                        Columbia
                     University affair. Established as a result of the
                    "initiative and generosity" of Louis M. Rabinowitz, it appears
                    to have been directed and executed by 
                        Columbia
                     professors and published by the 
                        Columbia
                     University Press. As stated in the foreword, "The study
                    was planned to consist of two parts, one a historical survey of  the rise, development, and vicissitudes of academic
                    freedom in this country, the other an analysis of the contemporary situation and
                    a study of the problems it presents, against a background designed to bring out
                    the significance of academic freedom and its relation to the society in which we
                    live" (p. vi). This plan has been most competently, even if not too
                    popularly, executed in the two books here under review.
            The first, the more historical study of The Development of Academic
                        Freedom in the 
                            United States
                        
               , was written by Professors Hofstadter and Metzger, both of
                    the History Department of 
                        Columbia
                     University, Part I, entitled "The Age of the
                    College," by Professor Hofstadter, and Part II, "The Age of
                    the University," by Professor Metzger. Indeed, these respective titles
                    are peculiarly significant in that the authors tend to identify the age of the
                    college with the lack of academic freedom and the age of the university with the
                    emergence of it. And the basic reason for this would seem to be that, as these
                    authors tell the story, the antebellum college in this country was largely
                    regarded as simply "a place in which the received truth is to be passed
                    on," rather than as "a place in which the search for truth is
                    to be carried on through free inquiry and the exchange of views" (p.
                    91). Or putting it a little differently, the objective of the older colleges was
                    more the conservation of knowledge, whereas that of the modern university has
                    been rather the discovery of new knowledge. In consequence, the atmosphere of
                    the older college is depicted as having been primarily a religious and
                    denominational one, tempered intermittently by the more benign influences of
                    wealth and enlightenment, whereas that of the university is represented as being
                    largely a scholarly and scientific one, tempered frequently by the protests and
                    pressures of denominational or economic reaction.
            As one reads the book, one may not be quite so sure that academic freedom must
                    have had necessarily and in principle the sort of institutional setting that it
                    is here represented as having had historically and in fact. But after all, it is
                    history that the authors are writing, and most informative and readable history
                    at that. Nor is there any question but that the reader will find that he is
                    served a most rich and varied fare, ranging all the way from an account of 
                    
                        Harvard
                     under Increase Mather to 
                        Stanford
                     under the distinguished but "sycophantic" David
                    Starr Jordan and the "devout" but
                    "imperious" Mrs. Stanford (p. 437). Likewise, there are
                    excellent sections on the medieval university, the German influence on American
                    educational institutions, the impact of big business on our colleges and
                    universities, the founding and early history of the American Association of
                    University Professors, etc.
            In the second of the two volumes under review, Professor MacIver, the
                    distinguished 
                        Columbia
                     sociologist and himself the director of the American Academic
                    Freedom Project, undertakes the somewhat more difficult task of discussing, in
                    the sense of explaining and defending, academic freedom in our time.
                    Unfortunately, comparisons are bound to be invidious, and yet it does seem that
                    while the former book under review represents a significant and novel
                    contribution to the subject, Professor MacIver's book sometimes gives
                    the impression of threshing what is now but little more than chaff.
            It's not that there isn't a desperate need for someone to do
                    just the sort of thing which Professor MacIver has here attempted to do. Also
                    it's not that the book is altogether without merit. Certain sections,
                    for instance, are singularly illuminating—for example, the chapter
                    devoted to academic government in this country, in which our American system of
                    dual trustee-faculty control is contrasted with the European system of sole
                    faculty control. Likewise, Professor MacIver shows no lack of courage and
                    forthrightness when it comes to facing up to some of the major issues in
                    connection with academic freedom. For instance, there is an exhaustive and
                    judicious, though, I fear, rather involved, discussion of whether Communists
                    should be allowed to teach. There is a frank facing up to the question of just
                    why academic freedom, what justifies it, and what difference would it make were
                    it to be compromised somewhat. Similarly, the author attempts to meet head-on
                    various charges to the effect that academic freedom is nothing but a form of
                    special privilege, or that it fosters only rights to the neglect of
                    responsibilities, etc.
            All of this is admirable. And yet why does the book seem to misfire? Perhaps the
                    reason is just that it is so obviously a book by a professor—which
                    probably means that  it will turn out to be
                    a book only for professors. And yet such a result would be quite contrary to the
                    avowed purpose of the project, which was certainly not to preach to the
                    converted, but rather to win people outside the academic profession to a better
                    understanding of the cause of academic freedom. But to this end I am afraid that
                    this particular book is about as ill-adapted as a set of carpenter's
                    tools would before brain surgery.
            
               Indiana University Henry Veatch
         
         
            
               Eliza A. Blaker, Her Life and Work. By Emma Lou Thornbrough. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : The Eliza A. Blaker Club and the Indiana Historical Society, 1956.
                    Pp. iv, 94. Illustrations and bibliographical note. Cloth, $3.00;
                    paper-bound, $1.50.)
            The biographical and historical source material which Emma Lou Thornbrough had at
                    her disposal for this account of Eliza Ann Cooper Blaker's life and
                    work was scant, as she says in her Preface. She has, however, made the most of
                    it and has chosen her many quotations with such care that they illumine the
                    inner nature of this pioneer woman educator whose influence radiated in an
                    ever-widening circle.
            Born in 
                        Philadelphia
                     before the Civil War, Eliza Cooper from her earliest years was a
                    doer. By the time she was twenty-six she had embarked upon the kindergarten work
                    which was to remain one of the prime interests of her life and, like the girl of
                    today, had begun to combine career and marriage. Although she came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1882 with her husband, Louis J. Blaker, to organize a
                    kindergarten in a private school, she soon left this work to set up free
                    kindergartens for a Children's Aid Society founded the previous year.
                    So successful was she that it became necessary for her to train in her home the
                    young women to teach in these kindergartens within and without the city. From
                    this humble beginning a school gradually evolved until finally, by means of hard
                    work, courage, and much faith, permanent quarters for the training school were
                    acquired in 1903. Aside from the tuition fees, all money for the school had to
                    be solicited, and Mrs. Blaker herself contributed generously.
            
            Strenuous as the training was, with its combination of teaching in the free
                    kindergartens each morning, classes each afternoon, and lessons at night, many
                    young women came to study under Mrs. Blaker. Her standards remained high and she
                    kept up her work, which had become nationally known, until her death in 1926.
                    She had foreseen rightly that the future of the school might best be served
                    through affiliation with a university, and four years after her death Mrs.
                    Blaker's school was made a part of 
                        Butler
                     University.
            Throughout Professor Thornbrough's account the figure of Eliza Blaker
                    dominates the background, guiding, managing, and influencing, while the
                    foreground is filled in with the women of 
                        Indianapolis
                     who upheld and furthered her ideals, with the trainees who carried
                    out her practical ideas, and with her innumerable "children"
                    in the free kindergartens who were led gently and naturally, though firmly, by
                    loving hands into paths which would mold character. Unwittingly, or so it
                    appears, the author has caught a personality trait well known to Eliza
                    Blaker's students, namely, her unconscious reserve. Much as her
                    trainees loved her, they did not feel that they could get close to her.
            Upon closing the little volume, one wishes that Emma Lou Thornbrough had searched
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers (only five press notices, none prior to 1900, are
                    mentioned) to find, if possible, other pertinent material. For example, it is
                    interesting that the motto Mrs. Blaker adopted for her school was Mehr Licht, but one looks in vain for a note of explanation. No doubt
                    Mrs. Blaker knew that these two German words are the attributed last words of
                    Goethe, but what did they signify for her?
            Two minor points might be mentioned: It is a little startling to have Mrs. Blaker
                    referred to, without explanation, as "Doctor" on pages 76 and
                    78, whereas the information relative to the title is not to be found until page
                    84. Secondly, the lists of names which occur passim from page
                    37 on, names of women and of men who served, supported, advised, etc., might
                    well have been relegated to the notes, because, unless the reader is familiar
                    with the history of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , such names are meaningless.
            The author closes her account with a quotation from the tribute paid Mrs. Blaker
                    by William A. Millis, President Emeritus of 
                        Hanover
                     College. Fine as the tribute is, it cannot  be accepted completely. Investigation will show
                    that the statement, "she [Eliza Blaker] led the move for trained
                    teachers, enriched curricula …" is not tenable unless
                    qualified. Eliza A. Blaker began the training of her teachers in 1882, but
                    Indiana University had already started classes in elementary teacher training
                    thirty years before. Furthermore, enriched curricula had been introduced into
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     elementary schools as early as 1865–1866 with the
                    introduction of German and vocal music.
            Emma Lou Thornbrough has produced a most interesting account of Eliza A.
                    Blaker's life and work and she is to be congratulated for having
                    brought this memorial to the attention of the public. If Eliza A.
                    Blaker's ideals could again be inculcated into kindergartens throughout
                    the nation and if her ideals of character training could again become basic,
                    perhaps a significant step might be taken toward the prevention of juvenile
                    delinquency.
            
               Indiana University Frances H. Ellis
         
         
            
               So Fell the Angels. By Thomas Graham Belden and Marva Robins
                    Belden. (
                        Boston
                    : Little Brown and Company, 1956. Pp. 401. Illustrations, notes, and
                    index. $5.00.)
            In Act III of King Henry VIII Wolsey admonishes his servant:
                        
                        Cromwell, I charge thee, fling away ambition: By that sin fell the
                            angels; how can man, then, The image of his Maker, hope to win by
                        it?
                    
            
            
               So Fell the Angels takes its theme from this admonition. It is
                    the story of the destructive powers of ambition in the life of Salmon P. Chase,
                    Secretary of the Treasury under Lincoln and later Chief Justice of the 
                        United States
                    ; in the life of his beautiful and imperious daughter, Kate; and in
                    the life of Kate's neurotic and ineffective husband William Sprague,
                    millionaire, Governor and 
                        United States
                     Senator from 
                        Rhode Island
                    . The entire book may be summarized in a few words: Salmon P. Chase
                    is willing to make many compromises and do many things to be elected President;
                    Kate is willing to do anything to see her father President; and Sprague is
                    willing to finance it all for the love of Kate's body and the hope that
                    he might become a satellite hero. In  the
                    end Kate pulls down the pillars of their lives and they perish in the ruins.
            The book started out as a doctoral dissertation under Professor Avery Craven at
                    the University of 
                        Chicago
                    . Then it was revised by Mr. Belden and his wife and developed into
                    a semi-popular biographical study of the three people mentioned above. It has
                    retained at least the form of the earlier scholarly study by the use of
                    footnotes, but the professional historian will wonder about the way some of them
                    are used. For example, it is considered necessary to cite a footnote to
                    substantiate the statement that after the first battle at Bull Run the North
                    began to prepare for serious warfare. The authority for this is Margaret
                    Leech's Reveille in 
                            Washington
                        
               , a book the historian would hardly accept as proof in a
                    scholarly work. At the same time there are many pages purporting to give the
                    most intimate thoughts of the three main characters and these pages carry no
                    footnotes of any sort.
            This is not to say that the book is a poor one. It most certainly is not. While
                    this reviewer may doubt the scholarly authenticity of certain sections he is
                    quite prepared to admit that the book is well written and interesting. The
                    transformation of Chase from an unctuous and ambitious politician into a Chief
                    Justice of integrity and some stature is well done. Similarly the deterioration
                    of William Sprague is deftly handled. And fascinating Kate! She never changes,
                    but in the end it is quite obvious that the brilliance of the diamond turns out
                    to be the cheap sparkle of a rhinestone.
            In addition to presenting a character study of the principals there is also a
                    parade of men and events connected with the wartime government in the North: Jay
                    Cooke who financed the war by devious methods; the strutting Roscoe Conklin,
                    Kate's lover; Sprague's fellow traitors in the scheme to sell
                    arms to the Confederates; and wartime society at its watering places. All these
                    give a glimpse behind the scenes of a nation at war. It is regrettable that
                    there are so few illustrations to highlight the characters and events.
            
               Tulane University John P. Dyer
         
         
         
            
               The Barber and the Historian: the Correspondence of George A.
                        Myers and James Ford Rhodes, 1910–1923. Edited by John A.
                    Garraty. (
                        Columbus
                    : The 
                        Ohio
                     Historical Society, 1956. Pp. xxiv, 156. Illustrations and index.
                    Paperbound, $3.00.)
            The correspondence of the Negro barber George A. Myers and the distinguished
                    historian James Ford Rhodes contains some pertinent information about the
                    American scene from 1910 to 1923. The very fact that these two men should become
                    fast friends and through the years exchange hundreds of letters is an
                    interesting sidelight on early twentieth-century America. Besides the personal
                    tie between Myers and Rhodes there were other factors which greatly stimulated
                    their friendship. They were both loyal, conservative Republicans; both were
                    great admirers of Marcus A. Hanna; they were intelligent, well-informed
                    Americans interested in the history of their country; and the historian,
                    whenever possible, visited the Hollenden Hotel barber shop in 
                        Cleveland
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , to be shaved and trimmed by the barber.
            The important service that Myers rendered the Republican party is evidenced by
                    the fact that his vote in the Republican National Convention in 1892 gave the
                    control of the 
                        Ohio
                     delegation to the Hanna-McKinley faction. Four years later Myers
                    was named chairman of the Republican Entertainment Committee for colored
                    delegates to the National Convention. In 1898, as the barber later wrote the
                    historian, "I put my head in the door of the 
                        Ohio
                     Penitentiary to make him [Hanna] U.S. Senator" (pp.
                    117–118). This the Negro did when he purchased a Negro
                    legislator's vote which enabled Hanna to be elected to the 
                        United States
                     Senate by a vote of 72 to 71. By 1920 the barber was informing his
                    historian friend that he had voted the Republican ticket and would continue to
                    do so in every election, even if the Grand Old Party nominated a yellow dog for
                    its candidate.
            Repeatedly in these letters one finds discussion of the race problem, especially
                    as it applied to the South. Myers was of the opinion that this complex issue
                    could be solved if the Negro were given the white man's opportunity. As
                    Rhodes was adding volumes to his several volume History of the 
                            United States
                        
               , his barber friend urged him to write of the
                    Negro's role in gaining the Union under 
                        Washington
                    
                     and in preserving the Union under Lincoln.
                    When Rhodes requested Myers to write a history of the American Negro, the latter
                    countered that historians, like gentlemen, were born not manufactured.
            These two correspondents agreed that the nomination of Justice Charles Evans
                    Hughes in 1916 was a dangerous precedent. They shared the opinion that the
                    G.O.P. hungered after loaves and fishes and that the party bosses believed that
                    Hughes could win. Myers was greatly pleased with the Republican nominee, that
                    is, until he read the Hughes acceptance speech and heard him speak. Then he was
                    sadly disappointed. Rhodes thought that Hughes talked over the heads of the
                    common people and made no votes among the better educated class. The barber and
                    the historian agreed that Woodrow Wilson was stronger in the Midwest after
                    Hughes' tour than before.
            On some national issues Myers and Rhodes held unlike opinions. Rhodes, for
                    example, in 1913 favored the Underwood tariff bill and the graduated income tax.
                    On the other hand, Myers understood Rhodes' position but he was, he
                    confessed, a dyed-in-the-wool protectionist. The theory of free trade, Myers
                    wrote, was well-nigh unanswerable, but the theory and the practicability were
                    diametrical.
            Many of the letters between these two friends have been lost. Those that have
                    remained are valuable and interesting. This reviewer regrets the paper binding
                    of the book. But the introduction, footnotes, and index are ample and the
                    illustrations are well selected.
            
               University of 
                            Florida
                        
                George C. Osborn
         
         
            
               Banners in the Wilderness: Early Years of 
                            Washington
                         and Jefferson College. By Helen Turnbull Waite Coleman. (
                        Pittsburgh
                    : University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     Press, 1956. Pp. xiv, 285. Illustrations, appendices, notes,
                    bibliography, and index. $4.00.)
            
               
                        Washington
                     College and Jefferson College, established in southwestern 
                        Pennsylvania
                     under Presbyterian auspices in the first decade of the nineteenth
                    century, were among the numerous church-sponsored colleges and universities
                    which commenced during that century. Many of these institutions equalled and a
                    number of them surpassed  contemporary
                    public colleges and universities not only in the number of students but also in
                    the quality of their educational programs.
            
               
                        Washington
                     and Jefferson educated students mainly for the professions, and
                    some of their students attained regional and even national distinction. Among
                    the latter were Henry A. Wise, governor of 
                        Virginia
                     and later a Confederate general; William Holmes McGuffey, famous
                    for the McGuffey readers; and Andrew Wylie, who served as president of Jefferson
                    and then of 
                        Washington
                     before he became the first president of Indiana College (Indiana
                    University) in 1829.
            During Wylie's presidency of 
                        Washington
                     there was considerable sentiment for a merger of the two
                    neighboring colleges. This movement for union, however, bogged down in bitter
                    strife and vituperation. This was not an isolated case, for the nineteenth
                    century abounded in notable instances of college and church controversies.
                    However, the one which occurred at 
                        Washington
                     while Wylie was president involved both elements and was apparently
                    harsher and more intense than a squabble limited either to professors or
                    preachers. Doubtless Wylie's Scot and Presbyterian background helped to
                    qualify him for the fray! At any rate by the time the trustees of the infant
                    Indiana College were ready to elect their first president, Wylie was available.
            Although the author of this volume is quite friendly to the traditions of 
                        Washington
                     and Jefferson colleges and is likewise generous in estimating their
                    contributions, she does less puffing than is commonly done in such histories.
                    Her account, however, could have been encompassed in fewer pages, especially
                    since it is largely restricted to the years preceding their merger in 1865.
                    Moreover a press as important as that of the University of 
                        Pittsburgh
                     should have included the footnotes on the relevant pages instead of
                    massing them together near the end of the book.
            This volume tells its story in an informal manner but the successive parts and
                    episodes are not so well connected as they might have been. The emphasis is on
                    the background and the beginnings of the two colleges, the successive
                    administrations, the curriculum, the faculty, finances, and student life. Basic
                    documents concerning the colleges are included in an appendix.
            
               Indiana University Donald F. Carmony
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            Mimeographed copies of four bulletins concerning the postal history of 
                        Evansville
                     and Southwestern Indiana have been received. Number 1 was published
                    in February, 1948; Number 2 in August, 1948; Number 8 in August, 1949; and
                    Number 4 in May, 1956. All appeared under the auspices of the 
                        Evansville
                     Stamp Club, Department of Philately, 
                        Evansville
                     Public Museum. These bulletins include information and frequent
                    reproductions of receiving marks, sending marks, route marks, and detailed data
                    regarding the locations and durations of post offices in the eight counties of
                    Dubois, Gibson, Perry, 
                        Pike
                    , Posey, 
                        Spencer
                    , 
                        Vanderburgh
                    , and 
                        Warrick
                    .
            Copies of the preliminary inventories concerning certain federal records have
                    also been received. Number 93 entitled "Records of the Federal
                    Communications Commission (Record Group 173)" was compiled by Albert W.
                    Winthrop; Number 94 entitled "Records of the Bureau of Entomology and
                    Plant Quarantine (Record Group 7)" was compiled by Harold T. Pinkett;
                    and Number 95 entitled "Records of the Price Department of the Office
                    of Price Administration (Record Group 188)" was compiled by Meyer H.
                    Fishbein, Walter W. Weinstein, and Albert W. Winthrop. All were published by the
                    National Archives and Records Service, General Services Administration, 
                        Washington
                    , 1956.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
