
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 14, Issue 3, pages 183-286. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:14+issue:3+year:1918&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Secret Political Societies in the North during the Civil War
            By MAYO FESLER
            
            I INTRODUCTION
            
            The history of a secret political society is difficult to unravel. Especially is
                    this true of a secret political organization whose principles have been
                    condemned as pernicious and treasonable by a large majority of the people and
                    whose records have been destroyed in order to prevent them from falling into the
                    hands of government officials. The difficulty is materially increased when the
                    feeling against such societies is so violent as to lead, not only the press, but
                    public officials, as well, to make strangely extravagant statements in their
                    reports concerning the operations of the societies.
            In an attempt to determine their extent, purpose, and influence, the writer was
                    confronted with a combination of difficulties. In the first place, men who were
                    members of these orders, or members of the party from which the orders recruited
                    their ranks, either denied the existence of any such societies, or minimized
                    their extent and importance; while men who were opposed to their principles,
                    were inclined to magnify the dangers resulting from their operations and
                    attribute to them a treason worse than rebellion. The excitement of the Civil
                    war times prevented men from taking a moderate view of such matters. It was a
                    period of strong  partisan feeling. There
                    were few who could see any middle ground between intense patriotism and active
                    disloyalty; between devotion to the union and sympathy for secession; between a
                    "peace democrat" and a "hissing copperhead".
                    The bitter animosities then existing seemed to confound all distinctions.
                    "He that is not for us is against us" was interpreted in its
                    most literal sense. And so, Democrats, Copperheads, Butternuts, Knights of the
                    Golden Circle, Sons of Liberty and rebels, were jumbled into one hodge-podge of
                    "hissing traitors". As a result, all the material bearing upon
                    the history of these societies, official documents as well as unofficial, must
                    be weighed in the light of these peculiarly intense times.
            The student might expect that the lapse of fifty years would tend to soften and
                    dissolve these extreme views, and that survivors of those days could now recall
                    the exciting events with less of partisan bias; but it is not the case. Most of
                    these men, who are still living, retain the bitter animosities which
                    characterized the days of the rebellion, and all attempts to secure from them a
                    moderate estimate of these societies have failed. Some five hundred letters of
                    inquiry, containing lists of definite questions, were sent to these survivors,
                    representative men of both parties in all sections of the country; and probably
                    half as many personal conferences were held. The information thus obtained
                    contains little of real historical value. In reply to the questions,
                    "What was the avowed purpose of the order", "The
                    relations of the political parties in your community to the order", and
                    "The character of the membership"? the supporters of the
                    Republican party uniformly reply, in substance, "The order which was
                    composed entirely of Democrats, had for its avowed purpose the overthrow of the
                    government and the lending of assistance to the southern rebels." The
                    members of the Democratic party reply, "The avowed purpose of the order
                    which was composed of the riffraff of the Democratic party, was the protection
                    of the rights of the citizen against the usurpation and tyranny of the
                    Republican administration". Many who were known to be members of the
                    order, refused to give any information whatever concerning its operations. The
                    effort was made  in a number of cases to
                    secure statements from these men through relatives, or close friends; but the
                    odium which attached itself to the societies, and that peculiar sense of
                    obligation which men have for secret vows even though the society in which they
                    were taken may have long since become extinct, have made even these indirect
                    efforts of little avail.
            The failure to obtain reliable information from these survivors, however, did not
                    materially affect the scope of this investigation, for there still remained a
                    mass of valuable contemporary source material in the form of newspapers,
                    manuscripts in the state department at 
                        Washington
                    , the War of the Rebellion Official Records, the official records of
                    the several trials before military commissions, and numerous diaries and
                    biographies of men of the time. All of this source material was carefully
                    scanned and analyzed in the effort to reach a fair estimate of the extent and
                    influence of these secret societies which so disturbed the loyal people in the
                    States bordering on the Mason and Dixon line during the trying days of the Civil
                    war. This study has resulted in the following narrative and conclusions.
            The plan, at first, contemplated maps and tables showing the distribution and
                    number of the lodges, but exact numerical details, it was found, could not be
                    obtained in sufficient quantity for such an exhibit. Therefore in this direction
                    no attempt at anything beyond an approximation has been made. The result, then,
                    of this investigation is an estimation of the importance of the secret
                    associations on the struggle of 1861 to 1865, rather than an exhaustive,
                    detailed account of their operations.
            2. ORIGIN OF
                    THE KNIGHTS OF
                    THE GOLDEN CIRCLE
            
            In July, 1863, there appeared at the headquarters of Gen. William S. Rosecrans in
                    central 
                        Tennessee
                     a surgeon from the Confederate army who gave his name as Dr. George
                    W. L. Bickley and requested permission to pass through the lines to his home in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . He excused his Confederate uniform and his presence in the
                    Confederate army by saying that he was caught in the south at the outbreak of
                    the war and was forced to join the southern army as a surgeon in order to get
                         through the lines. The federal
                    authorities granted him a pass but not without some suspicion as to his real
                    character. They stipulated that on his way home he must travel by way of the 
                        Mississippi
                     and Ohio rivers and make no stops between 
                        Memphis
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    .
            Gen. Ambrose E. Burnside, then commanding at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , was informed by telegram that Dr. Bickley was on his way north
                    under pass from General Rosecrans and that it might be well to watch his
                    movements. Instead of fulfilling the stipulation to go directly to 
                        Cincinnati
                     Bickley stopped off at 
                        New Albany
                    , Indiana. The authorities were notified of this and General Boyle
                    at 
                        Louisville
                     was directed to watch him and, if he deemed it advisable, arrest
                    him. On July 17 Bickley and his wife were put under arrest at 
                        New Albany
                     and their baggage seized. An examination of their persons and
                    effects revealed sufficient evidence to prove that Dr. Bickley was no other than
                    the originator of the secret political order known as "The Knights of
                    the Golden Circle", which was at that time causing such apprehension
                    along the border. On the person of Mrs. Bickley was found the great seal of the
                    order bearing the emblem of a Maltese cross surmounted by a star and encircled
                    by the inscription, "Great Seal of the K's of the G.C.,
                    1856". With the seal was found a number of metal stars, emblems of the
                    order. In Bickley's trunk, among a number of incriminating papers and
                    letters, were found several copies of a pamphlet containing the "Rules,
                    Regulations and Principles" of the order; a newspaper clipping from the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Whig containing an "Open Letter" of George
                    Bickley, "K.G.C., President of American Legion", dated July
                    17, 1860; a key to the grips, signs, passwords, etc., of the Knights of the
                    Golden Circle; a copy of a letter from George Bickley to the secretary of war of
                    the Confederate States offering to furnish a mounted brigade; and a card on
                    which was engraved a Confederate flag with the three letters, K.G.C. printed in
                    bold type across the bars. Above and below the flag were the words
                    "General George Bickley, 
                        Mexico
                     and a United South".1
            
            This evidence strengthened by the sworn statements of 
                  
                     1 "Papers relating to the case of George
                            W. L. Bickley", found in the Judge Advocate General's
                            office, contain most of material for Chapter I. References to them will
                            be indicated by the abbreviation "Bickley
                        Papers".
               
                     two witnesses regarding their acquaintance
                    with Bickley was deemed sufficient to justify his imprisonment. On August 18 he
                    was transferred without trial to the State penitentiary at
                            
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , where he was held
                    until March 20, 1864. He was then taken to Fort Lafayette where he remained
                    until March, 1865. From there he was transferred to Fort Warren where he was
                    held until his release in October of that year.
            During his incarceration Bickley made numerous efforts to secure his release. He
                    wrote to General Burnside in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , to Gen. John A. Dix in 
                        New York
                    , to Secretary of War Stanton, and finally to the President,
                    imploring their interposition in his behalf. In all the communications he
                    admitted his connection with the Knights of the Golden Circle, "an
                    order which was established for the purpose of colonizing 
                        Mexico
                    ", but denied that it had any relation to the secret
                    political order known by that name, then existing in the border States.
                    Inquiries were sent out from the office of the secretary of war to officials
                    acquainted with the character of the prisoner to learn the reasons for his
                    detention. The reply in each case was that Bickley is a dangerous man and should
                    not be released during the continuance of the rebellion. In the report from the
                    judge-advocate general's office, reviewing the case, Bickley is alluded
                    to as "the chief of the treasonable association known as the Knights of
                    the Golden Circle, an officer in the rebel army, a conspicuously disloyal
                    individual", and "a most mischievous as well as dangerous
                    character", and "his personal restraint is, for these reasons,
                        advised".2
            
            The arrest and incarceration of Bickley was not in itself a matter of particular
                    moment—his was only one of the numerous military arrests made during
                    the summer of 1863. But his relations to the secret order of the Knights of the
                    Golden Circle made his arrest a matter of more than local interest, since at
                    that moment the operations of the order were causing considerable uneasiness in
                    the border States and arousing serious apprehensions in the minds of many
                    supporters of the union cause.
            From the beginning of the struggle there had been considerable opposition to the
                    war in the north, but particularly 
                  
                     2 Bickley Papers, A. A. Hosmer, acting Judge
                            Advocate to Secretary Stanton, July 17, 1865.
               
                     along the border where the influence of
                    southern social and political ideas was strong. This opposition had gradually
                    increased with the progress of the war and its attending severities. Every new
                    call for troops, every new draft, every defeat of the union armies, and every
                    military arrest brought forth another groan fom the opponents of the
                    administration. The disaffected element, which at no time had been in sympathy
                    with the war, felt more and more the burden of taxation and the numerous
                    restraints placed upon their liberties by the State and federal governments.
                    These were made all the more unbearable when imposed by soldiers and officers of
                    the administration—men from their own communities who keenly enjoyed
                    the emotions of authority and dominance. Moreover, they witnessed in their midst
                    the organization of a semi-secret order called the "Union
                    League", whose purpose, as they viewed it, was the rendering of
                    assistance to the already tyrannical government in the enforcement of its
                    tyrannical measures. These experiences, coupled with an already strong prejudice
                    against the party in power, and, in many cases, a close sympathy with the cause
                    of the southern States, led many into more than open protest against the
                    administration—into secret organization, which under a strict
                    interpretation of the consitution might be classed as "giving aid and
                    comfort to the enemy". Whether or not this secret opposition should
                    prove formidable, depended upon the organizing ability of the leaders and their
                    courage. But the fact that their movements were secret and that their plans were
                    maturing at a time when the most sanguine supporter of the union was depressed
                    with a feeling of doubt as to the fate of the nation, made the danger seem a
                    real one and caused the patriots to regard their machinations with a deep
                    solicitude.
            The secret political and military societies, popularly known as the
                    "Knights of the Golden Circle", "Knights of the
                    Columbian Star", "Order of American Knights", and
                    "Sons of Liberty", were scattered over a number of the central
                    and western States. They were strongly intrenched in southern 
                        California
                    ;3 a number of lodges were reported in 
                        Michigan
                    
                    
                  
                     3
                            War of the Rebellion, Official Records of the 
                                    Union
                                 and Confederate Armies, Series I, Vol. L, Part
                            II., p. 938. Reference to these records will be indicated by the
                            abbreviation O. R.
                  
               
                     and 
                        Iowa
                    ; sworn statements by officers of the order indicated their
                    existence in 
                  New York, Connecticut, New
                            Jersey, Maryland
               , and 
                        Delaware
                    ; in several counties in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     prosperous and active lodges were discovered; one lodge was
                    reported in what was then 
                        Washington
                     territory;4 even as far north as 
                        Boston
                     the secret agents of the organizations attempted to gain a
                    foothold. These societies, however, were most prosperous in the border States
                    along the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     regions which had been settled largely by immigrants from the
                    mountains of 
                  North Carolina, Tennessee
               , and other
                    sections of the seceding States.
            The actual membership of the various societies will never be known. No correct
                    and complete files were kept and the meager information in the hands of local
                    State secretaries was destroyed when the plans of the order were exposed in
                    1864. Various estimates have been made by leading members and by government
                    officials who were engaged in ferreting out their plans. C. E. Dunn, second in
                    command of the order in 
                        Missouri
                    , in a sworn statement before Provost Marshal Sanderson at 
                        St. Louis
                     in July, 1864, declared the membership of the American Knights in
                    that State to be 100,000; in 
                        Illinois
                    , 100,000; in Indiana, 125,000; in 
                        Ohio
                    , 40,000; in 
                        Michigan
                    , 20,000 to 25,000.5 In southern 
                        California
                     alone the membership was estimated at 24,000, while the order could
                    control at least 50,000 men.6 In conference with the
                    Confederate agents in 
                        Canada
                     in 1864, Mr. Clement L. Vallandigham represented the strength of
                    the Sons of Liberty at 300,000, of whom 85,000 were in 
                        Illinois
                    ; 50,000 in Indiana; and 40,000 in 
                        Ohio
                    .7 In a spech at 
                        Dayton
                    , in the summer of 1863, he placed the number at 500,000, which
                    Judge Advocate Holt, in his report concerning "Secret Associations and
                    Conspiracies against the Government", says "is much nearer the
                    true total".8
            
            These secret associations bore different names in different sections and at
                    different periods of the war. In 
                        St. Louis
                     the organization was called at one time "Corps de
                    Belgique"; in 
                  
                     4
                            O. R. I, Vol. L, pt. II, p. 1056.
                  
                     5
                            O. R. II, Vol. VII, p. 629.
                  
                     6
                            O. R. I, Vol. L, pt. II, p. 940.
                  
                     7
                            The Southern Bivouac, Vol. II, p. 206.
                  
                     8
                            O. R. II, Vol. VII, p. 930.
               
                    
                    
                        Chicago
                     "The Democratic Invincible Club"; in 
                        Louisville
                     "The Democratic Reading Room"; in 
                        California
                     the "Knights of the Columbian Star". In other
                    localities they were known as the "Knights of the Mighty
                    Host", "Knights of the Circle of Honor" and
                    "Mutual Protection Society". But the names by which they were
                    generally known were "Knights of the Golden Circle",
                    "Order of American Knights", and "Sons of
                    Liberty". While it cannot be definitely proven that one is the parent
                    organization and the others the offspring, yet they follow each other so closely
                    in time and purpose, and are composed of so nearly the same element in the
                    membership that the popular mind has been justified in thinking them one and the
                    same in almost every particular except the name.
            The parent association "The Knights of the Golden Circle", as
                    has been noted, had its origin in the fertile brain of Dr. George W. L. Bickley,
                    a practicing physician, a professor of materia medica in the Eastern Medical
                    college of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , and a professor of medical jurisprudence in the 
                        Ohio
                     Law school. Bickley was a man of more than ordinary literary
                    ability, as shown by the papers found on his person when he was captured. He
                    wrote much and was for a time editor and publisher of a magazine.9 He no doubt kept himself well informed on public questions which in
                    the decade before the war were so seriously disturbing the country. One of his
                    chief characteristics seems to have been a tendency to evolve elaborate schemes
                    on paper, one of which was this secret order of the Knights of the Golden
                    Circle.
            In 1854 when the visionary William S. Walker was planning his filibustering
                    project in Lower 
                        California
                    , and the whole country, especially, the south, was disturbed by
                    various projects of this kind, the Knights of the Golden Circle was organized in 
                        Cincinnati
                     and started on its career by the inauguration of lodges in that
                    city and in two small towns in that section of the State. Its object as stated
                    in the ritual was the "entire and speedy conquest of 
                        Mexico
                     and the establishment of a separate and independent nation upon
                    such a basis as to render it subservient to the march of American
                    civilization". 
                  
                     9
                            The American Cavalier, a military journal devoted to
                            the extension of American civilization—only one copy
                        seen.
               
                     In justification of this object the
                    "rules" laid down the doctrine that 
                        Each and every American citizen has a right to denationalize himself and
                            become a citizen of any other nation, and he has the unquestionable
                            right (when once there) to rebel against the existing government (as in
                            the case of 
                                Texas
                            ) and attempt the establishment of a new government.
                            … When a nation has lost its nationality—where
                            society has given up its existence—then the territory so
                            occupied is thrown open to adventurers from civilized nations and may be
                            seized by them for the purpose of Christian civilization.10
                  
                    
                
            
               
                        Mexico
                    , they assured themselves, was in this sad state and, therefore,
                    open to Christian domination.
            The "rules, regulations and principles" which were to govern
                    the order were issued by the "Congress of the K.C.S. (Knights
                    Commanders South), and the General President" from the headquarters at 
                        Washington, D.C.
                     They provided for two sections, the Mexican Legion and the American
                    Legion. Bickley was commander-in-chief of the American Legion and the General
                    President. The regulations provided for civil and military departments; but
                    since the object of the order was the invasion and conquest of foreign
                    territory, the military department received most attention. The laws for its
                    government provided that the American Legion
            
                    Shall consist of four divisions, each perfect within itself, each commanded
                        by a marshal, who shall be responsible to the commander-in-chief.
                
            There were to be divisions consisting of two brigades; brigades of two regiments;
                    and regiments of companies; after the plan of the the existing military system
                    in the 
                        United States
                     army.
            Provision was made for cavalry and artillery companies. Salaries for officers and
                    enlisted men were specified. In addition to the salaries grants of land were
                    promised. Enlisted men were to receive 640 acres; lieutenants, 960 acres;
                    captains, 1,280 acres; majors, 2,560 acres; marshals, 2,880 acres; and the
                    commander-in-chief, 3,200 acres. Each member was required to take an oath to
                    support and sustain the government established by the American Legion and its
                    legal representatives. 
                  
                     10 Art. 38, The Rules, Regulations
                                and Principles is a pamphlet of some fifty pages. Only two
                            copies known to be preserved—one in State Department, the
                            other in War Department, 
                                Washington, D. C.
                            
                  
               
                     He was also required to obligate himself
                    "not to do anything which in his judgment would be contrary to the best
                    interest of the 
                        United States
                     of America", and to "protect and defend the same
                    against any foreign power whatsoever". Further, "If at any
                    time the 
                        United States
                     should become involved in a foreign war the services of the legion
                    shall be promptly tendered to the 
                        United States
                     government, and in no instance will the legion be allowed to take
                    up arms against the 
                        United States
                    ".
            There were three degrees in the order.11 The First or Company
                    degree was a purely military one given to every member of the legion who was to
                    bear arms. It insisted upon secrecy, true allegiance, and obedience to the
                    K.G.C. The Second or Brigade degree was practically the same as the First except
                    that it was not administered to the company at large, but only to the
                    non-commissioned officers, and stated clearly the full purpose of the order,
                    namely, "the conquest of 
                        Mexico
                     and the establishment of a civilized government in the conquered
                    territory". The Third or Division degree was taken only by the
                    commissioned officers who were to become a part of the army council. In this
                    degree the detailed plan of campaign of the 55 (K.G.C.) was set forth as
                    follows: 
                        All companies are to move so as to reach 17 and 18 on a given day. The
                            city and federal authorities of those places are already pledged to
                            assist us off. Our arms, munitions, and material having been previously
                            sent there from the several depots. All will be shipped together and
                            form one solid fleet, with sufficient armament to beat off any
                            interfering power. Eight and 9 have each promised us a frigate as
                            convoys, and we must have a good steamer of our own. Our landing point
                            must be 2.12 As soon as our independence is
                            recognized, we will then throw open our ports and invite
                        immigration.
                    
                
            Finally after all had rebelled and come over to them they would control the Gulf
                    and the destinies of 12.12
            
            The Articles of War for the government of the K.G.C. contained the following oath
                    to which every soldier and officer was compelled to subscribe: 
                        I, — —, of my own free will, do solemnly swear or
                            affirm (as the case may be) that I will bear true allegiance to the
                            K.G.C. and its lawful 
                        
                           11
                                    Degree Book, a separate pamphlet of only a few
                                    pages in extent.
                        
                           12 It is not known to what places these
                                    figures refer. The key found with the papers does not fit the
                                    numbers. 12 evidently means 
                                        Mexico
                                    .
                     
                             officers, and I will serve them
                            honestly and faithfully against all their enemies, and I will never
                            desert my brethren in arms, but I will protect them and their interests
                            as far as I possibly can; and I will do no act knowingly in violation of
                            the laws of the K.G.C. I will support the government established by my
                            brothers in arms and their officers.
                    
                
            The regulations contained provisions for the organization of castles in all parts
                    of the country and also a long list of social and political maxims which were
                    generalities of no particular import. Mention was made of a colonization and
                    steamship company which was to furnish the capital necessary to carry out the
                    designs of the K.G.C.
            It will be seen from these extracts that the purpose of the organization at the
                    time of its inauguration was filibustering pure and simple. No statement in the
                    ritual or degree book can be interpreted as indicating treason to the government
                    of the 
                        United States
                    . In fact, the members were bound to defend the government against
                    any foreign power. The association might involve the 
                        United States
                     in serious international difficulties, but this could not be called
                    treason; and evidently there was no treasonable intention in the mind of the
                    founder, when he conceived the principles embodied in this new secret society.
            General Bickley, after his arrest and incarceration at 
                  Fort Lafayette, New
                            York
                Harbor, in 1864, insisted that the policy
                    of the K.G.C. to Americanize and incorporate 
                        Mexico
                     and the 
                        United States
                     into one common republic was not treason, but was "the
                    offspring of that generally accepted policy known as the 
                        Monroe
                     Doctrine which has become as much a part of Americanism as our
                    theory of republican government."13 Concerning the
                    filibustering aspect of the society he wrote in the same letter: 
                  
                     
                        But, sir, you may say the whole scheme was a secession
                                    filibusterism. I beg to say that secession was the bane of the
                                    organization, and that so far as its filibustering aspect goes,
                                    my country is guiltier than I. We commenced filbustering at 
                                        Plymouth
                                     Rock, at 
                                        Jamestown
                                    , at 
                                        Roanoke Island
                                    , under the leadership of the Pilgrim Fathers
                                    …; we filbustered the red men out of their ancestral
                                    domain and built up an empire of Christian civilization that has
                                    merited and received the admiration of mankind; we fllbustered 
                                        Spain
                                     out of the Floridas, 
                                        France
                                     out of 
                                        Louisiana
                                     Territory, 
                              
                                 13 Biokley Papers. Bickley to
                                            Stanton, Jan. 16, 1865.
                           
                                    
                                    
                                        Mexico
                                     out of 
                                        Texas
                                    , and, at a later day, out of 
                                        California
                                    ; so that if I am a filibusterer my country is my
                                    tutor.
                     
                  
               
                
            It is not known by what method or at what time General Bickley set about to
                    extend the organization. According to his own statements, sometime before the
                    outbreak of the war he went south to settle his mother's estate. His
                    brother-in-law, Eli Kinney,14 says that before the outbreak
                    of the War Bickley had left his wife and was in the south. Judging from the
                    document which was found among his effects when captured, and from the rapid
                    extension of the order in the south and especially in 
                        Texas
                    , General Bickley must have devoted most of his time after 1854 to
                    the propagation of this filibustering association. In September, 1859, he issued
                    from 
                        Washington, D.C.
                    , as "Headquarters of the American Legion K.G.C.",
                    a proclamation in which he proposed the invasion of Mexico by a new and vigorous
                    race, and appealed to the young men of the country by declaring that the K.G.C.
                    opened for them a new field of industry and enterprise. "This
                    continent," he said, "belongs to one people; that people is
                    the Anglo-American." The extent to which this proclamation was made
                    public can not be ascertained.
            The first definite information of a public nature regarding the order is found in
                    the Mobile Mercury of April 6, 1860. In this issue appeared a
                    general order from the commander which indicates, to some extent, the spread of
                    the society and its seeming strength in the south. The general order, No. 546,
                    called for a meeting of the delegates, of the various lodges or castles15 at 
                  Raleigh, North
                    Carolina
               , for May 7, 1860, at which time the following
                    business would be transacted: election of a permanent commander of the military
                    department of the K.G.C., a financial secretary, and a president of the
                    governing department; the determination of the equipment and the time of motion;
                    and the preparation of an address to the people of the southern States.
            The call stated that no political or religious question then disturbing the
                    country would be entertained by the convention. When the business of the session
                    was completed they were to 
                  
                     14
                            Ibid, sworn statement of Eli Kinney before provost
                            marshal.
                  
                     15 Local lodges were called
                            "Castles" or "Temples".
               
                     adjourn "to meet no more as a
                    convention in the 
                        United States
                    ."
            The Mercury, in an editorial of the same date, says of this
                    call: 
                        General George Bickley, through our columns today, Issues a general order
                            to the members of his organization. The papers of the south are
                            respectfully requested to extend the order as a matter of service and
                            favor to thousands who belong to the order throughout the southern
                            States. The purpose of this order has been so far revealed as to
                            vindicate it from the suspicion of filibusterism, and to commend it to
                            the favor of thousands who cherish all objects calculated to redound to
                            the glory and Interest of our beloved south.
                    
                
            When General Bickley in the call stated that the political questions about to
                    divide the north and south were to have no place in the deliberations at 
                        Raleigh
                    , he intended either to blind the eyes of the north as to the true
                    purpose of the meeting, or he had not estimated accurately the state of mind of
                    the membership, as indicated in the address issued to the people of the south at
                    the close of the session.
            This address16 declared that the possesion of Mexico by the
                    south was absolutely necessary to the maintenance of political equality in the
                    union. It contained an eloquent description of the fruitfulness of 
                        Mexico
                    , the fertility of her soil, her undeveloped capacity for the
                    production of cotton, sugar and tobacco, the suitableness of her climate for
                    slave labor, the enormous wealth of the Romish church, and the advantage of
                    confiscating three hundred million dollars to the use of the K.G.C. It estimated
                    the entire membership of the order at 48,000, and the military force at 18,000.
                    It declared the plans of the K.G.C., in regard to 
                        Mexico
                    , to be temporarily postponed but not abandoned; and concluded with
                    the statement: 
                        That the southern governor will have use for us in the next six months is
                            confidently expected. If so, the K.G.C. may find its 
                                Mexico
                             in the 
                                District of Columbia
                            .
                    
                
            This address indicates a very decided change in the policy of the organization.
                    The change is further emphasized by an open letter to the K.G.C.'s in
                    the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Whig of July 7, 
                  
                     16
                            An Authentic Exposition of the Knights of the Golden
                            Circle, pamphlet published by U. S. National U.C., Feb.,
                        1862.
               
                     1860, in which General Bickley urged the
                    south to assist in carrying out the plans of the order. He argued that the
                    county was divided into two parts—northern and
                    southern—and that reconciliation was impossible. "With 
                        Mexico
                     Americanized and southernized, the south will equal in territory
                    the north." He pleaded with the slave-holders to lend financial
                    assistance to the movement, promising them that 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        No more negroes will be spirited away on the famous Underground
                                    Railroad. There will not be a free negro in the southern States
                                    in 1870, and your cotton production will be fifteen instead of
                                    five million bales.
                     
                  
               
                
            This same letter contained the names of a number of citizens from various
                    sections of the south, and the names of banks in six different cities in these
                    States to which donations could be sent. It also stated that donations could be
                    sent directly to Colonel N. J. Scott of 
                  Auburn, Alabama
               , who was paymaster general and financial secretary
                    of the organization.
            The long list of names and the various banks mentioned to which funds could be
                    sent, indicate that the order by 1860 was pretty well represented in the several
                    slave States. The ritual issued in 1859 asserted that in September of that year,
                    there were 250 working castles embracing 15,000 members, and that at least
                    two-thirds of these expected to go to 
                        Mexico
                     with the expedition. There is no evidence to prove this estimate
                    false and none to substantiate it. Careful investigation has been made in the
                    south, but insufficient evidence has been found to warrant any definite
                    statement as to the extent of the order, further than that it existed in
                            
                  Kentucky, Arkansas, Alabama
               , and 
                        Texas
                    ; the latter State being the most fertile field for its growth.
            The rapid development of the society in 
                        Texas
                     can be accounted for by its geographical position. Bordering on 
                        Mexico
                    , that State was naturally the drill ground for filibustering
                    expeditions. Here such schemes could find a most loyal and enthusiastic support.
                    From here such expeditions could most advantageously invade 
                        Mexico
                    . Moreover, the unsettled condition of politics in that State and
                    the antagonism between the pro-slavery and anti-slavery elements added an
                    influence in favor of a secret political organization.
            The headquarters of the K.G.C. in 
                        Texas
                     were at San  Antonio17 where two lodges or castles were established. A castle
                    was organized in almost every county.18 General Bickley took
                    an active personal interest in the society in this State. The funds of the order
                    were applied to the purchase of arms, accoutrements, and ammunition. It was
                    estimated on good authority that 8,000 well equipped men could be brought into
                    the field on four days' notice. When first established in 
                        Texas
                    , in 1856, the intention of the organization was simply and solely
                    that of a filibustering expedition into 
                        Mexico
                    ; but in 1860 when the question of secession was before the people
                    of the State, the order became the instrument for the defense of slavery in 
                        Texas
                    . Although the membership was really insignificant when compared to
                    the voting population of the State, its perfect organization and its vow of
                    secrecy made the society strong enough in 
                        Texas
                     to control the policy of the Democratic party in the election of
                    1860.
            Nothing further is known concerning the history of the order prior to the
                    outbreak of the war, except that during those days when the southern States were
                    organizing themselves into a confederacy the Knights of the Golden Circle was a
                    subject of frequent comment in the Confederate capitol at 
                        Montgomery
                    .19 It is manifest, however, that the society
                    could have no place as a filibustering scheme in the midst of the great and
                    all-absorbing movement of secession. Nor was there any place for its operations
                    in the heart of the Confederacy, even as an organization in sympathy with
                    secession, for secret societies find no soil where the people are so unanimously
                    of one opinion. The only field in which it could operate successfully as an ally
                    of the confederacy or as an opponent of the federal administration was the
                    immediate territory on each side of the Mason and Dixon line where the sentiment
                    of the people was about equally divided between the north and the south, and
                    where bitter local animosities were greatly intensified by this division of
                    sentiment on national issues.
            
               
                  17 Moore's Rebellion
                        Records, Vol. XII, p. 110. Paper read before N.Y. Hist. Society, June
                        25, 1861, by Maj. J. T. Sprague.
               
                  18 Williams, Life of Sam Houston,
                        129.
               
                  19 Wm. Howard Russell, "My Diary
                            North and South", 185. Russell was correspondent for the 
                            London
                        
                        Times and wrote from 
                            Montgomery
                        , Ala., May 5, 1861: "I hear a good deal about the
                        Association called the Knights of the Golden Circle."
            
            
            General Bickley, as has been pointed out in the preceding chapter, declared,
                    prior to the Charleston meeting of the representatives of the order, that his
                    organization had no designs hostile to the government; that he intended to avoid
                    the political questions then disturbing the entire country; and that his sole
                    purpose was the acquisition of foreign territory by force of arms, and the
                    introduction into that territory of immigrants from the southern States. The
                    manifesto of the Charleston meeting, however, indicated clearly the sympathy of
                    the organization for the southern cause. The general, a man with more of
                    personal and selfish interest than devotion to a principle, seemed perfectly
                    willing to accept this change of view and to alter the constitution of the order
                    so that it would express this sympathy. All that was needed was a slight change
                    in the ritual. In 1861 this change was made and the rules, regulations, and
                    principles were made to declare that the acquisition of territory in 
                        Mexico
                     had, for its primary purpose, the extension of slavery and the
                    political equality of free and slave States.
            The First degree of the remodeled ritual reads in part:1
                    
                        The first field of our operation is 
                                Mexico
                            , but we hold it to be our duty to offer our services to any
                            southern State to repel a northern army. We hope such a contingency may
                            not occur; but whether the union is reconstructed or not, the southern
                            States must foster any scheme having for its object the Americanization
                            and southernization of Mexxico, so that in either case our success will
                            be certain.
                    
                
            In the Third, or Political degree, called the "Knights of the Columbian
                    Star" the qualifications for membership indicate, even more clearly,
                    the adaptation of the order to meet the demands of the south. The candidate was
                    required to be familiar with the work of the two former degrees, to be a native
                    of a slave State, or if of a free State, to be a citizen of a slave State, a
                    protestant and a slave-holder. A candidate who was born in a slave State was not
                    required to be a slave-holder 
                  
                     1
                            
                                Louisville
                            
                            Journal, July 18, 1861. The editor vouches for the
                            authenticity of the statements regarding the change in the
                        ritual.
               
                     provided he could give evidence of his
                    character as a southern man. The candidate for this degree was obliged to
                    promise assistance to any southern State which might be invaded by
                    abolitionists, to do all in his power to build up in his community a sentiment
                    favorable to the expulsion of free negroes, and, if he went to 
                        Mexico
                    , he was to use his influence to make it a slave state and to urge
                    its annexation to the 
                        United States
                    . After the candidate had taken the oath of secrecy, the secretary
                    explained to him that the whole purpose of the organization was the extension of
                    slavery and the establishment of a government in 
                        Mexico
                    .
            Fortified with this new purpose, that of giving aid to the south in case of
                    actual war, the K.G.C., with its element of secrecy, began its expansion into
                    the territory north of Mason and Dixon line, where, as has been stated, there
                    existed a strong sympathy for the southern cause. 
                        Kentucky
                    , where the sentiment was then evenly divided, furnished a fertile
                    field for its development. By August, 1861, it was claimed that the K.G.C. in
                    that State numbered at least 8,000.2 Castles were organized
                    in 
                        Marion
                    , 
                        Barron
                    , 
                        Daviess
                    , 
                        Christian
                    , and 
                        Henderson
                     counties. In 
                        Louisville
                     alone it was asserted that nearly or quite 3,000 were admitted into
                    the order, many of whom entered the Confederate service. In May, 1861, a
                    resolution was offered in the 
                        Kentucky
                     house of representatives calling for an investigation of the
                    Knights of the Golden Circle, particularly in regard to the introduction of arms
                    into the State. No investigations, however, were made.3 As
                    the war spirit increased and men began openly to espouse the cause of secession
                    and to take up arms to force the State out of the union, the need of a secret
                    order no longer existed in that State, and so the society was forced north of
                    the Mason and Dixon's line where sympathy for the Confederacy was
                    strong, but where it was held in subjection by the arm of the federal
                    government.
            A determined effort has been made to ascertain when, how, and by whom, the
                    organization of the Knights of the Golden Circle was introduced into the border
                    States north of the Ohio river, but the labor has resulted
                    in nothing more than 
                  
                     2
                            The Commonwealth, 
                                Frankfort
                            , Ky., July 31, 1861.
                  
                     3
                            The Southern Bivouac, Vol. II, p. 641.
               
                     a strong supposition based upon rather
                    insufficient evidence. Local tradition in 
                        Orange County
                     Indiana, attributes the establishment and, in fact, the origin of
                    the order to Dr. William A. Bowles of that county,4 who in
                    1864 was tried before a military commission at 
                        Indianapolis
                     for treason and sentenced to be hanged. The career of this man
                    lends some color to this local tradition. He had a very decided sympathy for the
                    southern cause. His wife was a native of 
                        New Orleans
                     and the owner of a number of slaves which she brought to her
                    Indiana home in 1858. The presence of these slaves aroused great indignation in
                    the community and Dr. Bowles was compelled by the courts of the county to send
                    them back to 
                        New Orleans
                    . He had served as a colonel in the Second Indiana volunteers in the
                    Mexican war and to him was attributed the disgraceful retreat of the Indiana
                    troops at 
                        Buena Vista
                    . His experience in 
                        Mexico
                    , his belief in slavery, his southern relations, his wealth, and his
                    natural liking for intrigue fitted him well for the work of promoting a secret
                    association whose filibustering purpose of seizing and Americanizing 
                        Mexico
                     had given way temporarily to the more immediate purpose of securing
                    peace betwen the two sections, even at the cost of separation.
            When the rebellion began Dr. Bowles made no attempt to conceal his sympathy for
                    the south. He wrote to his wife, who was then in 
                        New Orleans
                    : 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        If Kentucky had gone out at the proper time, southern Indiana
                                    would have been with her today—if not the whole
                                        state.5
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            He expressed a desire to join the southern army, but his health was such that he
                    feared he would be of little service, so he decided to remain in the north to
                    protect his property and be of use to the south in the enemy's
                    territory. From the outset of the war he was active in the propagation of these
                    secret societies which opposed the administration; and it is fair to suppose
                    that he had much to do with the introduction of the Knights of the Golden Circle
                    into the border States.
            Rumors of secret conspiracies are found in many of the northern papers during the
                    year 1860, but in most cases they 
                  
                     4 West Baden, Ind, Journal, Feb.
                            10, 1903.
                  
                     5 Foulke, Life of Oliver P.
                            Morton, Vol. I, p. 380.
               
                     refer to the general movement of the
                    southern leaders toward secession. On January 9, 1861, a select committee of
                    five was appointed in the federal house of representatives 
                        To inquire whether any secret organization hostile to the government of
                            the 
                                United States
                             exists in the 
                                District of Columbia
                            ; and, if so, whether any officials or employes of the city
                            of 
                                Washington
                             or of the federal government in the executive or judicial
                            department are members thereof.
                    
                
            The committee met and examined a number of witnesses among whom were the mayor of 
                        Washington
                     and the clerk of the circuit court of 
                        Baltimore
                    . The former, in reply to the question as to whether he knew of a
                    secret order called the Knights of the Golden Circle, denied all knowledge of
                    its existence. Other witnesses were questioned in the same manner. Some admitted
                    that they had heard of it as a filibustering organization after the style of
                    Walker's scheme, but did not know of its existence in 
                        Washington
                     or vicinity. In their report on February 14, 1861, the committee
                    said: 
                        The committee is unanimously of the opinion that the evidence produced
                            before them does not prove the existence of a secret organization here
                            or elsewhere, hostile to the government that has for its object an
                            attack upon the Oapital.6
                  
                    
                
            This report, however, did not allay the popular belief that southern emissaries
                    were quietly and successfully building up a secret society in the north which
                    would soon be a serious menace to the government.
            In Indiana, within a month after the attack on Fort Sumter, the existence of the
                    K.G.C. was strongly suspected in 
                        Wayne
                     and other counties, and measures were taken to counteract its
                        operations.7 In July, 1861, an anonymous pamphle
                    entitled "An Authentic Exposition of the
                    K.G.C." was published at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This pamphlet, while it was written by one who claimed to be a
                    member and created considerable comment through the press at the time, is, in
                    most respects, worthless as an authority regarding the organization. In
                    September, 1861, John C. Brain, a professional artist, who was wandering about 
                        Michigan City
                    , Indiana, was arrested, charged with being a spy in the service of
                    the rebels, and a "member of the disloyal secret order-known as the
                    Knights 
                  
                     6
                            House Report, No. 79, 36th Cong., 2nd Sess.
                  
                     7 W. H. H. Terrell, Adj. Gen. Indiana, Report, Vol. I, p. 294.
               
                     of the Golden Circle." The
                    evidence produced on his examination proved that he had made efforts to induce
                    men to join the order. He was sent to Fort Warren and there detained some five
                    or six months.8
            
            In December, 1861, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal
               9 claimed that a secret society had
                    been organized in the State of Indiana for the purpose of opposing the war and
                    defeating all attempts to sustain it by taxation; that it was undoubtedly an
                    offshoot of the K.G.C. organization adapted to that latitude; and that it
                    existed in 
                  Indianapolis,
                            Rockville, Madison, Sullivan, Vincennes
               , and 
                        Greencastle
                    , as well as in eastern 
                        Illinois
                    .
            Before the middle of the year 1861, Governor Oliver P. Morton was confident of
                    the existence of the order in the State and began a system of espionage which in
                    1863 and 1864 resulted in its complete exposure. By May, 1862, sufficient
                    evidence had been obtained to justify an investigation into the character,
                    purposes and movements of the order by the grand jury of the 
                        United States
                     circuit court. Witnesses were summoned before the jury from every
                    part of the State. Newly enlisted soldiers were secretly given leave of absence
                    and sent back to their homes to become members of the lodges in order to report
                    their operations. In many sections of the State these witnesses found castles
                    active and fully organized. Regular meetings were being held and military drill
                    practiced. One castle of sixty or seventy members in 
                        Brown County
                    , was being effectively trained in military tactics. After an
                    examination of these witnesses from the different parts of the State, the grand
                    jury made an elaborate report in which it said:10
                    
                        A secret oath-bound organization exists, numbering some fifteen thousand
                            in Indiana, as estimated by the members of their order, commonly known
                            as the Knights of the Golden Circle. Their lodges or castles, as they
                            denominate them, are located in various parts of the State; yet they
                            have common signs, grips, and words whereby the members are all able to
                            recognize each other, and pass-words to enable the member to enter the
                            castle in which he was initiated or any other which he may choose to
                            visit.
                    
                
            
               
                  8
                        O. R. II, Vol. II, p. 711.
               
                  9
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Daily Journal, Dec. 30, 1861.
               
                  10 W. H. H. Terrell, Adj. Gen. Indiana,
                        1861–65 Report, Vol. I, p. 295.
            
            
            After alluding to the filibustering origin of the order the report continues:
                        
                        Said grand jury has abundant evidence of the membership binding
                            themselves to resist the payment of the federal tax and to prevent
                            enlistment in the army of the 
                                United States
                            . In localities where the organization extensively prevails
                            there has been a failure to furnish a fair proportion of volunteers. The
                            meetings of the order are held in by-places, sometimes in the woods, and
                            at other times in deserted houses; its members frequently attend with
                            arms in their hands, and in almost every instance armed sentinels are
                            posted to keep off intruders. The credulous and unwary are often allured
                            into the fold of the order upon the pretext that it was instituted for
                            no other purpose than the better organization of the Democratic
                        party.
                    
                
            As a result of the three weeks session of the grand jury sixty indictments were
                    returned, sixteen of which were for treason, eighteen for conspiracy to take and
                    possess the property of the 
                        United States
                    , and thirteen for conspiracy to defeat operations of the law.
            This report, published on August 4, 1862, naturally excited much alarm throughout
                    the State. The Democratic leaders at once declared that this was merely a move
                    by the party in power to insure a Republican victory in the October elections.
                    The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, the Democratic organ of the State, denied any
                    knowledge of the existence of such an association and every effort was made by
                    the Democratic press and by the party organization to counteract the effect of
                    this report of the grand jury. The Republicans on the other hand found it a most
                    excellent party weapon, and they did not use it lightly. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, on the day the report was made public, started off
                    with an editorial which said: 
                        Nothing so seriously affecting the public safety of the government has
                            been developed since the outbreak of the rebellion. A secret association
                            exits in Indiana of 15,000 men, sworn to resist federal taxation and
                            military enlistments, prepared by signs to recognize and assist each
                            other and to recognize and protect members of similar organizations in
                            the rebel army, and meeting with arms in their hands and under
                            protection of armed sentinels. So gigantic a conspiracy is second only
                            to the rebellion of which it is an offshoot. The grand jury has sent to
                            places where castles of the order were believed to exist, brought to
                            this city the men suspected of belonging to it, put them on oath and
                            forced out of them ward by word 
                            confessions which are embodied in the revelations now made. Signs, grips
                            and pass-words were revealed by witnesses. Some of the grand jury, in
                            order to satisfy themselves by experiment, mixed with the crowd at the
                                convention11 on last Wednesday and the signs
                            they had learned were recognized and returned by about one hundred
                                persons.12
                  
                    
                
            In his speech before the Republican State convention, which was held June 18,
                    while the grand jury was still in session, Governor Morton warned the men of
                    Indiana against factions and secret organizations. He declared that he had
                    undeniable evidence from several sources of the existence of secret societies in
                    the State of a dangerous character whose purpose was aid and comfort to the
                    southern traitors.13 Republican papers published many
                    improbable stories regarding the secret conclaves of the Knights and reported
                    many instances of the midnight meetings of the lodges in dark and secluded
                    places. Politicians from the governor down harped long and loudly on these
                    evidences of "Democratic duplicity."
            Assert as strongly as they might the treasonable character of this organization
                    and its intimate relation to the Democratic party, the Republicans were unable
                    to stem the tide of Democratic victory in October, 1862. The success of the
                    Democrats in this election, however, can not be interpreted as a refusal on the
                    part of the people to believe in the existence of these orders, for many adverse
                    circumstances assisted to overthrow the Republican party. The defeat of
                    Pope's army in the Peninsula; the absence of so many voters who had
                    joined the ranks; the unpoplarity of the draft—all were powerful
                    influences against the administration. The Republicans hoped that their cry
                    against this treasonable organization would overcome these unfavorable
                    influences, but this weapon failed to have the desired effect. It was evident
                    that the people did not accept all the extravagant statements of the partisan
                    press and platform. A Democratic state ticket and legislature were elected
                    thoroughly hostile to Morton and not at all in sympathy with the administration
                    at 
                        Washington
                    . The Republicans declared that the victory was accomplished by
                    means of the K.G.C. organization, and that a majority of the members of the
                    legislature were members of the society in good 
                  
                     11 Democratic State Convention, Aug. 4, 1862.
                  
                     13 Foulke, Life of Morton, Vol.
                            I, p. 206.
               
                     standing. While these declarations were
                    extravagant and unwarranted, it is a well known fact that the members of the
                    K.G.C. supported the Democratic candidates and that a majority in the
                    legislature, while denying the existence of a treasonable order, sometimes
                    admitted the existence of a secret organization whose purpose was the protection
                    of a citizen against arbitrary arrests and against the machinations of the
                    "Union League," a secret society whose chief purpose,
                    according to their idea, was the enforcement of the will of a tyrannical
                    administration.
            On January 16, 1863, Mr. Thomas J. Cason, Republican representative from 
                        Boone county
                    , offered a resolution in the House ordering an investigation into
                    the secret political and military organization alleged to exist in that State
                    with the object of resisting the laws of the State and of the 
                        United States
                    . The question was laid on the table by a party vote.14 On January 20, 1863, Benjamin F. Gregory offered another resolution
                    in the House which read: 
                        
                     Whereas, it is reported and believed by many loyal
                            citizens in this State that there are many secret organizations or
                            societies formed and being formed, intended in their character and
                            nature to prejudice the minds of the loyal people of this State against
                            the further prosecution of the war for the suppression of the rebellion
                            in the land, therefore an act of justice to those against whom
                            disloyalty is charged, as well as an act of justice to the citizens of
                            the State of Indiana, and of the loyal people of the 
                                United States
                            , there be appointed from this House a special committee of
                            one from each congressional district in the State to investigate the
                            facts in relation to said secret organizations, with power to send for
                            persons and papers, who shall report their proceeding to this House.15
                  
                    
                
            Various objections were made to such an investigation— it would be
                    useless and expensive, no investigation should be made until facts had been
                    discovered to prove the existence of such societies, the resolution was based
                    upon a mere rumor originating with the abolition 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, an investigation would embitter partisan feeling and
                    cast a reflection upon the Democratic party, and finally, no one believed the
                    accusations which had been made. The proposition was laid on the table by
                    another strictly party vote.
            This conduct on the part of the Democratic House may 
                  
                     14
                            House Journal, Indiana, 43rd Sess., 1863, p. 120.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid, 128.
               
                     be interpreted in one of two ways: either
                    the majority knew little about the secret order and deemed the rumors so
                    groundless that they did not deserve the recognition of the House, or they
                    feared the exposure of an organization in close touch with the party in power,
                    including in its membership many Democrats. If the former supposition be the
                    true statement of the case then the Democratic party was playing bad politics,
                    for a refusal to grant an investigation only fixed more firmly in the minds of
                    the Republicans the belief that such an organization existed within the ranks of
                    the Democratic party. The bitter opposition of the legislature to the
                    administration of Governor Morton and, especially, to him personally, lent some
                    color to the accusation that the House and Senate were harboring many Knights of
                    the Golden Circle.
            On January 14, 1863, at a 
                        Union
                     meeting in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Governor Morton made a speech in which he gave the history of the
                    secret societies in Indiana. On the 24th, at a similar meeting in 
                        Shelbyville
                    , he denounced in strongest terms the K.G.C.'s. Again on
                    February 23, at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , he warned the people against their secret intrigues.16 He reminded them of the charge that the One Hundredth and Ninth 
                        Illinois
                     regiment, which had been recently disbanded by General Grant,17 was a Circle and that several regiments of Indiana troops
                    were not free from the baneful influence of the order. He urged the people to
                    throttle the public enemies, declaring that they would speedily be brought to
                    trial.
            During this time his agents were not idle. Spies throughout the State, were
                    keeping close watch upon the lodges and reporting every movement made by the
                    Knights. Col. Henry B. Carrington, mustering officer for Indiana, was busily
                    engaged in the effort to detect the operations of the secret societies in their
                    attempt to secure desertions from the army. In a despatch to Brigadier-General
                    L. Thomas, adjutant-general of the 
                        United States
                     army, on January 25, 1863, he confirmed the report which he had
                    previously sent to the secretary of war in June, 1862, that a treasonable
                    society existed in Indiana. He stated that nearly 2,600 deserters and stragglers
                        
                  
                     l6 Foulke, Life of Morton, Vol.
                            I, p. 234.
                  
                     17
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, Jan. 13, 1863.
               
                     had been arrested within a few weeks; that
                    most of the deserters, true to the oath of the order, deserted with their arms;
                    and that in one case seventeen had fortified themselves in a log cabin and were
                    being maintained by their neighbors.18 On March 20, 1863,
                    Colonel Carrington submitted to the secretary of war a memorandum on the
                    condition of public affairs in Indiana.19 In this report he
                    stated that the oath of the K.G.C. embodied three objects: securing the
                    desertion of soldiers with their arms and the protection of these deserters;
                    resisting further drafts and interfering with further enlistments; and stopping
                    the war. He said that the society assumed new force and significance in
                    December; the signs, grips, and passwords were changed; the obligations became
                    more directly treasonable; and the organization assumed military form and
                    purpose. A five pointed star was adopted as a sign of recognition in case the
                    State were invaded by the rebels. Night and day signals were provided by which
                    the members could rally to the assistance of a brother. The order had enjoined
                    upon its members thorough arming, and during February and March alone nearly
                    30,000 arms, consisting chiefly of revolvers, entered Indiana. Sixteen boxes
                    came from 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , under the guise of
                    household goods. One box from 
                        Cincinnati
                     was marked "pick-axes," another
                    "hardware," another "nails." The county
                    lodges drilled regularly. The membership of the order was estimated at 92,000,
                    and there were known lodges in every county but seven. Plans were discussed in
                    some of the lodges respecting the seizure of the arsenal, the railroads and the
                    telegraphs. Several lodges made it obligatory upon the members to resist the
                    draft. In conclusion this memorandum predicted serious violence if the tension
                    were not relieved and the people of the State permitted to become quiet again.
            On March 26, 1863, Governor Morton, who had gone to confer with the secretary of
                    war, telegraphed to Colonel Carrington that large shipments of arms were being
                    made from 
                        New York
                     for insurrectionary purposes. Colonel Carrington at once issued a
                    military order prohibiting the importation of 
                  
                     18
                            O. R. III, Vol. III, p. 19.
                  
                     19
                            O. R. II, Vol. V, p. 363.
               
                     weapons for secret organizations and
                    restricting the sale of arms.20
            
            Up to this time there had been little open and violent opposition to the
                    administration, but during the spring of 1863 many acts of violence occurred not
                    only against the enrolling officers but also against private citizens. Reports
                    of disloyal conduct came up from nearly every section of the State, especially
                    from the southern counties. A soldier on furlough at his home near French Lick
                    disappeared. His friends asserted that the Knights of the Golden Circle were his
                    murderers. A cavalry squadron, sent to 
                        Johnson county
                     to arrest deserters, was fired upon. This also was charged to the
                    knights. A Mr. Robe of Green township, 
                        Morgan county
                    , was killed by Sylvester Bailey and no provocation was given except
                    that Mr. Robe's son was a witness against the K. G. C.'s in
                    the examination before the grand jury at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In the attempt of the county grand jury to ascertain who the
                    murderer was a number of witnesses refused to testify regarding the work of the
                    secret order for fear of incriminating themselves. On April 13 a serious riot
                    occurred near Danville, Indiana, in which one man was killed. The riot was
                    brought about by a crowd of mounted men wearing butternuts, presumably Knights
                    of the Golden Circle. A farmer living in 
                        Union
                     township, 
                        Morgan county
                    , stated that on passing a schoolhouse in White
                    River township at two o'clock in the morning he saw in a
                    wood near the building a large number of horses hitched. He recognized them as
                    belonging to members of the order in the county. Scores of similar incidents
                    were reported through the Republican press from all parts of the State.
            The highest pitch of excitement, however, seems to have been reached in an
                    incident which occurred in the spring of 1863 in one of the back counties of the
                    State and a stronghold of Democracy. This incident21 was the
                    killing of Louis Prosser on April 18, 1863, by Captain Cunning, an officer of
                    the volunteers. The latter, with some three or four strong union men and
                    soldiers, had gone over to 
                        Brown County
                     to attend a union meeting to assist in reviving the spirit of
                    loyalty 
                  
                     20 Foulke, Life of Morton, Vol.
                            I, p. 385.
                  
                     21 Related by W. H. Smith, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Dec. 28, ‘02, an eyewitness of the
                        incident.
               
                     which seemed to be especially lacking in
                    that section of the State. Prosser was the leader of the Democracy in that
                    county and a former representative of the legislature. He was also at the head
                    of the Knights of the Golden Circle and an outspoken partisan of the rebellion.
                    Accompanied by a few armed followers he attended the union meeting. While
                    Captain Cunning was speaking Prosser shot and killed one of the soldiers who was
                    standing on the outskirts of the crowd. Captain Cunning, who saw him fire the
                    shot, drew his revolver, fired, and mortally wounded Prosser, whose followers
                    succeeded in carrying him away to the hills. Intense excitement prevailed. The
                    rumor spread that Governor Morton was sending a detachment of troops to capture
                    Prosser, dead or alive. His friends, supposedly all members of this secret
                    order, flocked to his hiding place to protect him from arrest. The next day
                    fifty armed men were seen drilling in 
                        Nashville
                    , the county seat, and a company of forty armed men from 
                        Jackson
                     and 
                        Bartholomew counties
                     passed through the town, going in the direction of
                    Prosser's home, with the evident intention of protecting him from
                    arrest and removal from the county. The testimony given before a commission,
                    appointed by the governor to investigate the affair, indicated a state of
                    anarchy in the county and an evident intention on the part of the members of the
                    secret organization to oppose in every possible way the enforcement of the law.
                    Men all over the southern half of the State went armed. The Journal declared: 
                        The news comes up from every part of the State that the K.G.C. are
                            supplying themselves with arms. Immense quantities of revolvers and
                            bowie knives are shipped from this city to 
                                Cincinnati
                             and other parts of the State. They are sent into country
                            neighborhoods in lots of ten to one hundred, showing that companies and
                            societies are all being armed.22
                    
                
            So frequent had these acts of violence become in some of the southern counties of
                    the State and so many rumors were set afloat concerning supposed raids of the
                    KG.C.'s that whole communities were kept in a constant state of alarm
                    and excitement. In 
                        Washington county
                    , where the order was unusually strong, the slightest rumor of the
                    movements of 
                  
                     22
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, March 12, 1863.
               
                     the Knights led the union sympathizers to
                    barricade their houses or flee to safer quarters in the adjoining county.23
            
            Unfortunately for the general situation, the federal government was forced to
                    resort to the draft in the spring and summer of 1863. This only added fuel to
                    the flame. In no section of the north did this exercise of the war power create
                    more disturbance than in Indiana. Partisan spirit, which had been aroused by the
                    State draft in the fall of 1863, came to a white heat when the federal
                    government asserted the right to levy upon the individual States. Protests
                    against draft, and particularly the commutation clause, were the topics of
                    conversation at all gatherings, and these protests soon ripened into threats of
                    opposition by force of arms. Enrolling officers were fired upon and a number
                    were killed. Draft boxes were destroyed, enrollment papers were burned, and
                    vigilant committees were organized to protect men who resisted the draft.
                    Finally Governor Morton was forced to issue a proclamation (June 11, 1863)
                    setting forth the law regarding opposition to the draft and warning citizens of
                    the State against infractions of that law. He took occasion to admonish the
                    people against the unbridled license of speech which was driving many into
                    dangerous secret societies, whose purpose was the weakening of the government
                    and the strengthening of the enemy's cause.24
            
            Naturally, but without sufficient justification, the supporters of the
                    administration attributed most of the violence of the times to the Knights of
                    the Golden Circle. If a fisticuff took place in front of a rural church or a
                    country school-house the partisan press cited it as another illustration of the
                    machinations of the secret "emissaries of Jeff Davis." No
                    doubt members of the order were implicated in many of these outrages, but there
                    were many disturbances with which the Knights had nothing to
                    do—disturbances which found their cause in purely local and personal
                    jealousies, or sprang out of temporary excitement. Men's emotions were
                    kindled to fever heat during those days. They had abnormal feelings of 
                  
                     23 Statement of Supt. E. K. Koffman, 
                                Salem
                            , Ind., July 30, 1903. See report of Adj. Gen.
                            1861–65, Vol. I, pp. 278–293. Gen. Terrell here
                            gives a long list of the outrages and riots which he presumably
                            attributes to the K.G.C.
                  
                     24 W. H. H. Terrell, Adj. Gen. Indiana, Report, Vol. I, p. 288.
               
                     patriotism and loyalty. Their opinions were
                    radical, and he that dared utter the slightest protest against the policy of the
                    administration was condemned by all loyal citizens and classed with the group of
                    offenders indiscriminately called "traitors, butternuts, and
                    copperheads."
            Coupled with the serious acts of violence cited above, and the disposition of
                    many to cripple the hands of the administration, were other attempts on the part
                    of the opponents of the war which resulted most ludicrously to the members of
                    the Knights of the Golden Circle. One of these was an incident which occurred in 
                        Indianapolis
                     known as the "Battle of Pogue's Run."
                    The Democrats had called a mass meeting for 
                        Indianapolis
                     on May 20, 1863. A number of prominent Democrats, not only from
                    Indiana but from the neighboring States, were announced as speakers, among them
                    Congressman C. L. Vallandigham of 
                        Ohio
                    , Gov. Horatio Seymour of 
                        New York
                    , and Sen. Daniel W. Voorhees of Indiana. The evident purpose of the
                    meeting, at least in the minds of the Democratic leaders, was a protest against
                    the administration and the war. But the radicals and the members of the secret
                    organizations took advantage of this meeting for an armed demonstration. Word
                    was sent to the lodge urging them to come armed and prepared for emergencies.
                    The understanding was that an attack would be made on the State arsenal and Camp
                    Morton, and that the prisoners would be released and armed. Members of a number
                    of castles obeyed the order with alacrity. Arms and ammunition were concealed on
                    their persons and in wagons. One castle sent a delegation of twenty or more from 
                        Sullivan county
                     fully equipped for such an enterprise.25 They
                    camped on the outskirts of the city, leaving their munitions of war hidden under
                    the hay. The mass meeting was a large one, numbering some ten or twelve
                    thousand, of whom probably three thousand were armed. Governor Morton was fully
                    informed of the warlike preparation on the part of the society by his spies, who
                    were acquainted with almost every lodge. A small federal force which was in 
                        Indianapolis
                     at the time, under the command of Gen. Milo Haskall, together with
                        
                  
                     25 Statement of John A. Spence, Aug. 3, 1902. A
                            member of the delegation from 
                                Sullivan
                             Co.
               
                     the union paroled prisoners at Camp
                    Carrington, were organized and placed under command of Col. John Coburn. They
                    were stationed about the city to protect government property and suppress
                    riotous demonstrations. Several companies were placed at the Circle, in the
                    center of the city, two blocks from the statehouse yard, where the meeting was
                    to be held. A cannon was placed in position to command the statehouse.
            The meeting was called to order by Daniel W. Voorhees. Mr. Vallandigham, accused
                    of insurrection, had been arrested at 
                  Dayton, Ohio
               , some days before by order of Gen. Ambrose E.
                    Burnside. This fact furnished Mr. Voorhees an excellent text for his attack on
                    the administration. "One man there would have been in our midst
                    today," he said, "an honored guest, one whom you all expected
                    to see here on this occasion, but he has fallen a little sooner than the rest of
                    us, perhaps a victim to the base usurpation which has taken the place of public
                    rights and of the constitution."26 Speeches were
                    also made by Joseph E. McDonald and Thomas A. Hendricks. The tenor of all of the
                    addresses was the usurpation of power and the tyranny of the State and federal
                    officials. None of the speakers, however, advised armed resistance to the
                    government. While the meeting was in session troops were stationed about the
                    statehouse grounds. It is easy to conceive that they more than carried out their
                    orders to prevent a demonstration. They became insolent, taunted the
                    "copperheads," encircled the crowd and prevented egress,
                    called for three cheers for 
                        Lincoln
                     and the flag, and in various ways disturbed the meeting as only
                    soldiers can whose sense of authority and egotism has developed more rapidly
                    than their sense of fair play and their knowledge of the rights of the
                    individual citizen. Their insolence increased with the enthusiasm of the crowd.
                    About four o'clock in the afternoon, while Mr. Hendricks was speaking,
                    some eight or ten soldiers with bayonets fixed and rifles cocked entered the
                    crowd and slowly advanced to the stand.27 This created much
                    excitement among the Democrats. Mr. Hendricks hastened to close his remarks, the
                        
                  
                     26 Foulke, Life of Morton, Vol.
                            I, p. 273.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid, 274.
               
                     chairman called for the report of the
                    committee on resolutions, and the meeting adjourned. The enthusiasm of the
                    Democrats gave way to intense anger at this interruption of a public meeting of
                    a free people by a few insolent soldiers. Their wrath, which vented itself on
                    the street, only added fuel to the flame, for it furnished the over-zealous
                    soldiers with an excuse for arresting the would-be traitors and hurrying them
                    off to the guard-house.
            When the meeting was over and the trains were leaving the city a shot was fired
                    from a car on the 
                        Lafayette
                     or 
                        Terre Haute
                     railroad.
            
                    The intention to create an armed disturbance now seemed clear, and the
                        soldiers determined to give the remaining butternuts a lesson. When the
                        Indiana Central train left the station a cannon was placed in front of it.
                        The train stopped. A small body of soldiers was collected and a policeman,
                        accompanied by the soldiers, demanded the surrender of all firearms in
                        possession of the passengers. Nearly 200 weapons were given up. The train to 
                            Cincinnati
                         was also stopped, revolvers were taken and many others were
                        thrown by their owners into Pogue's Run at the side of the track.
                        Weapons had been given to the women in the belief that they would not be
                        searched. Seven were found upon one woman. A knife nearly two feet long was
                        discovered in the stove of one of the cars. In all about five hundred
                        revolvers were taken from those who had attended the meeting.28
               
                
            The ludicrous ending of the peace meeting produced a feeling of deep chagrin and
                    anger in the minds of the Democrats whether they were connected with the
                    treasonable plans of the order or not. Nor is this to be wondered at. No doubt
                    the officials winked at the conduct of the soldiers who had as much to do with
                    the bloodless battle as did the K.G.C.'s. On the following day the Sentinel in an editorial declared that Indiana was as
                    completely under military rule as 
                  France,
                            Austria
                or Russia,
                    while the Journal glorified over the discomfiture of the
                    traitorous schemes of the Knights of the Golden Circle.
            The humiliating results of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     peace meeting, the victories of the union armies during the summer
                    of 1863, and the raid of John Morgan in July practically put an end to the
                    Knights of the Golden Circle in the State. Repeated 
                  
                     28
                            Ibid, 276.
               
                     statements were made at the time and
                    afterwards that 
                        Morgan
                     was in communication with the Knights, that they knew definitely of
                    his plans, and that he was promised assistance by them upon his entrance into
                    the State. The fact that there was an understanding of some kind among the
                    Knights, to the effect that their lives and property should be protected in case
                    of a raid into the north by a southern army, is evident from the use of the lone
                    star which was worn by the members under the lapel of the coat and hung in the
                    windows of their homes as a protection to their property, but there is no
                    evidence that 
                        Morgan
                     expected any assistance or that they knew of his intentions. Gen.
                    Basil Duke, second in command during the raid, says that they met only two or
                    three members of the order in Indiana, and that they expected and received no
                    assistance from the order whatever.29
            
            The Knights of the Golden Circle were more numerous in Indiana than in any other
                    northern State; but the number of lodges will never be known, since there was no
                    central authority to whom reports could be sent, and minutes of the local
                    societies were either not kept at all or were destroyed when the governor
                    exposed the order. Lodges were evidently established in nearly all the southern
                    counties of the State, especially in the counties of 
                  Harrison, Washington, Jennings, Martin, Daviess,
                            Orange
               , and 
                        Brown
                    . One lodge was established in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , a number were reported from 
                  Boone, Huntington, Allen, Dekalb,
                            Randolph
               , and 
                        Wayne counties
                    . But as an association the Knights of the Golden Circle in Indiana
                    showed a lack of close organization and accomplished little more than to bring
                    upon its members, and unjustly upon the Democratic party, the condemnation of
                    the supporters of the war for the preservation of the union.
            The history of the Knights in the other sections of the country is of less
                    importance than in Indiana, for that State was the storm center of such
                    movements during the war. But public apprehension was early aroused in other
                    States because of the threatened danger from these secret enemies of the
                    government. Early in the fall of 1861 southern 
                        Illinois
                     was brought to the attention of the authorities at 
                        Washington
                    
                    
                  
                     29 Statement of Gen. Basil Duke, March 28,
                        1903.
               
                     as being a fertile field for the
                    propagation of secession. On December 5, 1861, Secretary William H. Seward wrote
                    to David L. Phillips, 
                        United States
                     marshal for the district of 
                        Illinois
                    , saying: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        It is represented to this department that there is strong ground
                                    for the belief that treasonable organizations are in existence
                                    in the southern part of the State of 
                                        Illinois
                                    . You will please send a proper person to that
                                    quarter to examine into the truth of the matter and in case any
                                    well-founded evidence should be discovered against any person or
                                    persons you will give notice to this department by post. In
                                    cases which will not admit of delay, however, you will arrest
                                    the person, secure his papers, and give immediate notice by
                                    telegraph to this department.30
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            On February 23 Mr. Phillips made his report to Secretary Seward, enclosing the
                    report of one of his assistants, A. J. Davis, whom he had sent into the southern
                    counties of the State to make investigation. Davis reported at length concerning
                    fourteen well known sympathizers in the counties of 
                  Washington, Jefferson, Hamilton
               ,
                    and Williamson, ten of whom were members of the K.G.C. He named William Dodd of
                    Mount Vernon, clerk of the county courts, who initiated him into the order;
                    Henry Williams of 
                        Spring
                     Garden, a leading citizen and member of the same castle, who had
                    attempted to raise a company for the rebel army; Dr. Clemerson, prosecuting
                    attorney for 
                        Williamson
                     county, a native of 
                        Georgia
                    , and the leader of the K.G.C. in that county. Mr. Phillips advised
                    the arrest of all these men as "malicious and devilish enemies of the
                    government." He thought the arrest of a few of the leaders would hold
                    in check the treasonable element in that part of the State.31
            
            In the early part of 1862 the "M. P.'s" or
                    "Mutual Protection Society" was organized in and around
                            
                  Paris, Illinois
               . Their secrets were
                    exposed by the editor of the local paper. A crowd of the members came into 
                        Paris
                     for the purpose of getting satisfaction from the editor, but they
                    found the Democrats as well as Republicans ready to protect him.32
            
            The political interest of the State, in the spring of 1862, was centered in the
                    constitutional convention which sat in 
                  
                     30
                            O. R. II, Vol. II, p. 270.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid, 241.
                  
                     32 Daily 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 State Journal, Aug. 28, 1862.
               
                    
                    
                        Springfield
                    . Rumors were afloat concerning the disloyalty of some of its
                    members. The correspondent for the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune wrote: 
                        It has been rumored around for some days that there are many Knights of
                            the Golden Circle and members of the Mutual Protection society in the
                            convention. The number of the K.G.C. has been placed so high as to come
                            within a few votes of a majority of the convention.33
                  
                    
                
            In order to quiet the public apprehension regarding the influence of the order in
                    the convention a committee was appointed on February 13 to investigate the
                    charges. On March 20 the committee reported that the rumors had no foundation.
                    It is not at all probable that the order had any influence in the deliberations.
            During the summer of 1862 the government still continued to keep a close watch on
                    the secret organization. Marshal Phillips reported that the midnight meetings
                    were held in various parts of the southern counties and that as many as five
                    hundred persons had been in attendance at one meeting. He further stated that
                    the K.G.C. claimed to have lodges in every county in the State and a membership
                    of at least 20,000 men.34 During the summer months Phillips
                    made numerous arrests, most of which were for treasonable utterances and for
                    membership in the K.G.C. Investigations were also made by Major Merrell, provost
                    marshal in southern 
                        Illinois
                    . A full report of these investigations appears in the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune for August 25, 1862, under the caption the
                    "Cairo Expose." While the report is evidently exaggerated and
                    the depositions printed indicate that the testimony came chiefly from men of
                    little education, they show a widespread disaffection in the southern part of
                    the State. Strong castles were reported in 
                        Perry
                    , 
                        Jersey
                    , 
                        Jefferson
                    , 
                        Franklin
                    , 
                        LaSalle
                    , 
                        Jackson
                    , and 
                        Williamson
                     counties. Depositions were taken and members testified that they
                    had joined the organization with the definite understanding that the object of
                    the society was to lend assistance to the southern cause and to oppose the
                    "abolition" war then going on. In some cases names of members
                    were given and the membership of castles reported, varying from seventy to four
                    hundred.
            
               
                  33
                        
                            Chicago
                        
                        Daily Tribune, Feb. 11, 1862.
               
                  34
                        Ibid, Aug. 23, 1862.
            
            
            The Carbondale Times, a Democratic paper, commenting on this
                    expose, estimated the membership in 
                        Illinois
                     at 30,000. A month later the same paper declared that it had no
                    doubt of the existence of the order in southern 
                        Illinois
                    , and that it believed its main purpose was to give aid and comfort
                    to the enemies of the government.35 The 
                        Illinois
                    
                    Journal, in discussing this statement, said: 
                        The existence of an order in the south bearing the name of "The
                            Knights of the Golden Circle" was proved beyond a doubt months
                            ago. Its original object was the conquest of 
                                Mexico
                             and Central America. On the election of 
                                Lincoln
                             it became the chief instrument in fomenting rebellion
                            against the government, and for the establishment of a Confederacy based
                            upon negro slavery. A damning stigma upon the Democratic party is that
                            none but Democrats joined the order. Many Democrats unhesitatingly
                            condemn this treasonable association. Many have been seduced into the
                            organization who, upon discovering its treasonable tendencies, have
                            promptly withdrawn.36
                  
                    
                
            Nothing resulted from the "Cairo Expose" further than to arouse
                    the people in the southern part of the State to an abnormal sense of their
                    danger, and to hasten the organization of 
                        Union
                     societies (Loyal Leagues and others), in opposition to the K.G.C.,
                    and for the support of the union and the war.
            The existence of this secret treasonable society in the Democratic counties and
                    the convincing evidence that many prominent Democrats were members furnished the
                    Republican press and platform in 
                        Illinois
                     with most excellent material for the fall campaign of 1862. About
                    the middle of July the 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune began the cry of "traitors, copperheads, and
                    secessionists." This cry grew more and more clamorous as the campaign
                    progressed. No effort was spared to give the public full details of all the
                    outrages supposed to have been committed in the name of the order. The matter
                    occupied a leading place in each day's edition; special reporters were
                    sent to the southern part of the State to investigate the situation, and,
                    naturally, they made their stories as extravagant as possible. But, as in
                    Indiana, this excellent campaign weapon failed to have sufficient force to
                    overcome the results of the calamities in the field and the widespread
                    dissatisfaction 
                  
                     35 Quoted in 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 State Journal, Sept. 10, 1862.
                  
                     36
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, Jan. 7, 1863.
               
                     with the administration. The Democrats
                    succeeded in securing a majority in the legislature. This, to them, was a clear
                    vindication of the party from the stigma which the Republicans attempted to
                    fasten upon it, and to the Republicans, a convincing proof that the Democratic
                    party was so strongly intrenched behind this treasonable secret society that the
                    State was in danger of going over to the enemy.
            The silence which followed the election cannot fail to convince the reader that
                    these attacks on the "Peace Democrats" were in part, at least,
                    for political effect. But this silence did not long continue. As soon as the
                    legislature met in January, 1863, Republican papers opened fire again on the
                    secret societies, which they insisted had a large majority in that body. The Tribune declared that: 
                        The leading spirits among the Democrats (in the legislature) are for
                            revolution in the State, and no member is now afraid to say he is a
                            K.G.C. Your correspondent might call every Democrat in the House a
                            Knight of the Golden Circle and they would only laugh at him.37
                  
                    
                
            On January 10, the same paper added: 
                        The legislature has been in session one week, during which time the
                            Copperheads have not uttered one loyal word, but have belched forth
                            treason day and night.
                    
                
            A sensation was created in this session of the legislature by a speech made by
                    Representative Funk, one of the rich farmers in the State. He became very much
                    annoyed by the filibustering methods of the Democratic majority in its efforts
                    to hamper the governor in his war policy. Mr. Funk arose one day to object to a
                    trifling resolution and took occasion to express his sentiments regarding the
                    Democratic opposition. "Mr. Speaker, you must excuse me," he
                    said, "I could not sit longer in my seat, and calmly listen to these
                    traitors. My heart cries out for the lives of our brave volunteers in the field
                    whom these traitors at home are destroying by thousands." He then
                    proceeded to portray the results of their opposition, closing with a bitter
                    denunciation of these "secessionists at heart, their aiders and
                    abettors who seek to embarrass the government and stop the war."38 This speech, was published throughout the north in
                    pamphlet form and 
                  
                     37
                            The Liberator, March 6, 1863.
                  
                     38 Statement of Joshua Pike, Jerseyville, Ill.,
                            Dec. 1, 1902.
               
                     widely circulated as an illustration of the
                    spirit of the peace Democrats.
            That there was very serious opposition in this legislature to the war, and,
                    particularly to the Emancipation Proclamation, is evident, but that it was
                    caused by the presence of members of the Knights of the Golden Circle cannot be
                    substantiated. The influence of the order in the legislature, however, cannot be
                    accurately estimated, since no investigation was permitted and no official
                    notice was taken of it during the session. There were, no doubt, members of the
                    order in the legislature who assisted in hampering the State and federal
                    administration, but it is to be noted that at no time during these ugly days did
                    Governor Yates seem to feel that this secret society was a serious menace to the
                    State government. The southern half of 
                        Illinois
                    , like the southern part of Indiana, was settled almost entirely by
                    emigrants from the southern States, arid their sympathies leaned strongly toward
                    the south. As a result those secret societies found here a fertile field in
                    which to develop. The total membership of the order in this State was probably
                    not so large as in Indiana, but the spirit of opposition to the draft and the
                    conduct of the war was quite as radical. Castles were established in most of the
                    counties in the southern part of the State. In 
                        Cass county
                    , the membership numbered possibly 500 with lodges located at
                            
                  Beardstown, Monroe, Virginia, Philadelphia
               , Newmansville, Ashland, and
                    Chandlersville. In 
                        Jersey
                     county, castles were organized at Jerseyville, with 300 to 400
                    members; at Fidelity, with possibly 100 members; at Paradise and Delhi with a
                    smaller membership.39 In different parts of 
                        Hamilton County
                     lodges were found with a membership varying from 75 to 100. Castles
                    were organized as far north as 
                        Peoria
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    , but in that part of the State the war spirit was so predominant
                    that the order never at any time aroused any anxiety in the minds of the people.
                    The indications are that the membership in the State was composed largely of the
                    riff-raff of the Democratic party and, while they did control the local politics
                    of a number of counties and created much uneasiness in the minds of those who
                    are inclined to attribute power to mere 
                  
                     39 Quoted in 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, Oct. 11, 1861.
               
                     secrecy, they were at no time sufficiently
                    powerful to get control of the State. The organization in the spring of 1863 was
                    absorbed by its successor, the "Order of American Knights."
            In 
                        Ohio
                    , we find the State Journal asserting, as early as
                    October, 1861, that agents of the Knights of the Golden Circle were working
                    secretly in the State; that their oaths, grips, pass-words and correspondence
                    were in the hands of the federal authorities; and that the marshal for the
                    northern district of the State had made a raid upon one of their castles in 
                        Marion County
                     and arrested the leader.40 The various official
                    reports concerning the K.G.C.'s in 
                        Ohio
                     assert that the society was as strong in that State as in Indiana
                    and 
                        Illinois
                    . A careful search in that section of the State where the society
                    would naturally have met with the most favorable reception, namely, in the 
                        Virginia
                     military land district, settled largely by emigrants from southern
                    States, has failed to corroborate the official statements. There were local
                    organizations in some sections of the State whose object was resistance to the
                    draft and to the arrests made by home guards and provost posses41 but few of these were castles of the Knights of the Golden Circle.
                    There were riots and violence in some of the counties which rumor attributed to
                    the Knights, but such rumors cannot be verified. The slight evidence obtainable,
                    the arrest of individual Knights, and the rumors concerning their lodges and
                    secret meetings, tend to substantiate the belief that emissaries of the order
                    were sent to different sections of the State, that here and there they found a
                    few followers, but that the number of castles was never large and their
                    membership never included any considerable number even of those opposed to the
                    war. The excitement attending the arrest and trial of Vallandigham in May, 1863,
                    and his nomination for the governorship of the State can, in no sense, be
                    attributed to this secret order. In fact, Vallandigham was not a member of the
                    Knights of the Golden Circle. His connection with the secret opposition to the
                    administration came with the reorganization of the order under the titles of
                    "Order of American Knights" and "Sons of
                        Liberty."42
            
            
               
                  40 Statement of J. W. Eyler, 
                            Georgetown
                        , O., Apr. 16, 1903.
               
                  41 Vallandigham, Life of C. L.
                            Vallandigham, 370.
            
            
            In 
                        Missouri
                    , as in 
                        Kentucky
                    , the condition during the first two years of the war were not
                    favorable to the development of secret political societies opposed to the
                    administration. The opposition found no necessity for secret hostility. It was
                    only when the federal authorities had established some semblance of order in the
                    State that these organizations found any reason for being. Here and there were
                    found embryonic societies, such as the "Paw Paws" in the
                    southern counties of the State, a military band, sometimes declared to be only a
                    branch of the Knights of the Golden Circle;43 and the
                    "Corps de Belgique" in 
                        St. Louis
                    , a secret club organized by the resident Belgian consul, Charles S.
                    Hunt. But these were nothing more than local clubs. The "Corps de
                    Belgique" seems to have had for its special object the unification of
                    southern sympathy in 
                        St. Louis
                     and the surrounding region in aid of General Sterling
                    Price's proposed invasion of the State. All that it accomplished was to
                    furnish the nucleus around which was built up the more pretentious order of
                    American Knights.44
            
            
               
                        Iowa
                    , in a sense, was a border State and was not entirely free from the
                    efforts of these secret emissaries. In the fall of 1862, H. M. Hoxie, 
                        United States
                     marshal for the district of 
                        Iowa
                    , arrested a number of members of the Knights of the Golden Circle.
                    This action was highly approved by the war department with the suggestion that
                    the order was regarded by the department as "a traitorous one"
                    and "the leading members should be arrested."45 In February, 1863, Mr. Hoxie received a letter from a prominent citizen
                    of 
                        Clarke
                     county (one of the lower tiers of counties) stating that a branch
                    of the Knights of the Golden Circle called the "Union Relief
                    Society" was thoroughly organized in every township in that
                    congressional district.46 Governor Samuel J. Kirkwood about
                    the same date received word that the Knights had been holding secret meetings in
                    different places in 
                        Madison County
                     and that they had a supply of arms sufficient to arm at least 300
                    men. Castles were reported in 
                  Decatur,
                            Warren
                and Lucas 
                  
                     42
                            O. R. II, Vol. VII, p. 240.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid, 228 et seq.
                  
                  
                     44
                            O. R. II, Vol IV, p. 567.
                  
                     45
                            O. R. III, Vol. III, p. 69.
                  
                     46
                            Ibid, p. 66.
               
                     counties. Governor Kirkwood wrote to
                    Secretary Stanton in March that the order was "widely spread throughout
                    the State" and that the public mind was in such a feverish and excited
                    condition that a collision could be prevented only by a "convincing
                    proof of the power of the government to preserve peace and order."47 Both the governor and the federal officials in the State
                    asked for arms and the appointment of provost-marshals with a sufficient force
                    to prevent an outbreak in the southern counties. The governor, in March, 1863,
                    issued a proclamation warning those who were seeking to array the people against
                    the government and setting forth the punishment which would be inflicted for
                    such criminal acts.48 But the danger from the society did
                    not extend much beyond the two lower tiers of counties and at no time was 
                        Iowa
                     in danger of internal disorder. Public opinion was too
                    overwhelmingly in favor of the administration to permit the extension of the
                    society to the central and northern portions of the State.
            We have no knowledge of the existence of the society in any of the middle or
                    western States; but east of the Alleghenies we find evidence of attempts to
                    organize castles. As early as October, 1861, the police of 
                        Philadelphia
                     arrested a one-armed man named Charles Murray, on whose person they
                    found papers containing the constitution and by-laws of the "Knights of
                    the Golden Square." A comparison of these documents with those in
                    possession of the state department relating to the Knights of the Golden Circle
                    indicated that they were one and the same society. In his report to Secretary
                    Seward regarding the documents, chief-of-detectives L. C. Baker said: 
                        The document is copied almost verbatim from the constitution and by-laws
                            of the Knights of the Golden Circle. I am satisfied that F—
                            (Murray) is a member of the K.G.C. and that he has copied their
                            constitution and by-laws.
                    
                
            The detention of Murray prevented the extension of the society under his
                        direction.49
            
            In March, 1863, Judge Advocate L. C. Turner, received 
                  
                     47
                            Ibid, p. 82.
                  
                     48 L. C. Baker, 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Secret Service, p. 93.
                  
                     49
                            O. R. III, Vol. III, p. 75; 
                                New York
                            
                            World, Apr. 10, 1863.
               
                     information from 
                        Reading
                    , 
                        Berks
                     county, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , to the effect that castles had been formed in various parts of the
                    county with the object of resisting the conscription and defying the laws of the 
                        United States
                    . Detectives were sent to make investigations which resulted in the
                    arrest of Philip Huber and three others charged with being members of the
                    Knights of the Golden Circle. In his deposition Detective W. Y. Lyon reported
                    that a number of lodges existed in 
                        Berks county
                     and that they were rapidly increasing; that the avowed object was
                    resistance to the draft and to the laws of the 
                        United States
                    .50 These arrests and the exposure of the order
                    effectually put an end to their efforts in the east.
            Frequent reports reached the secretary of state and secretary of war at 
                        Washington
                     concerning the presence of agents of the Knights in various parts
                    of the union. Even as far north as 
                        Maine
                     they were suspected. 
                        Detroit
                     and vicinity was said to be the center of their disloyal practices
                    for 
                        Michigan
                    . 
                        New York city
                     was declared to be infested with them. These rumors cannot be
                    verified and the fact that the government apparently paid no attention to them
                    would indicate that they were only the suspicions of alarmists.
            In concluding the review of this first of the secret orders, it is well to quote
                    the testimony of Judge Advocate H. L. Burnett, who should have been well
                    acquainted with the true purpose of the society and the history of its
                    operations. In his report to the secretary of war he says: 
                        There is no question but that this secret order was per
                            se, a treasonable conspiracy. Every man of ordinary intelligence
                            who, in view of the existence of a formidable armed rebellion in the
                            land, subscribed to the oath of that order, first having read its
                            ritual, was a traitor. The object of the leaders of the order seemed to
                            be to educate the masses of the Democratic party and weld all the
                            hostile elements of the north into bitter hatred of the administration
                            and its avowed policy, and by inflammatory and incendiary appeals to
                            arouse in their breasts such a degree of hostility toward the government
                            that when the fitting time came they would be ready, at the beck of
                            their leaders, to spring to their bloody work. Their intent seemed to be
                            to make of this order and the embittered Democracy and malcontents
                            throughout the land one grand, united, hostile mass, which should at the
                            proper time be hurled against the government and its army.
                    
                
            
               
                  50
                        O. R. II, Vol. VIII, p. 524.
            
            
            A review of the evidence from which Mr. Burnett draws his conclusions and the
                    full report which he made at this time indicate that he was an advocate of a
                    cause rather than an unprejudiced observer. The objects of the leaders were, no
                    doubt, inimical to the government, but the mass of the membership never
                    indicated a disposition to enter the arena on the side of the Confederacy. Their
                    opposition seems to have been the result of strong partisan prejudice and the
                    belief that the administration was assuming unconstitutional powers. The
                    organization never became numerically strong enough to offer any real menace to
                    the government. In Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     it did hinder materially the operations of the State and federal
                    authorities, but even here the dangers were magnified. The order from first to
                    last was so lacking in leadership, organization, and initiative that it could
                    never have become in any sense a real menace to the government. And when its
                    successor, the Order of American Knights, was established, with its more
                    centralized control, the Knights of the Golden Circle was easily absorbed by it.
            3. ORDER OF AMERICAN KNIGHTS AND SONS OF LIBERTY
            
            The Order of American Knights, the successor to the Knights of the Golden Circle,
                    originated in the mind of a lawyer of 
                        St. Louis
                    , Phineas C. Wright, who afterward became editor of the 
                        New York
                     Evening News, a paper which he planned to make
                    the mouthpiece of the organization. Mr. Wright it seems had, prior to the war,
                    resided in 
                        New Orleans
                    . A year before the outbreak of hostilities he removed to 
                        St. Louis
                     with his family where he entered upon the practice of law.1 The exact date of the establishment of the new
                    association, and the circumstances of its inauguration cannot be ascertained,
                    but the supposition, based upon the evidence given in the testimony of the
                    conspirators, is that Mr. Wright, sometime in the early spring of 1863, worked
                    in conjunction with the members of the Corps de Belgique in 
                        St. Louis
                     and established 
                  
                     1 John A. Marshall, American
                            Bastille, 218, 227.
               
                     in its place the Order of American
                        Knights.2 That he was a man of visionary temperament, a
                    mystical romancer, and revelled in the mysterious and meaningless phrases of
                    secret societies is clearly shown in the ritual of the new order which is
                    decidedly turgid and rhetorical. There were five degrees in the new
                    order—the Fourth or Grand degree being the highest degree of the
                    State; while the Fifth or Supreme degree was the highest in the 
                        United States
                    . Only high officials received the Fourth and Fifth degrees.3 In the First or Vestibule degree the candidate (neophyte)
                    was taken through a sea of meaningless colloquies, after which the K.L. (Knight
                    Lecturer) explained to him some of the principles which the order attempted to
                    inculcate. It was this declaration of principles which furnished the military
                    commission at 
                        Indianapolis
                     with the best evidence that the order was n complete sympathy with
                    the rebellion.4 These principles summarized are as follows:
                        
                  1. All men are endowed by the Creator with certain
                            rights—equal only as far as there is equality in the capacity
                            for the appreciation, enjoyment, and exercise of these
                            rights—some of which are inalienable, while others may, by
                            voluntary act or consent, be qualified, suspended, or relinquished for
                            the purpose of social governmental organization.
                  2. Government arises from the necessities of well-organized society.
                  3. Right government derives its sole authority from the will of the
                            governed, expressly declared.
                  4. The grand purpose of government is the welfare of the governed.
                  5. The government designated "The 
                                United States
                             of America" was created by thirteen free,
                            sovereign, and independent States, for their mutual benefit, to
                            administer the affairs of their common interest and concern; being
                            endowed with the powers, dignity, and supremacy, and, no further, or
                            other, which are distinctly specified and warranted and conferred by the
                            strict letter of the constitution of the 
                                United States
                            .5
                  
               
            
            After listening to these sound "State Rights" principles the
                    candidate was asked, "How wilt thou respond to the declarations 
                  
                     2
                            O. R. II, Vol. VII, pp. 627, et seq.
                                House Executive Document, No. 50, 39th Cong., 2nd Sess., p.
                            519. This document contains the charges, testimony, findings and
                            sentences of the plotters in the Camp Douglas Conspiracy; much of the
                            testimony related to the secret societies.
                  
                     3
                            O. R. II, Vol. VII, p. 642, testimony of Green B.
                            Smith.
                  
                     4 Discussed in Chapter V.
                  
                     5 Benj. Pitman, Trials for Treason at 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                     , 1864, p. 298. This volume contains the official
                            record of the trials before a military commission in the cases of Dodd
                            and others. It will be referred to hereafter by the abbreviations Indiana Treason Trials.
                  
               
                     thou hast just heard?" Placing
                    himself in the "solemn attitude of invitation" he took the
                    following vow: 
                        I,— —, fully comprehending and appreciating the
                            declaration of principles which I have just heard pronounced, hold them
                            for truth, to cherish them in my heart, to inculcate them among my
                            fellows, to illustrate them, as far as in me lies, in my daily walk and
                            conversation, and if needs be defend them with my life.
                    
                
            Then promising never to reveal the secrets of the written or unwritten ceremonies
                    the candidate was advanced to the Second degree—"to the
                    Temple where truth dwells serenely"—where he listened to a
                    discourse on the subject of slavery, arguments which were distinctly southern in
                    sentiment. In brief they were as follows: 
                        The servitude of the African to the white man, Imposed and regulated by
                            wise and human statutes, and by suggestions of refined public sentiment,
                            should promote the advancement of both races and is approved by the
                            sanction of Divine economy.
                        When a people, of whatever race, shall have attained a social organism
                            favorable to material and intellectual progress they should establish
                            and maintain such form of government as a majority shall expressly
                            declare and ordain.
                        All power resides in the people and is delegated always to be exercised
                            for the advancement of the common weal by the express and implied terms
                            of the ordinance or constitution. Hence any, the least, encroachment
                            beyond the express limits is usurpation on the part of the delegate and
                            is dangerous to the liberties of the people, since usurpation unrebuked,
                            may become tyranny, despotism, and oppression.
                        Whenever the chosen rulers, officers or delegates, to whom the people
                            have entrusted the power of the government shall fail or refuse to
                            administer the government in strict accordance with the letter of the
                            established and accepted compact, constitution, or ordinance it is the
                            inherent right and solemn and imperative duty of the people to resist
                            the usurpation of the functionaries and, if need be, expel them by force
                            of arms.
                        Our swords shall be unsheathed whenever the great principles which we aim
                            to inculcate and have sworn to maintain and defend shall be assailed.6
                  
                    
                
            The A.B. (Ancient Brother) then demanded of the candidate a solemn vow in which
                    he promised: 
                        At all times, if needs be, to take up arms in the cause of the
                            oppressed—in my country first of all—against any
                            monarch, prince, potentate, power, 
                        
                           6
                                    O. R. II, Vol. VII, p. 289. Pamphlet
                                    containing Ritual of O.A.K. Rare. Loaned by Wm. Dudley
                                Foulke.
                     
                             or government usurped, which may be
                            found in arms and waging war against a people or peoples who are
                            endeavoring to establish or have inaugurated a government for themselves
                            of their own free choice in accordance with and founded upon the eternal
                            principles of Truth.
                    
                
            His acceptance of these principles of the Temple so far advanced the candidate
                    "from the outer darkness" as to assure the A.B. (Ancient
                    Brother) that there was "one more votary to Eternal Truth, rescued from
                    the galling chains of Error." The neophyte was now prepared for the
                    instructions received in the Inner Temple. This was the "most excellent
                    degree of the Order of American Knights," or Third degree. The
                    instructions here were only an amplification of the principles of the Second
                    degree regarding slavery and state sovereignty. The dogma of state rights was
                    set forth in somewhat more positive terms than in the first two degrees. After
                    listening to the reading of these principles, the candidate, for the third time
                    obligated himself never to reveal any of the secrets of the order and to defend
                    its principles with the sword, if necessary. He further promised that he would:
                        
                        ever cherish the sublime lessons which the sacred emblems of our order
                            suggest, and will so far as in me lies impart those lessons to the
                            people of the earth where the mystic acorn falls from the parent bough,
                            in whose visible firmament Orion, Arcturus, and Pleiades ride in their
                            cold resplendent glories, and where the Southern Cross dazzles the eye
                            of degraded humanity with its corruscations of golden light, fit emblem
                            of Truth, while it invites our sacred order to consecrate her temples in
                            the four corners of the earth where moral darkness reigns and despotism
                            hollds sway," etc.7
                  
                    
                
            With this fitting climax to the ceremonies, the candidate, duly impressed with a
                    full appreciation of the dignity and solemnity of the occasion, became a full
                    fledged Knight ready to ride forth in true Don Quixote style "to do
                    battle in the cause of Truth."
            In addition to the written part of the ceremony there were the passwords, signals
                    of danger, hails, watchwords, and the other mysterious features which
                    characterized the numerous secret societies of the decade before the war, and
                    attracted the attention of the superstitious and ignorant. As an expression of
                    their devotion to the cause of state sovereignty the originators of the order
                    adopted as their first and most 
                  
                     7
                            Indiana Treason Trials, 300; O. R.
                            II, Vol. VII, p. 292.
               
                     important password
                    "Nuohlac"—the word "Calhoun"
                    reversed.
            The political divisions of the States furnished a convenient basis for the local
                    organization of the order which contemplated the establishment of a lodge in
                    every township in every State in the union. The subordinate lodges in the
                    townships sent delegates to the county, or Parent Temple. The Parent Temple sent
                    delegates to the State, or Grand Council, which in turn chose delegates who
                    composed the Supreme Council of the 
                        United States
                    .8 The chief officer in the order was the
                    Supreme Grand Commander who presided over the Supreme Council. Next in rank was
                    the Grand Commander chosen by the State Council as head of the order in the
                    State. In each county was a Grand Seignor chosen by the delegates from the
                    subordinate lodges. In addition to the Grand Commander, the State Council
                    elected a Deputy Grand Commander, a Grand Secretary, and a Grand Missionary. The
                    duty of the last named officer was the organiaztion of subordinate lodges in the
                    townships.
            The military plans of the order were not mentioned in the published documents and
                    were known only to the leaders in the States, to those who had received the
                    Fourth and Fiftk degrees. Members who had taken only the subordinate degrees,
                    when placed on the witness stand before a military commission, testified that
                    they knew nothing of a military department. They were unable to explain
                    satisfactorily in the light of this ignorance that part of the obligation in
                    which they promised 
                        To take up arms against any Monarch, Prince, Potentate, Power or
                            government usurped, which may be found in arms and waging war against a
                            people endeavoring to establish a government for themselves of their own
                            free choice.
                    
                
            They claimed that they understood by that oath that armed force was to be
                    resorted to only in defense of their indivdual rights at the polls; in
                    opposition to the draft; against military arrests; and as a counter influence to
                    the military organization known as the Loyal League.9 All
                    the official 
                  
                     8
                            House Exec. Doc. No. 50, p. 183.
                  
                     9 Most of the witnesses testified to complete
                            Ignorance of the military department of the order.
               
                     reports which discuss the objects of the
                    new order assert that its primary purpose was the formation of a Northwest
                    Confederacy, as a direct ally of the rebels.10 Here again
                    only the leaders knew of these treasonable purposes, which did not take definite
                    shape until after the Order of American Knights was replaced by the new
                    organization, The Sons of Liberty. No doubt, in many communities where southern
                    sentiment was predominant, as in central 
                        Missouri
                     and in the Ohio river counties of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , many of the members were ready and willing to aid any Confederate
                    force which might invade northern territory; but this can be said only of the
                    lodges in these sections of the country and not of the mass of the membership.
            Phineas C. Wright, the first Supreme Grand Commander of the order organized the
                    State Councils in at least three of the States—
                  Missouri, Illinois
               , and Indiana. In 
                        Missouri
                     the chief officers were Charles L. Hunt, Grand Commander; Charles
                    E. Dunn, Deputy Grand Commander; and Green B. Smith, Grand Secretary.11 In the northern part of the State where the federal
                    government was in control and able to quell any open opposition, the lodges grew
                    rapidly in numbers and membership. But south of the Missouri
                    river, particularly in the south-central and southwestern parts of
                    the State, where the southern sentiment was so overwhelming, few, if any, lodges
                    were established. Castles were organized in practically every ward of 
                        St. Louis
                    , with a membership of from 50 to 150 in each. Flourishing temples
                    were found in Ray, Charlton, 
                  Clay,
                            Randolph, Howard, Boone, Calloway, Audrian, Henry, Lincoln
               , Cooper, 
                        Mississippi
                    , Marian, Buchanan, and 
                        Montgomery counties
                    .12 Strong lodges were reported in Renick,
                    Palmyra, Hannibal, and other cities in the northeastern part of the State.13
            
            Arms and ammunition were purchased in 
                        St. Louis
                     and shipped to the members in the outlying counties.14 So bold had the order become by the spring of 1864 that Provost
                    Marshal 
                  
                     10
                            O. R. II, Vol. VII, pp. 244, 802.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid, 933.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid, 296.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid, 745.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid, 642; Statement of Green B. Smith.
               
                     J. P. Sanderson, soon after his assignment
                    to that position in 
                        St. Louis
                    , determined to make a thorough investigation and expose what seemed
                    to him "a secret organization most dangerous to the public peace and
                    welfare of the government." He dispatched agents to the northern part
                    of the State to ferret out the operations of the order there; selected agents
                    who secured admission to the lodges in 
                        St. Louis
                    ; and sent spies into 
                  Illinois, Kentucky
               , Indiana, and 
                        Ohio
                    . These investigations, coupled with the confessions of prisoners
                    who were held by the federal authorities in 
                        St. Louis
                    , resulted in the arrest of the leading officers, twenty-four
                    leading members in 
                        St. Louis
                    , and some seventy-five members from the northern part of the State.
                    From the examination of these witnesses and the sworn statements of the officer
                    of the order General Sanderson, in June, 1864, framed an extensive report which
                    he sent to Major General Rosecrans, commanding the Department of 
                        Missouri
                    . This report presented a dark picture of the conditions of loyalty
                    in 
                        Missouri
                     and the other border States. It asserted that treason lurked in
                    almost every county and that the intention of the traitors was to carry the
                    entire northwest over to the enemy.15 A study of this report
                    in connection with the testimony submitted with it, and in the light of late
                    testimony, is found to be inaccurate and overdrawn. Colonel Sanderson's
                    spies were not all reliable men, especially the one he characterized as the
                    "shrewd, cool, wide-awake Yankee," Edward F. Hoffman, whose
                    long, facetious and rather apologetic letters brand him as an unreliable
                    witness. Some of the agents did, however, give a straightforward statement of
                    facts in their reports, and it is from them chiefly that the meagre data
                    regarding the order in 
                        Missouri
                     has been derived.
            The number of members in the State was estimated all the way from 10,000 to
                        60,000.16 The lowest estimate, 10,000, was sufficient to
                    include the total membership.
            The arrest of Hunt and the exposure of the order through the public press put a
                    stop to its organized activities in the State. Local lodges may have continued
                    to meet, but the order 
                  
                     15
                            Ibid, 228.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid, 628.
               
                     lost all semblance of an organized effort
                    in opposition to the administration. Whatever plans the leaders may have had for
                    the future, they were blighted by the timely exposure made by the government.
                    The effectiveness of the order in 
                        Missouri
                     was destroyed before it entered upon its first campaign.
            Not until the meeting of the Democracy of 
                        Illinois
                     at 
                        Springfield
                    , June 17, 1863, was a Grand Council for that State formed. At the
                    close of this meeting P. C. Wright, Supreme Grand Commander, initiated into the
                    order a number of prominent Democrats of the southern part of the State. S.
                    Corning Judd, of Lewiston, was chosen Grand Commander, and B. B. Piper, Grand
                        Missionary.17
            
            In 
                        Illinois
                     the order partook more of a political character than in 
                        Missouri
                    —i. e., it aimed at opposition to the administration
                    rather than armed resistance to the government. Many of the lodges practiced
                    military drill and carried arms; but the majority understood that they were
                    preparing themselves to protect their rights at the ballot box, and their
                    property against the bands of outlaws which infested the State. Lodges were
                    rapidly organized in the southern counties of the State and usually absorbed the
                    membership of the Knights of the Golden Circle and the Mutual Protection
                    Society. 
                  Quincy, Illinois
               , was a center from
                    which radiated the influences of the order into both 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Missouri
                    . Active and flourishing lodegs were reported in the counties of 
                        Warren
                    , Woodward, Sangamon, 
                  Adams, Morgan, Clinton, Hamilton
               , Coles, Logan, and 
                        Fulton
                    .18 One of Marshal Sanderson's agents
                    reported that the order extended over the entire State and that the leaders
                    claimed a total membership of 80,000 for 
                        Illinois
                     alone. Other estimates of the membership for the State varied from
                    10,000 to 50,000. It is safe to say that at no time did the membership of the
                    order exceed 10,000. The exposure of the Knights in 
                        Missouri
                     and Indiana in the spring and summer of 1863 put an end to the
                    activities of the leaders in 
                        Illinois
                     and led many to withdraw their support from the movement.19
            
            The State Council of the O. A. K. for Indiana was organized at a meeting held in 
                        Terre Haute
                     about August 27, 1863. 
                  
                     17
                            House Exec. Doc. No. 50, p. 542, Testimony of S. C.
                            Judd.
                  
                     18
                            O. R. II, Vol. VII, p. 278.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid, 277.
               
                     Mr. Wright was present and stated the
                    purpose and plans of the order. Temporary officers were elected and a meeting
                    fixed for 
                        Indianapolis
                     September 10, 1863. Delegates from the different parts of the State
                    were present at this meeting in September. Harrison H. Dodd was elected Grand
                    Commander and William H. Harrison Grand Secretary.20 Plans
                    for dividing the State into four districts and arranging for complete military
                    organization were discussed. At a meeting in November a committee was appointed
                    to present plans for the establishment of a newspaper which should advocate the
                    principles of the order in Indiana. In the meantime lodges were being
                    established in the various counties as far north as 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . As in other States, the membership of the Knights of the Golden
                    Circle furnished a nucleus for the new order. This insured its rapid growth. By
                    the middle of February, 1864, according to the report of the Grand Secretary,
                    forty counties were organized and twenty more were in process of
                        organization.21 The total membership reported to that
                    date was 12,000. This report did not include the numerous counties from which
                    unofficial reports had come. It is safe to say that the order soon became more
                    widespread and more fully organized in Indiana than in any other of the border
                    States.
            The first regular annual meeting of the State Council was held February 17, 1864,
                    at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , for the purpose of electing officers and choosing delegates to the
                    meeting of the Supreme Council at 
                        New York
                    , February 22. H. H. Dodd was re-elected Grand Commander and William
                    H. Harrison Grand Secretary. The Grand Commander delivered an address at this
                    meeting which was ordered printed and distributed to the Parent Temples in the
                    various counties.22 In this address he asserted that the
                    purpose of the order was the "service of true Republicanism,"
                    by which he meant the independence of the individual States as secured by the
                    Revolution of 1776. He declared that the great principle then at issue was the
                    centralization of power, against which the Democratic 
                  
                     20
                            Indiana Treason Trials, 80, Testimony of Wm. H.
                            Harrison.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid, 319. This report named the following counties:
                                    
                        Grant, Clay
                     , Black-ford, 
                                Dekalb
                            , 
                                Harrison
                            , Marshal, 
                        Washington, Allen, Brown, Wells, Vigo, Fountain, Sullivan, Parke, Marion, Vermillion
                     , and Vanderburg.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid, 315; Testimony of Wm. H. Harrison.
               
                     party had been opposed since the formation
                    of the union. He opposed the liberation of four million blacks insisting that
                    the question be left to the individual States. He declared 
                        Lincoln
                     and Morton's government to be a usurpation under which the
                    people could not remain passive. He was willing to abide by the decision of the
                    ballot box in the election of officers, but was unwilling to obey them when they
                    exercised undelegated powers.
            At this same meeting a platform was adopted which declared that: 
                        
                     Whereas, President Lincoln is usurping undelegated
                            powers and attempting to establish a centralized despotism, therefore be is resolved that patriotism and manhood alike
                            enjoin upon us resistance to such usurpation; that the constitution of
                            the 
                                United States
                             can be maintained only by adhering to the principles of the
                            voluntary consent of its members; that a convention of the States be
                            called to adjust the differences now existing; that the 
                                Virginia
                             and 
                                Kentucky
                             Resolutions of 1798 and 1799 embody the true exposition of
                            the constitution, and that we will support and maintain the constitution
                            of the 
                                United States
                             as interpreted in the light of those resolutions.23
                  
                    
                
            The committee on newspaper reported in favor of a State organization to be called
                    the "Constitutionalist," and all members were urged to assist
                    in securing at least 10,000 subscribers.24 The military bill
                    which had been drafted some time before was adopted at this meeting, and
                    provided for a division of the State into four
                    districts—Northeastern, Northwestern, Southeastern and
                    Southwestern—and for the appointment of a Major-General for each
                        district.25 Dr. William Bowles, of K. G. C. fame, was
                    chosen head of the Military Department and Commander of the Southeastern
                    District. The adoption of this military bill smacked too much of armed rebellion
                    against the authorities of the State and the 
                        United States
                     to suit a number of prominent politicians who had, up to this time,
                    given their support to the order. According to their testimony they decided to
                    have nothing more to do with the movement. In fact this military act determined
                    the fate of the order, for it took from the movement the support of 
                  
                     23
                            Ibid, 318; Proceedings of the Grand Council
                  
                     24
                            Ibid, 320.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid, 80; Testimony of Wm. H. Harrison.
               
                     any prominent Democrats who might have
                    allied themselves with a purely political society. It also furnished Governor
                    Morton with a clear proof of the treasonable designs of the leaders. Although he
                    did not expose these designs for six months, he knew at the time every move they
                    were making.
            In January, 1864, Mr. Wright accepted a position on the editorial staff of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Evening News. He still retained his position as Supreme Grand
                    Commander of the order which he had established and continued his active
                    interest in its behalf.26 At different times during the
                    winter of 1863 he issued to the lodges addresses teeming with the same verbiage
                    which characterized the ritual and smacking strongly of treasonable opposition
                    to the administration. These addresses, however, were the expression of an
                    individual member only. They never received the sanction of the Supreme Council
                    of the order. Mr. Wright organized the Order of American Knights in 
                        New York
                    , with James A. McMasters, editor of 
                        New York
                    
                    Freeman's Journal, as Grand Commander.27 An effort was made to unite the disaffected elements in the East,
                    particularly in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        New York
                    , but this resulted in complete failure.
            At the last meeting of the Supreme Council, held in 
                        Chicago
                     in September of 1863, it was decided to hold an adjourned meeting
                    in 
                        New York
                     on February 22, 1864. The meeting was duly called and among the
                    leaders present were Messrs. Wright and McMasters of 
                        New York
                    , Dodd of Indiana, Massey of 
                  Ohio, Greene
                of 
                        Illinois
                    , and Barrett of 
                        Missouri
                    . On the way to the meeting28 Mr. Greene and Dr.
                    Barrett stopped at 
                  Windsor,
                            Canada
               , to confer with Mr.
                    Vallandigham, induct him into the order, and obtain permission to use his name
                    for the office of Supreme Commander. Mr. Vallandigham became a member, consented
                    to the use of his name for the office, and suggested some material changes in
                    the ritual of the order. They stated to him that one of the purposes of the 
                        New York
                     meeting was the consideration of just such alterations as he
                    suggested.
            Early in the session the leaders became convinced that 
                  
                     26
                            Ibid, 43; Circular letter written by Mr. Wright.
                  
                     27
                            House Exec. Doc. No. 50, p. 519; Testimony of J. B.
                            McMasters.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid, 502; Testimony of C. L. Vallandigham.
               
                     the ritual should be altered and the order
                    given a new name. Government officials had exposed their secrets; some of the
                    members were opposed to the idea of knighthood as suggested in the name American
                    Knights; and many desired a modificcation of the principles as set forth in the
                        ritual.29 A committee, with Dr. Massey of 
                        Illinois
                     as chairman, was appointed to draft a new constitution and by-laws
                    for the association. The results of his deliberation and a consideration of its
                    report by the council as a body were a slightly modified ritual, new signs and
                    grips, and a new name for the order. Inspired by the memory of the patriots of
                    the Revolutionary days in 
                        New York City
                    , these modern defenders of the cause of human freedom adopted the
                    name of "Order of the Sons of Liberty."
            Mr. Vallandigham was duly elected Supreme Commander of the new order; a committee
                    was appointed to convey this information to him, and induct him into the Supreme
                    Council degree. He accepted the honor conferred upon him and suggested some
                    changes in the ritual, which had not yet been printed. The most important
                    addition which he suggested was the 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     Resolutions, which afterwards became the lesson of the Inner Temple
                    of the Second degree.30
            
            The printed work of the order under a new name was much more voluminous than that
                    of the Order of American Knights; but in essential features it was very similar.
                    The constitution provided for a Supreme Council, a Grand Council for each State,
                    and Parent and Branch Temples in each county. The officers of the order were
                    practically the same as those of the American Knights, namely, a Supreme
                    Commander, State Grand Commanders, and County Grand Seigniors.31 A number of standing committees were provided for. The principles of
                    the order were changed considerably in language and form, but they still
                    maintained the principles of State sovereignty as strongly as before. The ritual
                    consisted of four degrees—the Vestibule, the First degree, the degree
                    of the First Conclave, and the degree of the Second Conclave. In the Vestibule
                        
                  
                     29
                            Ibid, 544; Testimony of S. Corning Judd.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid, 184; Testimony of Amos Green.
                  
                     31
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Journal, Aug. 11, 1864; Contains Gen.
                            Carrington's full report of June 28, 1864, exposing the O.A.K.
                            and S. of L. The constitution and ritual are given in full. This copy
                            has been verified and corrected by General Carrington.
               
                     degree the candidate was required to give
                    assent to a "Declaration of Principles," which was nothing
                    more than a statement of the doctrines held by the Democratic party since the
                    days of 
                        Jefferson
                    —i. e., the doctrine that the federal government is one
                    of delegated powers.
            A majority of the Democrats who joined the order took only this Vestibule degree.
                    They understood the organization to be nothing more than a Democratic club whose
                    purpose was the advancement of the interests of the Democratic party. Nothing in
                    the principles to which they subscribed in this degree could be construed into a
                    treasonable design against the government. However, they obligated themselves to
                    perform without hesitation or delay whatever was rightfully required of them by
                    the duly constituted authorities of the society. Since the duly constituted
                    authorities were at that time conspiring against the government the members
                    obligated themselves to assist the conspiracy. As a matter of fact they were
                    never called upon to do this, so they need be criticised only for taking the
                    obligation and not for giving actual assistance, which in all probability they
                    would never have given if called upon by the leaders.
            In the lesson of the First degree the well-known compact theory was set forth
                    much more fully than in the Vestibule degree, and the candidate was taught that:
                        
                        In accordance with these principles, the federal government can exercise
                            only delegated powers; hence if those who shall have been chosen to
                            administer that government shall assume to exercise power not delegated
                            they shall be regarded and dealt with as usurpers.
                        The claim of "inherent power" or "war
                            power" as also "State necessity," or
                            "military necessity" on the part of the functionaries
                            of a constitutional government for sanction of any arbitrary exercise of
                            power, we utterly reject and repudiate. Whenever the officials to whom
                            the people have entrusted the power of government, shall refuse to
                            administer it in strict accordance with its constitution, and shall
                            assume to exercise power or authority not delegated, it is the inherent
                            right and imperative duty of the people to resist such officials, and if
                            need be expel them by force of arms. Such resistance is not revolution,
                            but is solely the assertion of right.
                    
                
            In the next degree, that of the First Conclave, are found, in condensed form, the 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     Resolutions of 1798 and 1799, Mr. Vallandigham's personal
                    contribution to  the ritual. These
                    resolutions, however, are but a restatement of the lesson of the First degree.
                    In the degree of the Second Conclave the candidate received no lesson; he merely
                    obligated himself to defend the principles of the order, as already set forth in
                    the ritual.
            In addition to these four degrees there were the degrees of the Grand Council and
                    the degree of the Supreme Council, both of which belonged to the unwritten work
                    of the order. The general password was the same as that of the Order of American
                    Knight, namely: Calhoun spelled backword forming three syllables,
                    "Nu-oh-lac." These, together with the initials "S.
                    L." and the expression, "Give me liberty or give me
                    death," pronounced alternately with the warden of the Outer Court,
                    admitted the member to the Vestibule.
            The written and unwritten work of the Sons of Liberty as thus explained applied,
                    in general, to the order in all the States; but each State was left to provide
                    its own internal organization. This was consistent with the doctrine of State
                    Rights as set forth in the ritual. The constitution and laws of the order in
                    Indiana are the only ones preserved for us.32 Here we find
                    an elaborate system worked out in detail, providing for the organization of the
                    Grand Council, county Parent Temples and Castles. The State was left free to
                    provide for its military department. In Indiana the State was divided into four
                    districts, as under the constitution of the Order of American Knights. In 
                        Illinois
                     the State was divided into congressional districts over which were
                    placed brigadier-generals.
            The return of the leaders from the 
                        New York
                     meeting meant a vigorous campaign for the order under the new name.
                    Members of the O. A. K. were not required to take new obligation. They were
                    members of the new order by virtue of their relations to the old. The existing
                    officers retained their positions. The Grand Secretary of Indiana, W. H.
                    Harrison, sent a circular letter to the different county Temples of the State
                    advising them of the changes made in the ritual and requesting them to send an
                    accredited member of the Temple to 
                        Indianapolis
                     for new instructions.33 In 
                        Illinois
                     agents from the Grand Council were sent out to instruct the Temples
                    in 
                  
                     32
                            
                                Evansville
                            
                            Journal, Aug. 11, 1864.
                  
                     33
                            Indiana Treason Trials, 83; Testimony of Wm. H.
                            Harrison.
               
                     regard to the new ritual.34 The leaders in 
                        Missouri
                     opposed the alterations made at 
                        New York
                     and refused to introduce them in their lodges, so the organization
                    in that State remained under the old name. In 
                        Kentucky
                    , where the Grand Missionary of the O. A. K.'s from 
                        Illinois
                    , B. B. Piper, had organized a few castles of the Order of American
                    Knights in the eastern part of the State during the fall and winter of 1863 and
                    1864, the Grand Council was organized as the Sons of Liberty with Joshua A.
                    Bullitt, judge of the 
                        Kentucky
                     court of appeals, as Grand Commander, and Felix G. Stidger, an
                    ex-federal soldier, as Grand Secretary.35 Mr. Stidger was at
                    that time in the secret employ of the federal authorities in 
                        Kentucky
                     and Indiana and joined the order for the purpose of betraying its
                    operations to the government. He was in constant communication with General
                    Carrington and Governor Morton at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and at the same time intimately associated with the leaders of the
                    secret society in that city and 
                        Louisville
                    . His disclosures during the summer of 1864 and his testimony before
                    the military commission in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in August of that year were considered by the judge advocate as the
                    most important evidence leading to the conviction of the leaders. The character
                    of Stidger's evidence will be discussed in a later chapter.
            In 
                        Kentucky
                     the Temples were never numerous and the operations of the order
                    were confined to a small number of radicals in the city of 
                        Louisville
                    , whose chief object seemed to be to secure supplies of Confederate
                    funds from 
                        Canada
                    .
            In 
                        Ohio
                    , the home of the Supreme Commander, the strength of the Sons of
                    Liberty cannot be ascertained. General Carrington says that the State Council
                    was to be established in June, 1864, and that the order was almost as powerful
                    in that State as in Indiana.36 Judge Advocate Holt, in his
                    report, assumes that the number exceeded 80,00037; and the
                    biographer of Mr. Vallandigham says that because of the influence of the Supreme
                    Commander lodges were organized in almost every county in 
                        Ohio
                    .38 Various other estimates 
                  
                     34
                            House Exec. Doc. No. 50, p. 482; Testimony of A. R.
                            Cassill.
                  
                     35
                            Indiana Treason Trials, 110; Testimony of Felix
                            Stidger.
                  
                     36
                            O. R. II, Vol. VII, p. 339; Carrington to Potter, June
                            5, 1864.
                  
                     37
                            O. R. II, Vol. VII, p. 930.
                  
                     38 Vallandigham, Life of C. L.
                                Vallandigham, 374.
               
                     and assertions were made concerning the
                    strength of the order in that State, but a careful search reveals no evidence to
                    substantiate any of these assertions. Dr. Massey, the Grand Commander of the
                    order in that State, no doubt succeeded in organizing a number of castles,
                    particularly in Vallandigham's congressional district, which centered
                    about 
                        Dayton
                    , but the war Democrats were so completely in control of the State
                    party machinery that even Mr. Vallandigham had difficulty in being chosen
                    delegate from his district to the Democratic national convention which met in 
                        Chicago
                     on August 29, 1864. In the absence of more confirmatory proof, and
                    with recent statements made by men who lived there during those stirring times,
                    it is fair to assume that the Sons of Liberty never gained much ground in 
                        Ohio
                    , and at no time numbered more than a few thousand members.
            In fact the operations of the Sons of Liberty were confined almost wholly to the
                    States of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . Here the bitterness of feeling existing between the 
                        Union
                     men and the "Peace-at-any-price" opponents of the
                    administration had become so intense by June of 1864 that federal, State, and
                    local authorities were called upon repeatedly to quell disturbances. Robbing,
                    stealing, and general outlawry became so prevalent in the southern sections of
                    these States that men went armed, slept with rifles under their pillows,
                    barricaded their houses and places of business, and in a number of cases good
                    citizens rose in their might and without judge or jury put to death many of the
                    outlaws.
            
               
                        Union
                     men organized themselves into the Loyal League for the purpose of
                    "maintaining the national and State governments against all enemies at
                    home or abroad." This Loyal League was a secret military organization
                    composed chiefly of members of the Republican party, and intended to protect the
                    community in which they were organized against these local disturbances. The
                    over-zealous partisan spirit of these men, no doubt, often led them to abuse the
                    purpose for which they had banded themselves together, and to inflict upon
                    Democrats, because they were Democrats, abuses and punishments which were
                    undeserved. It mattered not what the nature of the opposition to the government
                    was—it might be resistance  to
                    the draft; a raid by a band of outlaws such as Clingman's band in
                    southern 
                        Illinois
                    ; a drunken riot between "butternuts" and soldiers
                    at home on a furlough—all were attributed to the machinations of this
                    treasonable secret society, indiscriminately designated Knights of the Golden
                    Circle, Order of American Knights, or Sons of Liberty; to which it was assumed
                    all Democrats belonged. The partisan spirit among the Democrats on the other
                    hand was just as radical. The efforts of federal officials to preserve order and
                    suppress riots were resented by the opponents of the administration as
                    usurpation of power. When the officers called to their assistance the armed
                    members of the Loyal League, or Home Guards, the peace Democrats declared it to
                    be tyranny and oppression.
            The number of castles and the membership of the Sons of Liberty in Indiana
                    gradually increased during the summer of 1864. The report of the secretary,
                    given at the last meeting of the Grand Council of the State, held June 14, 1864,
                    at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , estimated the membership at 15,000, an increase of 20 per cent
                    since February, 1864.39 Thirty counties with forty delegates
                    were represented at this meeting. Among the leaders present were William A.
                    Bowles, Lambden P. Milligan, Andrew Humphreys, Stephen
                    Horsey,—McBride, and Harrison H. Dodd. Nothing of vital importance
                    occurred at this meeting except the adoption of a resolution giving the Grand
                    Commander power to appoint a secret "Committee of Thirteen" to
                    act in the interim of the meetings of the Grand Council, and exercise the same
                    power which that body had. The membership of this committee was to be known only
                    to the Grand Commander. The only satisfactory explanation for this extreme
                    secrecy is, that Mr. Dodd and the few leaders realized that the treasonable
                    conspiracy in which they were then engaged (to be related in the next chapter)
                    would not meet with the support of the membership of the order, but that with a
                    committee absolutely secret and select the negotiations with the Confederate
                    agents in 
                        Canada
                     could be carried to a successful conclusion.40
            
            The total membership in 
                        Illinois
                     was estimated by the 
                  
                     39
                            Indiana Treason Trials, 86; Testimony of Wm. H.
                            Harrison.
                  
                     40
                            House Exec. Doc. No. 50, p. 544; Testimony of S. C.
                            Judd.
               
                     Grand Commander of the State to be 20,000.
                    Although the same conditions favorable to the growth of the society existed
                    there, as in Indiana, the leaders were not so active in their missionary
                    efforts, and the indications are that the membership increased very slowly, if
                    at all, in central and southern 
                        Illinois
                    . Further, the exposure of the O. A. K. in 
                        Missouri
                    , from April to July 1864, practically ended the activities of the
                    order in central 
                        Illinois
                    . 
                        Chicago
                     was the center of interest during the summer of 1864. There the
                    meetings of the Grand Council for the State were held, and also the meetings of
                    the Supreme Council. For some time there had existed in 
                        Chicago
                     a secret lodge by the name of the "Sons of
                    Illini," which was claimed to be only another name for the Sons of
                    Liberty, but the constitution of the former club is in no way similar to that of
                    the Sons of Liberty, and the testimony before the military commission at 
                        Cincinnati
                     does not confirm the relationship of the two. There were, however,
                    several meeting places of the Sons of Liberty in 
                        Chicago
                    ; and by the middle of August the membership was declared to be
                    fully 5,000.41
            
            By April, 1864, no well-defined plan had been developed by the leaders for
                    violent opposition to the government. The acts of violence attributed to the
                    lodges up to this date were of a local character and not part of a general plan.
                    The leaders no doubt had such plans in mind, but they did not develop into
                    realities until the Confederate agents appeared in 
                        Canada
                     with a plentiful supply of bank notes to support liberally a
                    movement in the rear of the federal army.42
            
            4. THE NORTHWEST CONFEDERACY OF 1864
            One of the well-defined hopes of the southern leaders, from the first outbreak of
                    hostilities in 1861 to the close of 1864, was the separation of the northwestern
                    States from the union and either the organization of these States into a
                    Northwest Confederacy in alliance with the south or their admission into the
                    southern Confederacy as States. This hope found 
                  
                     41
                            Ibid, 640.
                  
                     42
                     The Southern Bivouac, Vol. II,
                            p. 572.
               
                     expression in resolutions passed by the
                    Confederate congress; in the proclamation of General Braxton Bragg to the people
                    of the northwest in September, 1862; in the speech of President Davis at
                            
                  Montgomery, Alabama
               , in 1863; in the
                    frequent proposals of the southern press to separate the "Northwestern
                    States from the Yankee government"; and the desire of the peace party
                    in the northwest for a separation from 
                        New England
                     if the desolating war then going on was not brought to a speedy
                        close.1
            
            The three staple arguments used in favor of this proposal were: 
                  1. The future of the northwestern States on account of their
                            geographical position, their agricultural interest, and their blood
                            relationship, is inseparably associated with that of the south.2
                  
                  2. The 
                                Mississippi
                             is their common carrier.
                  3. The unequal alliance with the east, particularly with 
                                New England
                            , is unnatural and injurious to the western States.
               
                
            These arguments had no little influence in moulding the opinion of the people of
                    the northwest and producing, in 1863, so much active opposition to the
                    administration that 
                        Lincoln
                     declared to Charles Sumner in January of that year "that
                    he feared the fire in the rear"—meaning the Democracy,
                    especially of the northwest—"more than any military
                        chances."3
            
            The Confederate leaders watched with growing satisfaction this disaffection in
                    the northwest and the open opposition of her citizens to the "severe
                    and unconstitutional" measures adopted by the federal government. They
                    were also fully acquainted with the existence in the border States of the secret
                    political organizations which have been the subjects of discussion in the
                    previous chapters.
            
               
                  1 McPherson, Political History of 
                                United States
                             During the Great Rebellion, 42. 303; O.
                            R. I, Vol. LII, p. 1, p. 363; O. R. IV, Vol. II,
                        pp. 41, 137, 179, 490. The 
                            Richmond
                        
                        Whig and other Southern papers contained frequent
                        editorials favoring the plan of Northwest separation.
               
                  2
                        
                            Chicago
                        
                        Tribune, Feb. 2, 1863; Daily 
                     
                                Illinois
                             Journal, July 20, 1863; 
                            New York
                        
                        Herald, Sept. 3, 1863; Foulke, Life of
                        Morton, Vol. I, p. 398. Cong. Globe, 2nd Sess., 36th
                        Cong., p. 794. Many Democratic mass meetings in Indiana and 
                            Illinois
                         passed resolutions favoring separation from 
                            New England
                        .
               
                  3 Pierce's Sumner, Vol. IV,
                        p. 114, quoted in Rhodes, Vol. IV, p. 223.
            
            
            In the spring of 1864 the Confederate government decided to utilize these hostile
                    forces, if possible, in furthering its plans of secession. Its arms had met with
                    defeat in every quarter; Lee had been driven back at 
                        Gettysburg
                    ; Vicksburg had fallen; the federal government had undisputed
                    possession of the 
                        Mississippi
                     from its source to its mouth; supplies were getting low; the
                    difficulty of obtaining them was becoming more and more apparent; the depleted
                    ranks of the Confederate army could no longer be filled with new recruits; the
                    north refused to exchange its prisoners; 
                        Grant
                     was closing in on 
                        Richmond
                    ; and Sherman was on his march to the sea. The situation was a
                    desperate one. The only gleam of hope was a stroke in the rear—an
                    uprising in the disaffected portions of the north, and the release of some
                    30,000 to 50,000 Confederate soldiers imprisoned in the northern cities. Such a
                    movement as this would be a serious threat to the safety of the northwest, which
                    would force Sherman to retrace his steps, and so probably prolong the war until
                    foreign recognition could be obtained.
            Accordingly, in April, 1864, President Davis appointed Jacob Thompson, C. C.
                    Clay, and J. P. Holcombe as commissioners to proceed at once to 
                        Canada
                     and there carry out the oral instructions which they had received
                    from him. The sum of $900,000 was placed at their disposal, to be
                    used in releasing Confederate prisoners; transporting them to the south;
                    crippling and embarrassing the federal government by destroying military and
                    naval stores; influencing the press; and purchasing arms and ammunition for the
                    disaffected portions of the northwest, especially the secret political
                        organizations.4 On April 30 Judah P. Benjamin wrote to
                    John Slidell, saying: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        We have sent Jacob Thompson and Clement Clay of 
                                        Alabama
                                     to 
                                        Canada
                                     on secret service, in the hope of aiding a
                                    disruption between the eastern and western States in the
                                    approaching election at the north. It is supposed that much good
                                    can be done by the purchase of some of the principal presses,
                                    especially in the northwest.5
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            On March 16, 1864, Captain T. H. Hines, who made himself 
                  
                     4 Mss. Confederate Archives, Treasury Dept.,
                            Benjamin to Thompson, Apr. 28, 1864.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid; Benjamin to Slidell, Apr. 30, 1864.
               
                     famous in the 
                        Morgan
                     raid as a companion of the general in his escape from the 
                        Ohio
                     penitentiary, was detailed by the Confederate government to the
                    special service of assisting escaped prisoners who were willing to re-enter the
                    Confederate service, and of urging the friends of the Confederacy in the
                    northwest to organize and prepare themselves to render such aid as the
                    circumstances would allow.
            Captain Hines proceeded at once to 
                        Canada
                     by way of the 
                        United States
                    , while the commissioners went by sea.6 The
                    latter reached Montreal on May 29. Mr. Thompson, as chief of the commission,
                    sought to secure conferences, not only with the leaders of the disaffected
                    elements in the north, but also with representatives of the administration at 
                        Washington
                    . The conference with Greely at Niagara Falls
                    and the almost humorous failure of his negotiations7 for
                    cessation of hostilities led the commissioners to turn to the leaders of the
                    peace party, with the hope of organizing an active and practical opposition to
                    the war. Naturally the first man to whom they turned was Clement L.
                    Vallandigham, who had been at 
                  Windsor, Canada
               ,
                    since his exile in 1863, and was now Supreme Commander of the secret order, The
                    Sons of Liberty. Captain Hines had a conference with Vallandigham on June 9; and
                    on the 11th of June Mr. Thompson, himself, met Mr. Vallandigham and the two
                    discussed thoroughly the existing hostility in the border States.8
            
            In this conference Mr. Vallandigham stated that the order was well organized,
                    partially armed, and "ready to defend the principles at any
                    cost"; that the membership was 300,000 strong, distributed as follows:
                    85,000 in 
                        Illinois
                    , 50,000 in Indiana, 40,000 in 
                        Ohio
                    , and while the number in 
                        Kentucky
                     was not stated it was estimated as very large. He introduced to Mr.
                    Thompson a prominent officer of the order with whom the Confederate
                    commissioners afterward arranged for the distribution of funds to be used in
                    "arming and mobilizing the county organizations." Thompson was
                    initiated into the order. 
                  
                     6
                            Ibid; Benjamin to Hines, March 16, 1864.
                  
                     7 Much of the detailed narrative of these events
                            is derived from the personal account of the incidents by Judge T. H.
                            Hines, published in the successive issues of the Southern
                                Bivouac, Vol. II, Dec. 1886 to March 1887.
                  
                     8
                            O. R. I, Vol. XLIII, pt. II, p. 931, Thompson to
                            Benjamin, Dec. 3, ‘64.
               
                     He examined the principles for which it
                    stood and decided that only the occasion was lacking for members to arise and
                    assert their rights. He felt that the moment had arrived when this occasion
                    should be furnished. Holcombe was not so sanguine; while the northwest was
                    "fermenting with the passions out of which revolutions have been
                    created," he felt that conditions were not yet favorable for an
                    uprising; but he urged the government not to abandon its efforts to separate
                    this section from the 
                        United States
                    .
            Negotiations between Mr. Thompson and Mr. Vallandigham continued. A conference
                    was held with a representative of the Sons of Liberty from 
                        Chicago
                    , who asserted that he had "two regiments organized, armed,
                    and eager for an uprising." Communication was had with the
                    representatives from 
                  Ohio,
                        Indiana, Missouri
               , and 
                        Illinois
                    , and July 20th was fixed upon as the date for a simultaneous
                    uprising of the order in these states. Money was supplied to these leaders for
                    arming the members and meeting the other necessary expenses of the undertaking.
            Mr. Vallandigham informed the commissioners that in the interval he would return
                    to 
                        Ohio
                     and would, no doubt, be arrested, which event would give the
                    occasion for a general uprising and retaliation by the order for the many acts
                    of oppression which its members had suffered.9 He reached 
                        Hamilton
                     on June 15, in time to be present at the Democratic district
                    convention which was called to select a delegate to the national Democratic
                    convention to be held in 
                        Chicago
                     on July 20. Mr. Vallandigham's friends had supported him
                    for the nomination in the face of much opposition, and his appearance at the
                    afternoon session of the convention was sufficient to carry the day for him. The
                    motion to elect him as delegate was carried amid great applause. As soon as the
                    necessary business was transacted the convention adjourned to the courthouse
                    yard to listen to the speech from their leader, who had been in banishment from
                    May, 1863.10
            
            In the course of his remarks, which were confined chiefly to an arraignment of
                    the "unconstitutional and oppressive 
                  
                     9
                            Southern Bivouac, II, p. 505.
                  
                     10
                            O. R. II, Vol. VII, p. 327.
               
                     measures of the Republican
                    administration," Mr. Vallandig-ham took occasion to speak of the
                    Knights of the Golden Circle or "any other secret society, treasonable
                    or disloyal in character," whose purpose was armed resistance to the
                    federal or State authorities. He declared that he did not know that any such had
                    ever existed, but he was positive that none existed at the present
                    time—he admitted that there were lawful political or party
                    associations whose purpose was to strengthen the Democratic party and oppose the
                    influence of the "dangerous, secret, oath-bound combination among the
                    friends of the administration known as the Loyal Union League"; he knew
                    of but one great conspiracy, that was the Democratic party, whose purpose was
                    the overthrow of the present administration in November, not by force of arms,
                    but by the ballot box
            —and he warned the men in power that there was a 
                        Vast multitude bound together to defend, by whatever means, the
                            exigencies of the times demanded, their natural and constitutional
                            rights as freemen.11
                  
                    
                
            Much to his chagrin and the disappointment of his friends the federal authorities
                    ignored the presence of Mr. Vallandig-ham in 
                        Ohio
                    , and the occasion for the uprising in that State did not present
                    itself. Mr. Thompson, however, did not lose faith in the project. In his reports
                    to 
                        Richmond
                     he assured the Confederate officials that 
                        The rank and file in the northwest are weary of the war and eager to
                            accept from any source relief from the existing conditions.
                    
                
            A decisive movement he felt would push thousands into open revolt. This, however,
                    was not the feeling of the leaders of the Sons of Liberty. As the day appointed
                    for the uprising approached they realized that they were not prepared for such a
                    hazardous undertaking. They so informed the Confederate commissioners and called
                    a meeting of the representatives of the order for July 20 at 
                        Chicago
                    . Delegates from at least four States were present: Messrs. Dodd,
                    Bowles, Walker, and Wilson from Indiana; Bullitt and Williams from 
                        Kentucky
                    ; Holloway, Piper, Swen, and Walsh from 
                        Illinois
                    ; and Barrett from 
                        Missouri
                    . Captain Majors represented the Confederate commissioners with
                    power to complete arrangements 
                  
                     11
                            Ibid, p. 330, et seq.
                  
               
                     for the expenditure of a large sum of money
                    in furthering the insurrection. The leaders were convinced that an uprising on
                    the day appointed would end disastrously; so August 16 was fixed upon as a time
                    far enough distant for the final arrangements to be perfected. An additional
                    supply of money was furnished to the leaders, the expenses of all delegates to
                    the conference at 
                        Chicago
                     were paid, and a committee selected to confer with the Confederate
                    agents across the border.12
            
            This conference took place on July 22 at St. Katherine, 
                        Canada
                    . The committee argued that the success of the uprising would depend
                    upon a movement of Confederate troops into 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Missouri
                     in sufficient force to occupy the attention of the northern army
                    while the conspirators were busy in the rear. Such a movement was then under way
                    in both 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Missouri
                    , which removed any reason for delay on this score. The committee
                    also urged that a series of public peace meetings in the northwestern States was
                    necessary to prepare the public mind for the uprising. Mr. Thompson agreed to
                    furnish all the funds needed for such meetings. Arrangements were completed for
                    the uprising, which was to occur on the 16th of August. The general plan was to
                    move upon the prison camps at 
                  Columbus, Indianapolis,
                            Chicago
               , Alton, and 
                        Rock Island
                    ; seize the arsenals at these points; free and arm the Confederate
                    prisoners; get control of the telegraph lines and railroads; move toward the
                    south to the rendezvous at 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        St. Louis
                    , drawing to their forces all the disaffected as they marched across
                    the States; overthrow the State authorities; organize provisional governments;
                    and so threaten the union cause in the northwest that Sherman would be forced to
                    abandon his march to the sea and return to the defense of the States north of
                    the 
                        Ohio
                    . Such a culmination as this would give the south a breathing spell
                    during which she could collect herself, possibly turn the tide of war and
                    ultimately succeed in securing a favorable peace.13
            
            The leaders returned to their States, if not full of confidence as to the outcome
                    of this grand scheme, at least with 
                  
                     12
                            House Exec. Document No. 50, p. 666.
                  
                     13
                            Indiana Treason Trials, p. 113.
               
                     their pockets full of Confederate drafts on
                    Canadian banks. Judge Bullitt, Grand Commander of the order in 
                        Kentucky
                    , reached the 
                        Ohio
                     with his hand-grip sagging under the weight of Confederate gold. He
                    was met at the ferry landing at 
                        Louisville
                     by a 
                        United States
                     officer and placed under arrest, and shortly afterwards was
                    transferred to Ft. Lafayette.14 During the three following
                    days twenty-four other arrests were made in 
                        Louisville
                    . These arrests destroyed all hopes of assistance from the order in 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            Grand Commander Dodd of Indiana and his chief colleagues, Messrs. Walker and
                    Bowles, returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     also with a large sum of money, estimated at $200,000, a
                    part of which had already been spent in the purchase of arms and ammunition in 
                        New York
                    . Dodd arranged for runners to be sent to the various county
                    Temples, the officers of which should inform the lodges in the townships
                    concerning the details of the plan. He called upon the chairman of the State
                    Democratic committee, J. J. Bingham, editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, and requested him to announce a Democratic mass
                    meeting for August 16 at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He explained to Mr. Bingham the purpose of the gathering and the
                    plans for the insurrection. The latter refused to call the meeting and advised
                    Mr. Dodd to drop the whole matter, declaring that the revolutionary scheme was
                    wild and visionary. Realizing the effect of the exposure of such a scheme on the
                    election of 1864, Mr. Bingham and Joseph E. McDonald, one of the Democratic
                    leaders, called a council of prominent Democrats of the State to discuss ways
                    and means of putting an end to the plot and preventing its exposure by the
                    Republicans. Congressman Michael C. Kerr, a member of the Sons of Liberty from 
                        New Albany
                    , declared that the people in 
                  Washington, Floyd
               ,
                    and 
                        Harrison counties
                     had the idea that a revolution was impending, and that the
                    frightened farmers were selling their hay in the fields and their wheat in the
                    stack. The members of the conference were unanimously of the opinion that the
                    whole movement should be stopped, not only because the plans were treasonable
                    but because their exposure would have a disastrous effect on the Democratic vote
                    in the State election on 
                  
                     14
                            Ibid, p. 100; Testimony of J. J. Bingham.
               
                     October 11. Dodd and Walker were called in
                    and compelled to promise that they would go no further with their
                        arrangements.14 The Democratic leaders did not report
                    this conspiracy to the Republican officials. They had no desire to furnish the
                    administration with a campaign weapon which could be used with telling effect.
                    Governor Morton and General Carrington had already published a full expose of the Sons of Liberty in the State, giving the ritual, grips,
                    pass-words, and some of the plans of the order, and attributing to it
                    treasonable designs of the most diabolical character.15
            
            Meanwhile in 
                        Illinois
                     "peace meetings" had been called for 
                        Peoria
                    , 
                        Springfield
                    , and 
                        Chicago
                    . The first one at 
                        Peoria
                     proved a success, in so far as having a large crowd and arousing
                    the masses in favor of peace. The second one at 
                        Springfield
                     was lukewarm and the last one at 
                        Chicago
                     was a failure.
            The plans for the uprising had met with discouragement from every quarter;
                    Vallandigham's return to 
                        Ohio
                     had been ignored by the government; the order in 
                        Kentucky
                     had been demoralized by the arrest of its leaders; the leading
                    Democrats of Indiana refused to lend countenance to the plot; a number of the
                    conspirators had been arrested in 
                        St. Louis
                    ; and the government seemed to be acquainted with the operations of
                    the order in all of the States. All of these difficulties convinced the leaders
                    of the Sons of Liberty that the time was not yet ripe for the insurrection.
            Another conference between the Confederate commissioners and representatives of
                    the State and county organizations was held at 
                  London, Canada
               , on August 7th. The representatives asked for
                    another postponement until August 29, the date fixed for the Democratic national
                    convention at 
                        Chicago
                    . The reasons for this request were set forth in the following
                    letter addressed to the three commissioners: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        We have thought on the conclusion of this morning and feel
                                    constrained to say a few words more. We told you we could not
                                    approve the plan and the more we think about it the more
                                    thoroughly are we convinced that it will be unsuccessful. Time
                                    is too short to expect assistance, however willing they may be
                                    to assist. It will require some two days to travel back to
                                    places of residence and make arrangements about cashing drafts
                                    and procuring messengers of the right sort to go into the 
                              
                                 15 June 28, 1864. Printed in full
                                            in the 
                                                Evansville
                                            
                                            Journal Aug. 11, 1864.
                           
                                     different counties and give
                                    notice. This will require until Thursday to get the ear of our
                                    chiefs, which will give only one day to select and notify men
                                    that they are in for a perilous and uncertain campaign under men
                                    whom they know little about. … A movement unsupported
                                    by vigorous co-operation at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     and 
                                        Springfield
                                     had better not be undertaken. We are willing to do
                                    anything which bids fair to result in good; but shrink from the
                                    responsibility of a movement made in the way now proposed, and
                                    have concluded frankly to communicate this to you. You underrate
                                    the condition of things in the northwest. By patience and
                                    perseverence in the work of agitation we are sure of a general
                                    uprising which will result in glorious success. We must look to
                                    bigger results than the mere liberation of prisoners. We should
                                    look to the grand end of adding an empire of northwestern
                                        States.16
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            After due consideration August 29 was accepted by the commissioners as the final
                    date. They insisted, however, upon no more delays. This date was considered
                    particularly favorable for the inauguration of the revolutionary movement in 
                        Chicago
                    —a time when the city would be crowded with visitors
                    attending the Democratic national convention. The plan provided for
                    transportation to that city a large number of the members of the order fully
                    armed and equipped, ready for instant action. These were to be led by a band of
                    Confederate officers and soldiers, who should go to 
                        Chicago
                     from 
                        Canada
                     by way of 
                        Detroit
                    .
            In the meantime the federal and State authorities were busily engaged in
                    ferreting out the details of the conspiracy; Provost Marshal Sanderson was still
                    investigating the operations of the C. A. K. in 
                        Missouri
                     and 
                        Illinois
                    ; General Burbridge and Judge Advocate Holt were watching closely
                    the movements of the Sons of Liberty about 
                        Louisville
                    ;17 Colonel Sweet had secret agents in the
                    lodges in 
                        Chicago
                    ; and Governor Morton, assisted by General Carrington, was creating
                    considerable uneasiness in Indiana by his unremitting efforts to expose the
                    leaders.
            Morton had information from 
                        New York
                     that Walker was purchasing arms in that city, presumably for the
                    Sons of Liberty. This information was confirmed about August 20 by a letter from 
                        New York
                    , stating that: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Copperheads of Indiana have ordered and paid for 30,000 revolvers
                                    and 
                              
                                 16
                                            The Southern Bivouac, Vol. II, p. 567.
                              
                                 17
                                            O. R. I, Vol. XXXIX, pt. II, p.
                                        214.
                           
                                     forty-two boxes of
                                    ammunition to be distributed among the antagonists of the
                                    government for the purpose of controlling the presidential
                                    election. Thirty-two boxes of the above have been forwarded to
                                    J. J. Parsons, 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , via Merchants Dispatch and marked Sunday School
                                        books.18
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Governor Morton put this information into the hands of the federal authorities
                    and ordered an investigation of the facts. Sufficient evidence was secured to
                    corroborate the statements in the letter from 
                        New York
                     and to warrant a search of the private office of Mr. Dodd, the
                    Grand Commander of the Sons of Liberty. The provost marshal found there
                    thirty-two boxes containing some 360 to 400 navy revolvers and 135,-000 rounds
                    of ammunition; about two bushels of the rituals of the Sons of Liberty; a roll
                    of the members of the order in 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; and considerable correspondence between Mr. Dodd and prominent
                    Democrats in the west.19
            
            All this information was made public, and the excitement aroused by the exposure
                    led the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal to call a meeting of the people in the
                    governor's circle for the evening of the 22nd, "to consider
                    the present aspect of political affairs in the State."20 This meeting was, of course, a Republican gathering. Resolutions were
                    adopted expressing the alarm of the citizens at the threatening danger from
                    secret orders and condemning the Democratic party for its alliance with these
                    enemies of the government. Governor Morton was present and in a rousing speech
                    added to the excitement of the occasion by declaring that the arms and
                    ammunition seized on the preceding Saturday were but a drop in the bucket
                    compared to the immense quantities that had been imported into the State in a
                    similar manner during the past twelve or eighteen months.21
                    He was confident that the Confederate authorities were furnishing the money for
                    the supplies and were using the Sons of Liberty for the purpose of stirring up
                    civil war in the northwest. Nor did he let the Democratic party escape a severe
                    flaying at his hands.
            
                    Look at the composition of the Democratic State ticket now before the people.
                        Five men upon it are members of the Sons of Liberty—one-half of
                            
                     
                        18 Foulke, Life of Morton,
                                Vol. I, p. 408.
                     
                        19
                                Indiana Treason Trials, 119; Testimony of Col. A.
                                J. Warner.
                     
                        20
                                O. R. I, Vol. XXXIX, pt. II, p. 295; 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Journal, Aug. 22, 1864.
                     
                        21
                                
                                    Chicago
                                
                                Tribune, Aug. 26, 1864.
                  
                         the whole ticket. This secret order is
                        but the nucleus; it does not embrace all the traitors, nor indeed the
                        principal ones. It probably embraces the greater part of the rank and file
                        of those who are willing to go into this movement, but the men who expect to
                        reap the fruit of this revolution, these it does not include.22
               
                
            So severe was his arraignment of the Democratic candidates on the State ticket
                    that they were forced to publish a denial of membership in the order or of any
                    knowledge of any conspiracy against the State or federal government.
            The campaign of 1864 was at its height just at this time and no better ammunition
                    could have been furnished the Republicans than the evidence of a deep-rooted
                    conspiracy against the federal government. Governor Morton, who was a candidate
                    for re-election, made the most of it in his debates with McDonald, the
                    Democratic nominee for governor. He lost no opportunity to attack the secret
                    societies. At 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     he again spoke of the seizure of arms belonging to the Sons of
                    Liberty at 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; and that while McDonald was not a member of the order, he had been
                    nominated by it, and was associating with five of its members on the State
                    ticket. The Republican speakers and press all over the State took advantage of
                    the conspiracy to insure a Republican victory at the polls in October.
            This exposure at 
                        Indianapolis
                     was another serious blow to the plans of the conspirators, but it
                    was not sufficient to put a stop to the preparations for the insurrection August
                    29. Mr. Thompson expressed his confidence in the favorable outcome of the
                    movement. In his communication to Mason and Slidell, August 23, 1864, he said: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        I am addressing every energy that is practicable and reasonable
                                    to assist the northwestern people and everything justifies the
                                    belief that success will ultimately attend the undertaking. In
                                    order to arouse the people political meetings, called
                                    "Peace meetings," have been held and
                                    inflammatory addresses delivered and whenever orators have
                                    expressed themselves for peace with the restoration of the
                                    union, and if that can not be, then peace on any terms, the
                                    cheers and clamor of the masses have known no bounds.23
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            The Confederate commissioners completed their arrangements 
                  
                     22 Foulke, Life of Morton, Vol.
                            I, p. 411.
                  
                     23
                            The Southern Bivouac, Vol. II, p. 509; Thompson to
                            Mason and Slidell, Aug. 23, 1864.
               
                     for the insurrection. Captains John B.
                    Castleman and Thomas H. Hines were appointed by Mr. Thompson to lead the
                    expedition against the 
                        United States
                     prisons in the northwest. They selected a detail of some sixty
                    Confederate soldiers, then in 
                        Canada
                    , including Colonel G. St. Leger Grenfell, at one time 
                        Morgan
                    's chief of staff; Colonel Vincent Marmaduke of 
                        Missouri
                    ; Colonel Benjamin Anderson of Kentucky; and Captain Cantrill,
                    formerly of 
                        Morgan
                    's command. They understood that they were to co-operate
                    with the Sons of Liberty, who should gather ostensibly to stand the Democratic
                    convention; free the prisoners during the confusion of the convention; and then
                    inaugurate the revolution which would spread rapidly over 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    .24
            
            Neither the Sons of Liberty nor the Confederate commissioners took into account
                    the presence of spies in their midst. State and federal officials were in close
                    touch with the movements of the secret order. Colonel Sweet, who was in command
                    of Camp Douglas, received information of the intended attack on the camp,
                    reinforced the garrison and sent 
                        United States
                     Detective Thomas H. Keefe to 
                        Canada
                     to accompany secretly the Confederate soldiers to 
                        Chicago
                    .25
            
            On the 27th and 28th of August the detail of Confederate leaders reached the city
                    in small parties, "assuming the appearance and conduct of men attracted
                    by the political interest of the occasion." Other Confederates came
                    from the south through Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . The 29th of August found the city crowded with Democrats from all
                    the northern States. Among them were the leaders of the Sons of Liberty, who
                    were there to attend not only the national convention, but also a meeting of the
                    Supreme Council of the order. The 
                        Chicago
                    
                    Tribune of August 27 said: 
                        The city is full to overflowing already with the gathering clans of
                            Copperheads, Butternuts, O.A.K.'s, Sons of Liberty, original
                            peace men, gentlemen from 
                                Canada
                            , 
                                Fort Lafayette
                             graduates, and border rebels under military parole; all
                            assembling for the last time under the soiled banner of Democracy to put
                            in nomination the last Democratic presidential candidate. Dick Dodd,
                            Grand Commander of the Sons of Liberty in Indiana, made his appearance
                            yesterday. It is not known how many of his midnight 
                        
                           24
                                    O. R. I, Vol. XLV, pt. I, p. 1077, Report of
                                    Col. Sweet.
                        
                           25 William Bross, Sketch of
                                        Col. J. B. Sweet, 17.
                     
                             assassins accompanied him, but it
                            is generally known that a large number have been regularly detailed for
                            duty at the 
                                Chicago
                             convention.
                    
                
            The headquarters of the Sons of Liberty and the Confederate officers was the 
                        Richmond
                     hotel, at the corner of 
                        Lake
                     street and 
                        Michigan
                     avenues. Over their suite of rooms was the sign, "
                        Missouri
                     Delegation."26
            
            The Sons of Liberty were opposed to the nomination of McClellan for President and
                    favored Governor Seymour of 
                        New York
                    . Their policy was to pack the convention with Seymour delegates,
                    nominate him, and adopt a radical peace platform.27 They had
                    two meetings of the leaders at the 
                        Richmond
                     hotel during the convention. Mr. Vallandigham, Supreme Commander of
                    the order, presided. In a speech he said that he had come to 
                        Chicago
                     expecting a repetition of the Charleston convention—a
                    split in the party—but since his arrival he had changed his opinion.
                    Instead of discord he found a wonderful unanimity of feeling and oneness of
                    ideas. He advised the nomination of McClelland and the united action of all
                    Democrats for his election.28
            
            The "peace Democrats" in the northwest had a strong following
                    in the convention and Vallandigham, their leader, secured the incorporation of a
                    plank in the platform demanding a cessation of hostilities and a convention of
                    States in order to restore "peace on the basis of the federal
                        union."29 But the order of the Sons of Liberty,
                    of which the same leader was the Supreme Commander, was in such a minority in
                    the convention that from the beginning their influence amounted to little. On
                    the second day Mr. Olds, a delegate from 
                        Ohio
                    , suggested that the Sons of Liberty might have a communication to
                    make to the convention, but he did not press the mat ter, and the suggestion was
                    ignored by the chair.30 There was a rumor that Governor
                    Seymour and other leading Democrats had a conference with Mr. Vallandigham and
                    insisted upon an abandonment of the conspiracy, to which the latter 
                  
                     26
                            Everybody's Magazine, Jan., 1900, p.
                            85,—Personal account by Col. Thos. H. Keefe.
                  
                     27 Statement of H. H. Dodd, March 16, 1903.
                  
                     28
                            Indiana Treason Trials, 149; Testimony of James B.
                            Wilson.
                  
                     29 Rhodes, History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , Vol. IV, p. 523.
                  
                     30
                            
                                New York
                            
                            World, Aug. 31, 1864.
               
                     consented with reluctance. This rumor,
                    however, cannot be verified.
            On the night preceding the convention the Confederate leaders called a meeting of
                    the officers of the Sons of Liberty, assured them that their part of the plans
                    were complete, and informed them that the 8,000 Confederate prisoners in Camp
                    Douglas were ready to co-operate in the revolutionary movement. They requested
                    definite information from these officers concerning the strength of the armed
                    force which the representatives of Mr. Vallandigham had agreed to provide. Much
                    to their disgust they soon learned that these officers of the secret order had
                    failed to carry out their part of the agreement and had not properly informed
                    the members in the county Temples. They found that those who had come to 
                        Chicago
                     were totally without organization and initiative. They deemed it
                    necessary to adjourn the conference to the evening of August 29 in order to give
                    these officers time to collect their scattered forces and report the actual
                    number under their control. When the Sons of Liberty, then in the city, learned
                    that the order was to meet with no consideration at the hands of the national
                    convention, and that heavy reinforcements had arrived at Camp Douglas, they
                    became demoralized. It looked too much like a struggle to these valiant knights.
                    As soon as they met with the Confederate leaders on the 29th the latter realized
                    that these men were not the material out of which soldiers are made and that the
                    attack on Camp Douglas would have to be abandoned. As a last resort they
                    proposed that the Sons of Liberty supply Hines and Castleman with a force of 500
                    men to capture the arsenal and free the prisoners at 
                        Rock Island
                    . They argued that so small a force could quietly take possession of
                    a passenger train leaving 
                        Chicago
                     at 9 p. m., and, by cutting the telegraph wires, could reach 
                        Rock Island
                     without their presence being known to the federal authorities. But
                    this again smacked too much of real danger to suit the taste of the wary
                    chieftains who had been so courageous while the Confederate money was being
                    supplied to them so lavishly. Realizing that all prospects of an uprising in the
                    northwest were at an end, at least for the 
                    present, most of the Confederate veterans returned to 
                        Canada
                     or to the southern States through 
                        Illinois
                     and Indiana.
            Viewing the situation from this distance the question arises: What was there in
                    the condition of things to warrant the hope of carrying out such an extensive
                    conspiracy? In the first place, as has been stated, the Confederate
                    commissioners knew of the serious disaffection existing in the northwest,
                    particularly along the Ohio river. They also knew that at
                    this time there were nearly 30,000 Confederate soldiers in prisons located in
                    the States of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    ; and that these prisoners were guarded by only 5,000 or 6,000
                    federal soldiers, most of whom belonged to the Veteran Reserve Corps, and were
                    wholly ineffective for active service.31 The release of such
                    an army of well-seasoned troops in the midst of a disaffected country, they felt
                    confident, would turn the tide of war in their favor. At least in the desperate
                    straits then confronting them the Confederacy could not lose by the attempt.
            But they put too much confidence in the statements of the leaders of the Sons of
                    Liberty. They failed to estimate correctly the character of these men and their
                    followers. They did not realize that the secret order was sadly lacking in
                    organization and capable leadership. It was true beyond a doubt, as Holcombe
                    said, that these States were "fermenting with the passions out of which
                    revolutions are created,"32 but the fermentation
                    had not reached a stage in which it could seriously affect the entire northwest.
                    The attempt to inaugurate a counter revolution was destined from the beginning
                    to be a fiasco. The Confederate commissioners failed to estimate the deep
                    undercurrent of loyalty which permeated the great northwest.
            5. TREASON TRIALS
                    IN INDIANA
            
            The results of the 
                        Chicago
                     convention cleared the air considerably and convinced the peace
                    Democrats and, particularly, 
                  
                     31
                            O. R. II, Vol. VIII, p. 996, contains August report;
                            Prisoners distributed as follows: Camp Douglas, 7,000; 
                                Rock Island
                            , 8,000; Alton, Ill., 1,200; Camp Chase, 
                                Ohio
                            , 5,000; Camp Morton, 5,000; 
                                Johnson
                            
                            
                                Island
                            , 2,500.
                  
                     32
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Herald, July 31, 1872, Holcombe to Benjamin.
               
                     the Sons of Liberty that they could not
                    count on the sympathy of the Democratic party. Their chief support was gone and
                    the order now dwindled into impotency. Only here and there did it show any
                    animation or desire to continue its opposition to the administration and the
                    war. As far as menacing the government of the States of the northwest was
                    concerned the danger, which had never been formidable, was entirely gone, and
                    the authorities might have looked upon the operations of these revolutionary
                    agitators as a huge farce. But these operations supplied campaign material of
                    such excellent quality that it could not be disregarded by the Republican
                    campaign managers. The arrest and trial of the leaders in the closing weeks of
                    the campaign supplied the Republican press and speakers with additional damaging
                    evidence against the Democratic party.
            Mr. Dodd returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     after the convention declaring that the charges of conspiracy made
                    against the Sons of Liberty were without foundation. He urged the people to
                    withhold judgment until the charges were substantiated.1 A
                    few days later he published an address in pamphlet form, written by Walker, and
                    under the imposing signature of the supposed "Committee of
                    Thirteen," in which he asserted that the charges were
                    "absolutely and wickedly false."
            
                    Whatever may be the views and wishes of individuals, the object charged is
                        not comprised in the purpose of the organization. A Northwestern
                        Confederacy, it is true, is not an impossibility, but its establishment
                        would be the effect rather than the object of an uprising of the people: an
                        event Which the continuance of the acts of tyranny of the party in power
                        will certainly produce.2
               
                
            In this address Dodd seriously implicated the Democratic party by declaring that
                        
                        The immediate purposes of the Sons of Liberty and the Democratic party
                            were identical.
                    
                
            Mr. Dodd was arrested some time about the 7th of September, 1864, by Gen. Alvin
                    P. Hovey. Between that date and October 10 a number of arrests were made,
                    including the four major generals of the Sons of Liberty, William A. Bowles,
                        
                  
                     1
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, Sept. 5, 1864.
                  
                     2 Foulke, Life of Morton, Vol.
                            I, p. 414.
               
                     Andrew Humphreys, Lampdin P. Milligan, and
                    Stephen Horsey; the deputy Grand Commander, Horace Heffren, and the Grand
                    Secretary, William H. Harrison. J. J. Bingham, editor of the Sentinel, and a number of lesser lights in the party were also
                    arrested.
            On September 17 General Hovey appointed a military commission to try Dodd for
                    conspiracy. The commission met on September 22 in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , with Judge Advocate Major H. L. Burnett as the prosecuting
                    attorney for the government. The council for the defense objected to the
                    jurisdiction of the court, insisting that the civil courts were open and that
                    the State was not under martial law—a condition necessary to the
                    jurisdiction of a military court.3 Mr. Burnett defended the
                    jurisdiction of the military tribunal by claiming that martial law was declared
                    when the President issued his proclamation of September 25. 1862, subjecting all
                    aiders and abettors of the existing insurrection to martial law. The objections
                    of the defense were overruled, and on the 27th of the month the judge advocate
                    presented five charges against Mr. Dodd, as follows: 
                  1. Conspiracy against the government of the 
                                United States
                            .
                  2. Affording aid and comfort to the rebels against the authority of
                            the 
                                United States
                            .
                  3. Inciting insurrection.
                  4. Disloyal practices.
                  5. Violations of the laws of war.
               
            
            Under these charges were various specifications, which were in substance as
                    follows: 
                        Membership in the secret societies known as the Order of American Knights
                            and Sons of Liberty, whose purpose was the overthrow of the government;
                            holding communication with the enemy; conspiring to seize munitions of
                            war stored in the arsenals and to free the rebel prisoners in the north;
                            and attempting to establish a Northwestern Confederacy.4
                  
                    
                
            To all of these charges the accused pleaded not guilty and the examination of
                    witnesses began at once. Much to the surprise and consternation of Mr. Dodd, the
                    first witness introduced by the government was none other than Felix G. Stidger,
                        
                  
                     3
                            Indiana Treason Trials, 9.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid, 17.
               
                     former Grand Secretary of the order in 
                        Kentucky
                    , with whom Dodd had frequently conferred, and in whom he had placed
                    implicit confidence, never suspecting that he was a government detective. Mr.
                    Stidger related the entire history of his connection with the Sons of Liberty;
                    his efforts to prevent them from suspecting his true character; his frequent
                    conferences with the leaders; and a full explanation of the unwritten work of
                    the order. He testified that he had attended a number of meetings of the Grand
                    Council in Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                    ; that he was present at one of the meetings in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in June, 1864, when all the accused were there; that they all
                    agreed to the murder of 
                        United States
                     Detective Coffin, who had divulged the secrets of the order; that
                    the council voted to complete the military organization of the State as soon as
                    possible; that Mr. Dodd had divulged to him all the details of the plans for the
                    uprising which had been agreed upon in 
                        Chicago
                    ; and that Dr. Bowles had discussed with him the military plans of
                    the order.5
            
            Mr. Stidger was the principal witness for the government and he gave some
                    damaging first-hand testimony, but his evidence concerning the grand conspiracy
                    was merely a repetition of what Mr. Dodd and Judge Bullitt had told him.
                    Furthermore, Mr. Stidger detailed at length a conference which he had with Mr.
                    Heffren, who was afterward tried for treason and conspiracy. Heffren later
                    turned state's evidence and, in a seemingly truthful story of his
                    relations to the order, denied ever having met Stidger. The judge advocate
                    cross-questioned Mr. Heffren on this point closely, but failed to convince the
                    latter that he had met Mr. Stidger. The council for the defense cross-examined
                    Mr. Stidger at great length on this same point, but all that we have of the
                    examination is the following statement by the official stenographer: 
                        A lengthy cross-examination here took place, but no additional facts were
                                elucidated.6
                  
                    
                
            This explanation is not made in order to minimize the value of Mr.
                    Stidger's testimony, but merely to give it its true perspective. It is
                    interesting to note in this connection that 
                  
                     5
                            Ibid, 19–38.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid, 117.
               
                     in the official report of the trials at 
                        Indianapolis
                     the cross-examinations were seldom published, particularly those of
                    government witnesses. This is not proof positive that the authorities desired to
                    give the public only that part of the evidence which portrayed the accused and
                    the organization in the worst possible light, yet the reader of the trial
                    proceedings is led to wonder if that is not the case.
            Mr. Stidger's testimony was followed by that of several others. Joseph
                    Kirkpatrick, of 
                        New York
                    , testified to the sale of the arms which had been found in Mr.
                    Dodd's office and to a contract for 2,500 more revolvers and 135,000
                    rounds of ammunition.7 William Clayton related the history
                    of the order in 
                        Illinois
                    , and told of the military organization and the plans for the
                    uprising in the northwest.8 Wesley Tranter testified that he
                    had been a member of the order, but that when he learned its treasonable
                    purposes he determined to expose it; that he knew of the importation of arms
                    into the State for the purpose of aiding the rebels; that the leaders of the
                    order had arrangements made for murdering Governor Morton; and that they were in
                    constant communication with the rebels.9
            
            At the opening of the court on October 7 the commission was furnished with a
                    great surprise. The judge advocate arose and said that the accused, Mr. Dodd,
                    had escaped from confinement and therefore could not be produced in court.
                    According to the report of Colonel Warner, who was in charge of the prisoner,
                    Dodd had made his escape from his quarters in the third story of the postoffice
                    building by means of a rope which had been conveyed to him by some of his
                    friends. No serious effort was made to recapture him and, as afterwards learned,
                    he leisurely made his way to 
                        Canada
                    .10
            
            The Republicans found in this incident another proof of the treasonable character
                    of the accused, of the order which he represented, and especially of the party
                    to which he belonged. Occurring only four days before the State election, it
                    furnished an excellent climax to an already exciting campaign. 
                  
                     7
                            Ibid 38.
                  
                     8
                            Ibid, 41.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid, 49.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid, 50.
               
                     In the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal Colonel Carrington published an address, in which he
                    declared: 
                        The exposure of the Sons of Liberty has been made. Every word is true.
                            Harrison H. Dodd, Grand Commander of Indiana, has been on trial. Proof
                            was overwhelming. Night before last he escaped from the third story
                            window by a rope. Only one man was in the room with him. That man was
                            Joseph J. Bingham. Innocent men do not do so. The act confesses the
                            guilt. Not one-fourth of the testimony had been offered before Dodd
                            fled. I am no politician. I know from two years' labor what
                            this secret order means. Citizens, every day shows that you are upon the
                            threshold of revolution. You can rebuke this treason. The traitors,
                            intend to bring war to your homes. Meet them at the ballot box while
                            Grant and Sherman meet them in the field.11
                  
                    
                
            The Democratic press, on the other hand, saw in the escape of Dodd an effort of
                    Governor Morton to 
                        Get up a show conspiracy against the government, to be exposed upon the
                            eve of the election, and afford a fund of political claptrap to assist
                            the Republicans in carrying the State.12
                  
                    
                
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel hinted that Dodd was in complicity with Morton, and
                    the 
                        Cincinnati
                    
                    Enquirer wondered how Mr. Dodd contrived to escape to 
                        Canada
                     when the State was so crowded with spies and secret policemen,
                    every one of whom knew him.13
            
            The judge advocate rested the case against Dodd and asked for an adjournment,
                    during which time he wished to prepare the papers for the prosecution of other
                    prisoners. In October the commission met again and the judge advocate submitted
                    the case of Dodd and asked the commission to proceed to its finding and
                    sentence. Arguments were made on both sides. The counsel for the defense
                    maintained that martial law did not then exist in the State of Indiana, and
                    that, therefore, the military tribunal had no jurisdiction. Further, that the
                    evidence offered before the court was principally hearsay and totally
                    insufficient to prove the accused guilty of treason and conspiracy.
            Mr. Burnett, in his reply, argued that when General Hovey convened the commission
                    within the limits of his jurisdiction 
                  
                     11 Indiaanpolis Journal, Oct. 8,
                            1864.
                  
                     12
                            
                                Chicago
                            
                            Times, Oct. 22, 1864.
                  
                     13
                            Indiana Treason Trials, 340. Contains open letter by
                            Mr. Dodd, denying all complicity with the administration party and
                            exonerating the Democratic leaders from any connection with the
                            "Dodd Conspiracy".
               
                     with orders to try the case of Dodd, he, by
                    virtue of his military power as the representative of the commander-in-chief of
                    the army of the 
                        United States
                    , suspended the civil law and put in operation the military or
                    martial law. As to the evidence given under oath, Mr. Burnett asserted that
                        
                        It was of such a character that no argument of the counsel, or finely
                            drawn sophistries can change the perilous and treasonable nature of the
                            circumstances testified to. The proof shows that there exists in this
                            State an organization numbering from fifty to eighty thousand men,
                            military in character, and about two-thirds armed, ready at any time to
                            be called out to obey the orders of their superiors, regardless of the
                            law and authority of the 
                                United States
                            .14
                  
                    
                
            After a brief deliberation the commission found Dodd guilty on all the charges
                    and specifications and sentenced him to be hanged at such time and place as the
                    commanding general of the district should designate. The finding and sentence
                    were later approved by the judge advocate general, but Mr. Dodd's
                    escape to 
                        Canada
                     made it impossible to carry them into effect.15
            
            When the commission met again, October 21, the judge advocate preferred the same
                    charges against William A. Bowles, Andrew Humphreys, Horace Heffren, Lambdin P.
                    Milligan, and Stephen Horsey, as against Dodd.16 In this
                    second trial the accused and the public were furnished several surprises. J. J.
                    Bingham, Dr. James B. Wilson, and William H. Harrison, who were under arrest,
                    were released on condition that they testify as witnesses for the government.
                    Their testimony was by far the most important given before the commission. They
                    related in detail their connection with the secret societies. 
                        Harrison
                     verified the documents and reports which had been seized in Mr.
                    Dodd's office; stated that he knew of the plans for the insurrection
                    and the presence of arms in the city for that purpose; admitted that he was
                    employed as Grand Secretary of the Sons of Liberty at a salary of
                    $800 a year; and that he destroyed the records of the order when the
                    plans were exposed by General Carrington.17
            
            
               
                  14
                        Ibid, 69–71.
               
                  15
                        O. R. II, Vol. VII, p. 1214.
               
                  16
                        Indiana Treason Trials, 74.
               
                  17
                        Ibid, 90 et seq.
               
            
            
            Mr. Bingham related the facts in connection with Dodd's request for the
                    call of a Democratic mass meeting, August 16; the effort of Democratic leaders
                    to put a stop to the proposed uprising; denied any knowledge of the military
                    department of the organization and declared that he had taken no part in the
                    operations of the order after the meeting, February 16, 1864, when he became
                    convinced that it was all a "humbug."18
            
            Dr. Wilson testified at length regarding the meeting of the Supreme Council at 
                        Chicago
                    , July 20. He told of the plans for the uprising as agreed upon
                    there; the presence of Confederate agents in that council; the distribution of
                    Confederate funds to carry out the insurrection; and also of the Supreme Council
                    meeting in 
                        Chicago
                     during the Democratic convention when Mr. Vallandigham was present
                    and spoke in favor of accepting McClellan as the Democratic nominee for the
                        Presidency.19
            
            The greatest surprise of the trial was the release of Horace Heffren, who turned
                    state's evidence and appeared as a witness for the government. He
                    explained the relations of the two departments of the order—the civil
                    and military; stated that Mr. Bowles was commander of the military department in
                    the State; had worked out an elaborate system for organizing companies of
                    infantry, lancers, and artillerymen; admitted that he was Grand Seignior of the
                    Temple in 
                        Washington county
                     which embraced 1,000 to 1,100 members; but claimed that he had
                    severed his active connection with the order after the Grand Council meeting in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in February, 1864; and told of the military plans for the
                    insurrection on August 16, adding that Governor Morton was to be seized and held
                    as hostage for those engaged in the uprising who might be taken prisoners. James
                    S. Athon, secretary of State and a member of the Sons of Liberty was to be made
                    governor. The insurrection failed, he said, because of the prompt action on the
                    part of Messrs. Kerr, McDonald, and other Democratic leaders.20 Fifty-two other witnesses were examined concerning the order in various
                    parts of the State, 
                  
                     18
                            Ibid, 98 et seq.
                  
                  
                     19
                            Ibid, 145 et seq.
                  
                  
                     20
                            Ibid, 123 et seq.
                  
               
                     and the connection which the accused men
                    sustained to its operation. A careful reading of the testimony as reported by
                    the official court stenographer and afterward published in book form by him
                    furnishes ample proof of the statement made by the attorneys for the defense
                    that the evidence of some of the leading witnesses for the State was full of
                    inaccuracies, that it was chiefly hearsay, and that the reputation of the
                    witnesses themselves for truth and veracity could be fairly questioned. Whole
                    pages are devoted to the effort of proving general bad character of these
                    witnesses.
            The examination of witnesses was completed, November 25, and the court adjourned
                    until December 6, to allow the counsel time for the preparation of their final
                        arguments.21
            
            When the commission met on the 6th, Jonathan W. Gordon, counsel for Dr. Bowles
                    and Mr. Humphreys, discussed at great length, the question of the jurisdiction
                    of the court. He quoted extensively from English and American sources in his
                    efforts to define martial law. He denied the right of the President to proclaim
                    such law and declared that it did not exist in Indiana and that, therefore, the
                    military court could not entertain jurisdiction in the case.22
            
            Martin M. Ray continued the argument for the defense confining himself chiefly to
                    the question, whether or not the Sons of Liberty was a conspiracy, per se. He asserted that no interpretation of the written work of the
                    order could justify such a charge. The fact that those men held to the abstract
                    doctrine of state sovereignty as embodied in the 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     Resolutions of 1798 and 1799 was not sufficient to justify their
                    arrest on the charge of conspiracy. He did not deny the military feature of the
                    order nor "that a few desperate men of that branch in and out of the
                    State sought to precipitate the order into a revolution," but he did
                    deny the complicity of his clients, Messrs. Humphreys and Bowles, and the mass
                    of the membership of the Sons of Liberty, in this conspiracy.23
            
            John R. Coffroth then spoke in defense of Lambdin P. Milligan, reviewing the five
                    charges against the accused. He 
                  
                     21 Foulke, Life of Morton, Vol.
                            I, p. 425.
                  
                     22
                            Indiana Treason Trials, 219 et seq.
                  
                  
                     23
                            Indiana Treason Trials, 224 et
                        seq.
                  
               
                     asserted that Mr. Milligan's
                    political views, his opposition to the policies of the administration, and his
                    sympathy for the northwest were shared by men of all parties who felt that her
                    interests had been made to pay tribute to 
                        New England
                    . He attacked savagely the testimony of the government witness,
                    describing Horace Heffren as that "mud-sill of infamy, who turned
                    informer to purchase his own release." Of Tranter, Teney, and Robertson
                    he said, "a case must be desperate, indeed, which relies for support on
                    the testimony of such witnesses," and of Zumro he declared that in
                    every statement he was impeached by respectable witnesses.24
            
            The Judge Advocate, in his extended reply to these arguments of the counsel for
                    the defense, maintained the jurisdiction of the court on the ground of the
                    President's proclamation and the necessity of the crisis. Speaking
                    concerning the latter point he said: 
                        It has been proved beyond question that a conspiracy more extended, more
                            perfect in its organization, and more damnable in its design never was
                            concocted or brought into existence under any government since
                            governments were first instituted. It has been proved that this
                            conspiracy existed in almost every town and county of the State; and not
                            only in this State but in the States of 
                        Missouri, Illinois, Kentucky
                     , and 
                                Ohio
                            ; that it was thoroughly organized and partially armed; that
                            all the objects contemplated by the order were illegal, treasonable, and
                            damnable; that its lurking venom permeated all grades of society.
                            … The danger from this conspiracy was imminent, requiring
                            prompt action, and a strong and vigorous arm; that there was an
                            overpowering necessity for military interference on the part of the
                                government.25
                  
                    
                
            Concerning the general purposes of the order, the judge-advocate said: 
                        The proof most clearly demonstrates that the common design of the order
                            was to reorganize the government on the same principles which were the
                            foundation of the present rebellion, and are the cardinal principles of
                            the Confederate government. … The order was political in its
                            character only so far as it intended and did attempt to educate the
                            masses of the Democratic party up to this belief.26
                  
                    
                
            After a brief consultation the commission found all four of the accused guilty of
                    the charges preferred against them. 
                  
                     24
                            Ibid, 238 et seq.
                  
                  
                     25
                            Ibid, 266.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid, 273.
               
                     Bowles, Milligan, and Horsey were sentenced
                    to be hanged "at such time and place as the commanding officer of the
                    district shall designate."27 Humphreys was to be
                    confined at hard labor during the war, but his sentence was afterward commuted
                    on condition that he would confine himself within the limits of Wright and
                    Stockton townships, 
                        Greene county
                    , Indiana, during the remainder of the rebellion.28 These sentences were approved by President Johnson and the execution of
                    the three prisoners was set for May 19, 1865.29 In the
                    meantime they were confined in the military prison at 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               . Three days before the time fixed for the
                    execution President Johnson commuted the sentence of Horsey to life imprisonment
                    and postponed the date of execution for Bowles and Milligan to June 2.30
            
            Meanwhile the three prisoners presented petitions to the 
                        United States
                     circuit court for the district of Indiana, to be discharged from
                    unlawful imprisonment, claiming that they were not, when arrested, in the
                    military or naval service of the 
                        United States
                    , and, therefore, were not subject to the jurisdiction of the
                    military tribunal.31 They prayed to be
            
                    turned over to the proper civil tribune, to be proceeded against according to
                        the law of the land, or discharged from custody altogether.32
               
                
            The circuit court certified to a difference of opinion between the two judges on
                    the question of the jurisdiction of the military commission and the cases were
                    taken to the supreme court of the 
                        United States
                     for decision.
            The friends of the accused exerted every effort to secure pardons for the
                    prisoners, but the President steadfastly refused their requests. Instructions
                    were sent to General Hovey from the war department to pay no attention to writs
                    from any civil court but to carry out the sentence decreed by the commission,
                    unless otherwise ordered by the authorities at 
                        Washington
                    . Preparation was made for the execution of the orders. The gallows
                    were erected on the parade grounds by Confederate prisoners from Camp Morton.
            
               
                  27
                        O. R. II, Vlo. VIII, 10, 548.
               
                  28
                        Ibid, 11.
               
                  29
                        Ibid, 548.
               
                  30
                        Ibid, 587.
               
                  31
                        Ibid, 897.
               
                  32
                        Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wallace 2.
            
            
            As the date set for the execution aproached, the conservative Republicans
                    realized the gravity of the situation. Gov. ernor Morton conferred with Judge
                    David Davis of the supreme court, who was confident that the military court was
                    illegal because martial law did not exist in Indiana, and the civil courts were
                    open. The governor at once wrote to President Johnson, recommending a
                    commutation of the sentence to life imprisonment. Later, he sent other urgent
                    requests, reiterating the recommendations in his first letter. One of these
                    requests was carried to 
                        Washington
                     by Mrs. Milligan. Finally, Governor Morton despatched John W.
                    Pettit, speaker of the Indiana house of representatives, to the capital to
                    protest against the execution of the prisoners. After two lengthy conferences he
                    succeded in securing commutation of the sentence to life imprisonment. A cipher
                    message was sent to General Hovey by the war department ordering him to
                    transport the prisoners under sufficient guard back to the 
                        Ohio
                     penitentiary where they were to be kept at hard labor for life.33
            
            The case of Milligan came up for argument in the supreme court in March, 1866. J.
                    E. McDonald, J. S. Black, James A. Garfield, and David Dudley Field were counsel
                    for the petitioner. Mr. Speed, attorney general of the 
                        United States
                    , Mr. Stanberry and Benjamin F. Butler, special counsel of the 
                        United States
                    , appeared for the government. The only question at issue before the
                    court was the jurisdiction of the military tribunal. Able and elaborate
                    arguments were presented by both sides. On April 3, 1866, the court decided that
                    the military commission had no jurisdiction. In this opinion the court said:
                        
                        No graver question was ever considered by the court, nor one which more
                            nearly concerns the rights of the whole people; for it is the birthright
                            of every American citizen, when charged with crime, to be tried and
                            punished according to law. … The constitution of the 
                                United States
                             is a law for rulers and people, equally in war and in
                            peace, and covers with the shield of its protection all classes of men,
                            at all times and under all circumstances. No doctrine involving more
                            pernicious consequences was ever invented by the wit of man than that
                            any of its provisions can be suspended during any of the great
                            exigencies of government.
                    
                
            
               
                  33 Foulke, Life of Morton, Vol. I,
                        pp. 427, 428.
            
            
            As to the source from which the military commission derived its power the court
                    declared it could not be found in the constitution, act of Congress, or mandate
                    of the President; that it was not complete under the laws and usages of war;
                    that: 
                        Martial laws cannot arise from a threatened invasion. The necessity must
                            be actual and present; the invasion real, such as effectually closes the
                            ports and deposes the civil administration. None of these conditions
                            existed in Indiana at the time of the arrest and trial. …
                            Therefore one of the plainest constitutional provisions was infringed
                            when Milligan was tried by a court not ordained and established by
                            congress and not composed of judges appointed during good behavior.
                    
                
            Concerning the crimes imputed to Milligan the court said: 
                        If guilty of these crimes imputed to him, and his guilt had been
                            ascertained by an established court and impartial jury, he deserves
                            severe punishment. Open resistance to the measures deemed necssary to
                            subdue a great rebellion, by those who enjoy the protection of
                            government, and have not the excuse even of prejudice of section to
                            plead in their favor, is wicked; but that wickedness becomes an enormous
                            crime when it assumes the form of a secret political organization, armed
                            to oppose the law, and seeks by stealthy means to introduce the enemies
                            of the country into peaceful communities, there to light the torch of
                            civil war, and thus overthrow the power of the 
                                United States
                            .
                    
                
            On April 10, 1866, the war department, directed by the President, ordered the
                    discharge of the prisoners34 who returned to their homes in
                    Indiana after an imprisonment of eighteen months. Indictments were later found
                    against all of the accused, including Dodd. Milligan was arrested and compelled
                    to give bail, but the cases never came to trial.
            In the spring of 1868 Milligan brought suit against the members of the military
                    commission for damages. The case, however, was not tried until 1871. Thomas A.
                    Hendricks was the leading council for Milligan and Benjamin Harrison for the
                    defendants.
            
                    The trial was a long one and a great part of the history of the Sons of
                        Liberty was given in evidence. Judge Drummond charged the jury, that owing
                        to the two years statute of limitations, the defendants would not be liable
                        for any act prior to March 13, 1866, but that they would be liable for any
                        imprisonment subsequent to that time, which was the result of the previous
                        trial and conviction.35
               
                
            
               
                  34
                        O. R. II, Vol. VIII, 10, 548.
               
                  35 Foulke, Life of Morton, Vol. I,
                        p. 431.
            
            
            The jury, evidently not disposed to favor Milligan, realizing that the evidence
                    compelled a decision in his favor, brought in a verdict for damages amounting to
                    five dollars. The Democrats hailed the decision the supreme court and this later
                    decision of the State court as a complete vindication of Milligan from the
                    charges preferred against him. This was not a correct inference, because the
                    only question at issue in these cases was the jurisdiction of the military
                    tribunal.
            Although this last decision closed the real history of the secret orders in
                    Indiana, in press and on platform, echoes of its purposes and operations were
                    heard for a generation. Republican orators in every campaign paraded its
                    treasonable character before the public as an illustration of Democratic
                    disloyalty. As late as 1882 Senator Daniel W. Voorhees was the victim of a
                    scathing attack on this score in the Senate at the hands of Senator John J.
                    Ingalls of 
                        Kansas
                    . And today, in the southern part of the State survivors of those
                    days eagerly dwell on the "dangerous and widespread
                    conspiracy" of the Knights of the Golden Circle and Sons of Liberty.
            6. THE CAMP DOUGLAS CONSPIRACY
            
            The humiliating failure of the attempted insurrection during the Democratic
                    national convention in August, 1864, convinced the Confederate commissioners in 
                        Canada
                     that the Sons of Liberty could not be depended upon to lead a
                    revolutionary movement in the northwest. Mr. Thompson, writing in December to
                    the Confederate secretary of war, said: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        This nomination (McClellan's) followed as it was by
                                    divers disclosures and arrests of persons, prominent members,
                                    totally demoralized the Sons of Liberty. The feeling with the
                                    masses is as strong as ever. They are true, brave, and, I
                                    believe, willing and ready, but they have no leaders. The
                                    vigilance of the administration, its large detective force
                                    … added to the large military force stationed in
                                    those States, make organization and preparation almost
                                    impossible. A large sum of money has been expended in fostering
                                    and furthering these operations and it seems to have been to
                                    little profit.1
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            He recommended that, for the future, they exert their efforts toward inducing
                    those who were conscripted to make 
                  
                     1
                            O. R. I, Vol. XLIII, pt. 2, p. 931.
               
                     their way south to join the southern army.
                    The commissioners then turned their attention to the naval operations on the
                        Great Lakes, the history of which does not belong to
                    these pages.
            Captains Hines, Cantrill, Anderson, and a few of the Confederate officers who
                    still lingered in the vicinity of 
                        Chicago
                    , did not consider the situation so hopeless. They continued to
                    believe that members of the secret organization could be used to advantage in
                    fomenting a revolution in the rear of the union armies. They conferred with some
                    of the more radical peace men and found that they were still disposed to assist
                    in an attack on Camp Douglas for the purpose of releasing prisoners.
            Tuesday, November 8, the night of the Presidential election, was selected as the
                    time for this second attempt. Public interest at that time, they thought, would
                    be centered on the result of the election and the presence of a large body of
                    men from southern 
                        Illinois
                    , members of the Sons of Liberty and southern sympathizers, would
                    not create any suspicion in a city the size of 
                        Chicago
                    .2 Furthermore, the garrison at Camp Douglas had
                    been reduced to 800 men, chiefly of the veteran reserve corps, Colonel E. J.
                    Sweet, commanding. At this time the prisoners numbered between 8,000 and 9,000
                    Confederates, many of whom were reckless bushwhackers from 
                        Morgan
                    's band of raiders.3 Captain Hines was
                    confident, that if these men could be set at liberty, they would create
                    consternation in the northwest. He supplied additional funds for the
                    undertaking. Agents were sent into southern 
                        Illinois
                     to arrange for the transportation to 
                        Chicago
                     of 1,500 Sons of Liberty and southern sympathizers.4
            
            The small 
                        Chicago
                     contingent, in the meantime, was employed in the purchase of arms,
                    and the manufacture of ammunition. The home of Charles Walsh, one of the most
                    active of the Sons of Liberty, who lived within a block of Camp Douglas was made
                    the store house and the factory for these amateur revolutionists. The campaign
                    was to be under the direction of Captains Hines and Fielding, Colonels George
                    St. 
                  
                     2
                            House Exec. Doc. No. 50, p. 58; Testimony of John T.
                            Shanks.
                  
                     3
                            Ibid, p. 188; Testimony of Col. B. J. Sweet.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid, p. 558; Testimony of Thos. J. Sears.
               
                     Leger Grenfel, and Vincent Marmaduke. The
                    plans in general were the same as those adopted for the uprising on August 29,
                    with the exception that the field of operation was to include only Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    . At a given signal on the night of election Camp Douglas was to be
                    attacked from three sides and the Confederate prisoners were to rise in revolt
                    and overpower the guards; arms were to be seized in different parts of the city;
                    telegraph wires were to be cut; banks robbed; and a band sent west to free the
                    prisoners at 
                        Rock Island
                     and seize the arsenal. These things accomplished, the forces were
                    to move through Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , accumulating strength as they preceded south, to a chosen
                    rendezvous on the 
                        Ohio
                     where a junction was to be made with the Confederate forces under
                    Forrest then in 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            There was some reason for their confidence in a successful attack on Camp
                    Douglas, for, according to Colonel Sweet's testimony, there were not
                    more than 250 men on duty at any one time. The camp, including an area of sixty
                    acres, was surrounded by a board fence twelve feet high and could be easily
                    assailed from either side. A band of 500 men on the outside, working in
                    conjunction with 8,000 seasoned Confederate soldiers on the inside, could
                    readily overpower so small a garrison.6 Moreover, the time
                    chosen was a most seasonable one. In the midst of the rejoicing over the result
                    of the election the firing of signal rockets would not be noticed and the
                    presence of the citizens down town would leave the region about the camp
                    practically free of inhabitants.
            But the Confederate leaders were again at fault in their estimation of the
                    character of the men with whom they had to deal. Informers were within their own
                    camp. A majority of the members of the Sons of Liberty were men of small calibre
                    and little honor and they admitted into their confidence, as did the order in
                    Indiana, men who had no scruples against the role of informer. These men offered
                    to report the transactions of the order for a stipulated sum per report. Colonel
                    Sweet employed not only these men, but two Confederates who were willing to
                    betray their comrades.7 To verify 
                  
                     5
                            O. R. I, Vol. XLV, pt. I, p. 1078; Report of Col. B.
                            J. Sweet.
                  
                     6
                            House Exec. Doc. No. 50, p. 190; Testimony of Col. B.
                            J. Sweet.
                  
                     7 John T. Shanks, and Maurice Langhoon.
               
                     the reports of these informers he enlisted
                    the services of Colonel Thomas H. Keefe, of the war department secret service,
                    and Captain E. R. P. Shurly of the veteran reserve corps, acting adjutant
                    general at Camp Douglas.8 Since the fiasco of August 29,
                    Colonel Sweet had not ceased his vigilance. He learned through these agents that
                    the plan for the release of prisoners had not been abandoned, and that some of
                    the Sons of Liberty were still plotting with Confederate officers. At his
                    request General Hooker, commander of the department, came to 
                        Chicago
                     to confer with him. A number of conferences were held with the
                    military, State, and city authorities, all of whom were convinced that a plot
                    for the release of the prisoners was developing.9 Colonel
                    Sweet learned that Brigadier General Walsh, military commander of the Sons of
                    Liberty, had notified the order in the southern part of the State that the
                    administration intended to interfere with the election in 
                        Chicago
                     by military force, if necessary, in order to secure a Republican
                    victory. This was used as an excuse for arming the members in 
                        Chicago
                    , and arranging for the transportation of a large number of the
                    order from the southern part of the State.
            The election, it will be remembered, was to take place on Tuesday, November 8. On
                    the 5th Colonel Sweet was informed of the arrival of a large number of
                    suspicious characters from 
                        Fayette
                     and Christian counties. On Sunday, the 6th, it became evident that
                    additional bands had arrived in the city, many of whom were escaped Confederate
                    prisoners of war and soldiers of the rebel army.
            Colonel Sweet delayed making any arrests, hoping that by Monday, the 7th, all the
                    leaders and many more of the men and arms of the expedition might be captured.
                    But he decided, as he says in his report, that "the great interests
                    involved would scarcely justify taking the inevitable risks of
                    postponement." He, therefore, sent the following dispatch to Brigadier
                    General John Cook, commanding the district of 
                        Illinois
                    , urging him to send reinforcements at once.
            
               
                  8
                        Everybody's Magazine, Jan., 1900, p. 83.
               
                  9
                        O. R. I, Vol. XXXIX, pt. II, p. 530; Col. Sweet to Gen. H.
                        E. Paine, Sept. 27, 1864.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        The city is filling up with suspicious characters, some of whom
                                    are known to be escaped prisoners, and others who were here from 
                                        Canada
                                     during the 
                                        Chicago
                                     convention plotting to release the prisoners of war
                                    at Camp Douglas. … My force is, as you know, too weak
                                    and much overworked, only 800 men all told, to guard between
                                    8,000 and 9,000 prisoners. I am certainly not justified in
                                    waiting to take risks, and mean to arrest these officers, if
                                    possible, before morning. The head gone, we can manage the body.
                                    In order to make these arrests perfect, I must also arrest two
                                    or three prominent citizens who are connected with these
                                    officers, of which the proof is ample.10
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Acting upon this determination, Colonel Sweet made arrangements at once for a
                    raid on the conspirators. Colonel Lewis C. Skinner, commander of the Eighth
                    veteran reserve corps, was sent with a squad of fifty men to search and guard
                    the house of Charles Walsh; another squad, under command of Captain Pettiplace,
                    was sent to surround the 
                        Richmond
                     House; while a third detachment of 100 men, under Captain Strong,
                    marched into the heart of the city to preserve order and arrest suspects.11 After some difficulty Colonel Skinner gained admittance
                    to Walsh's house where he arrested Walsh and three of the Confederate
                    officers—Captains Cantrill, Travers, and Daniel. On the premises were
                    found 210 double barreled shotguns and carbines; 350 revolvers; over 13,000
                    rounds of ammunition; 344 boxes of caps; 2 kegs of powder; bullet molds, pistol
                    wrenches, and other implements for making cartrdiges. The shotguns were all
                    loaded with cartridges, composed of from 9 to 12 largest size buck shot, and
                    capped ready for instant use.12
            
            At the 
                        Richmond
                     House, Colonel St. Leger Grenfel and J. T. Shanks were
                    arrested—the latter for mere form's sake, for he was
                    employed by Colonel Sweet to spy on Grenfel. At the home of Dr. E. W. Edwards,
                    70 
                        Adams
                     street, Colonel Marmaduke and Captain Hines were known to be
                    stopping. The former was secured, but the latter eluded Detective Keefe. Judge
                    Buckner C. Morris, treasurer of the Sons of Liberty, was next arrested at his
                    home, 6, 
                        Washington
                     street. All of these arrests were completed before Monday morning.
                    Reinforcements arrived that day from 
                        Springfield
                     and all day 
                  
                     10
                            O. R. I, Vol. XLV, pt. I, p. 1079.
                  
                     11
                            Everybody's Magazine, Jan., 1900, p. 90.
                  
                     12
                            O. R. Vol. XLV, pt. I, p. 1081.
               
                     squads of federal troops and city police
                    were busy arresting members of the Sons of Liberty, Confederate soldiers, and
                    bushwhackers from southern 
                        Illinois
                    . Before night 106 of these vagabonds, including the notorious
                    Clingman, leader of a band of cutthroats, were put under arrest and imprisoned
                    in Camp Dougles. A few days later a number of the Sons of Liberty were arrested,
                    among them being Patrick Dooley, secretary of the Temple in 
                        Chicago
                    , who had destroyed most of the papers belonging to the order.
            These prisoners were examined at Camp Douglas by Colonel Sweet and his
                    assistants. The testimony convinced him that the Sons of Liberty furnished the
                    inspiration for this attempted insurrection and that some of the leaders were in
                    consultation with the rebel officers.13 These arrests
                    completely crushed the conspiracy and put an end to further efforts on the part
                    of Confederate commissioners to use the Sons of Liberty in their desperate
                    attempt to create a "fire in the rear."
            This exposure, directly preceding the election, furnished the Republicans with a
                    suitable climax to the campaign in 
                        Chicago
                     and the northwest. The Republican press teemed with stories of the
                    enormous conspiracy on the part of the Sons of Liberty and claimed, that since
                    only Democrats belonged to the order, the Democratic party was responsible for
                    these treasonable designs. "Vote for Abraham Lincoln!" was the
                    final warning to all "loyal citizens." This blow, coming as it
                    did on the very eve of election, came too late for the Democrats to prove the
                    unreasonableness of the accusations, and so they were forced to go before the
                    people on election day carrying this additional blot on their loyalty.
            The exposures of the Sons of Liberty in Indiana, the arrests in 
                        Chicago
                    , the glorious victories of the union armies, and the defeat of
                    McClellan at the polls, completed the demoralization of the Sons of Liberty, and
                    the order ceased to exist.
            The history of the society, however, is not complete without a brief account of
                    the trial of the 
                        Chicago
                     consipartors in the spring of 1865. A military tribunal was
                    convened in 
                        Cincinnati
                     on January 9, composed of officers of the army, with Major H. L.
                    Burnett, judge advocate of the department of the 
                  
                     13
                            Ibid, 1080.
               
                    
                    
                        Ohio
                    , as prosecutor. After several preliminary sessions the commission
                    met on January 11, and proceeded to the trial of Charles Walsh, Buckner S.
                    Morris, Vincent Marmaduke, R. T. Semmes, Charles T. Daniels, George St. Leger
                    Grenfel, and Benjamin M. Anderson.
            The accused submitted a plea against the jurisdiction of the military commission,
                    stating that, the offense charged, not being an infraction of any article of
                    war, they were not amenable, therefore, to its jurisdiction. They prayed that
                    the court would take no further cognizance of the matter, but remit it to the
                    courts of the 
                        United States
                     in the northern district of 
                        Illinois
                     for trial. This prayer was denied by the commission.
            The charges and specifications preferred against these men, practically the same
                    in each case, were as follows: 
                  1. Conspiracy, in violation of the laws of war, to release rebel
                            prisoners confined by authority of the 
                                United States
                             at Camp Douglas near 
                        Chicago, Illinois
                     .
                  2. Conspiring to lay waste and destroy the city of
                                    
                        Chicago, Illinois
                     , by
                            capturing the arsenal, cutting the telegraph wires, burning railroad
                            depots, taking forcible possession of banks and public buildings, and
                            leaving the city to be sacked, pillaged, and burned by rebel prisoners
                            of war confined at Camp Douglas.14
                  
               
                
            To these charges each of the accused pleaded not guilty, and the commission
                    preceded to take evidence. Ninety-four witnesses were examined, and, although
                    the testimony in the main related directly to the attempted release of prisoners
                    at Camp Douglas, much of the history of the Sons of Liberty as divulged in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     trials and told in these pages, was repeated at 
                        Cincinnati
                    .
            Among the prominent witnesses was Clement L. Vallandigham, who testified to his
                    relationship with the order, but denied any knowledge of its military and
                    treasonable character.15 His statements, however, are proven
                    to be false by the published correspondence of the Confederate commissioners and
                    the personal account of the attempted insurrection as told by Judge Thomas A.
                    Hines, of the 
                        Kentucky
                     bar, whose report is eminently reliable. Mr. Vallandigham may not
                    have 
                  
                     14
                            House Exec. Doc. No. 50, p. 21.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid, 502–518.
               
                     been implicated in the Camp Douglas
                    conspiracy of November 8, but it is evident that he knew of the plots prior to
                    that date, and assisted materially in perfecting them. He was too able and
                    shrewd a man, however, to expose his hand at that time. Only the published
                    documents of the commissioners and the personal account of Judge Hines have
                    revealed his connection with the movement.
            Another witness was Corning S. Judd, who admitted that he was Grand Commander of
                    the order in 
                        Illinois
                    , but asserted that the purpose of the society was nothing more than
                    a closer organization of the Democratic party, and that the State council
                    disbanded in July, 1864.16 The government examined a number
                    of witnesses who had already testified before the military commission at 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; among them were J. J. Bingham, James B. Wilson, and Felix G.
                    Stidger. In addition to these were the usual list of informers, whose reputation
                    for truth and veracity, already questionable because of the role which they
                    played, was rendered wholly unreliable by their seeming inability to tell the
                    truth.
            In the arguments the lawyer for the defense argued strongly against the
                    jurisdiction of the military commission to try civil cases when the regularly
                    established courts were open.
            The judge advocate, in his reply, asserted that the military commission had its
                    justification in the necessity of the case; that in time of war the executive
                    for the time being becomes, and must be, all powerful; that the chief executive
                    officer, as commander-in-chief, is the great fountain head of power, and
                    transmits that power to his subordinates who exercise it in their departments.
            
                    In this department General Hooker is the direct representative of the
                        commander-in-chief, the President; in this department he is the judge of the
                        necessity which shall call a military court into existence, and of the means
                        to be employed for the suppression of the rebellion; and there is no other
                        power, judicial or legislative, that can judge of that necessity, or
                        determine the means to be employed to meet the existing emergency.17
               
                
            He admitted that some of the witnesses had been seriously 
                  
                     16
                            Ibid, 541.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid, 577.
               
                     contradicted and impeached, but in the
                    essential particulars, he contended that their testimony remained uncontradicted
                    and was corroborated by a number of witnesses. Regarding the Sons of Liberty, he
                    said: 
                        That organization was based upon the theory that a State has a right to
                            secede; that each State was sovereign and supreme in, and of itself, and
                            that, therefore, the government had no right to coerce a State.
                            … If this nation is merely a confederation of petty sovereign
                            States—if this great republic is merely a combination of
                            separate sovereignties, each having an independent right to secede at
                            will, and the general government has no right to coerce a State which
                            secedes from the general compact, and dissolves at will the general
                            union, then, gentlemen, I have entirely misread our history; the Sons of
                            Liberty are justified in their hostility to the government, and the
                            south must go unrebuked for the fractricidal war which has devastated
                            this land for the past four years. But these are the doctrines of the
                            Order of American Knights and the Sons of Liberty; and the only point in
                            which I can perceive that they differ from the rebels in arms against
                            the government is that the latter have carried into effect what they
                            believed, while the others have not. The one, having avowed his faith,
                            shoulders his musket and marches to the battlefield to fight for the
                            faith that is in him, while the other, with the instincts of a coward,
                            says the doctrine in the abstract is right, but hesitates to join his
                            brother to battle for it. The rebel, with greater consistency, says
                            "That which is abstractly right, we will make
                                practicable."18
                  
                    
                
            The commission, after a session lasting from January 9 to April 19, brought in
                    its verdict. Semmes and Walsh were convicted and sentenced to three and five
                    years, respectively, in the 
                        Ohio
                     penitentiary; Grenfel and Daniels were sentenced to be hanged; and
                    Morris and Marmaduke were acquitted. Daniels had escaped from confinement during
                    the trial and 
                        Anderson
                     had committed suicide in prison sometime before the trial was
                        concluded.19 Immediately after the verdict was rendered
                    the members of the commission requested the commanding general to pardon Walsh
                    and remit his sentence.20 After a brief confinement both he
                    and Semmes were liberated. Daniels was not recaptured and Grenfel's
                    sentence was afterward commuted to "imprisonment for life, at hard
                    labor, at the "Dry Tortugas," by order of President
                        Johnson.21 It 
                  
                     18
                            Ibid, 585.
                  
                     19
                            O. R. II, Vol. VIII, p. 684.
                  
                     20
                            House Exec. Doc. No. 50, p. 574.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid, p. 653.
               
                     appears, however, from the records that
                    Grenfel was never taken to that island but to 
                  Fort Jefferson, Florida
               , from which place he escaped on March 7,
                        1868.22 With his escape the history of the Camp Douglas
                    conspiracy was ended.
            7. CONCLUSION
            
            In the preceding chapters the extent and operation of these secret political
                    societies existing at the time of the Civil war have been related. This chapter
                    will be devoted to the discussion of their actual influence on the struggle of
                    1861 to 1865. In order to do this we need to review the character of the
                    membership; the political and military purposes of the majority; the relation of
                    the societies to the southern Confederacy; the character of the witnesses who
                    exposed the orders; and the role which partisan spirit played in these exposures
                    and in the general estimate of the societies.
            First as to the character of the membership. It will be remembered that the
                    Republicans in every campaign attacked the Democratic party for harboring and
                    fostering these treasonable societies, declaring that the leaders of the party,
                    if not actually members, were in active sympathy with the purposes of the orders
                    and expected to reap the results of their machinations. Thaddeus Stevens of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , in a speech made in the House of Representatives in February,
                    1863, declared: 
                        I verily believe the members of the Democratic party throughout the North
                            are holding secret meetings under the name of the Knights of the Golden
                            Circle, and plotting to seize the government and depose the
                        President.
                    
                
            Senator Henry Wilson of Massachusetts, in the same session declared: 
                        There is not on this continent today, in any town, city, county or State,
                            a political organization a man can enter and be a traitor but a
                            Democratic organization.
                    
                
            Governor Morton repeatedly made similar assertions. As late as 1866 in his
                    arraignment of the Democratic party, he 
                  
                     22
                            O. R. II, Vol. VIII, p. 928.
               
                     declared that the leaders, then managing
                    the party, were the men who 
                        Introduced and organized in this State the widespread conspiracy, first
                            known as the Knights of the Golden Circle and afterward as the Sons of
                            Liberty, which had for its purpose the overthrow of the State and
                            National governments.
                    
                
            The Republican press, both east and west, was full of similar assertions,
                    particularly during the political campaigns.
            Such statements had more of vote-winning power than truth in them. While it is
                    true that the membership in these organizations was recruited, almost to a man,
                    from the ranks of the Democratic party, it is wholly unfair to assume that that
                    party as a national organization in any sense fostered these secret societies.
                    It is not even correct to assert that the Democratic party leaders in the States
                    where the orders were most flourishing, were all in sympathy with them. Even in
                    Indiana many of the prominent Democrats strongly opposed the establishment of
                    lodges in the State, and when the treasonable plans of the few leaders of the
                    order became apparent they offered to assist the governor in exposing them. It
                    is true that Mr. Bingham, Mr. Milligan, Congressman Kerr and a number of
                    prominent Democrats were members and took an active part in promoting the
                    societies. It is also true that some of the leaders, Mr. Voorhees and others,
                    who were not members, expressed their sympathy with the movement, and for that
                    reason they deserved the severe condemnation which they received at the time.
                    The prominent Democrats, however, who were directly implicated in the
                    treasonable plots of August, 1864, can be counted on the fingers of one hand.
                    Governor Yates, of 
                        Illinois
                    , in an address delivered in 
                        Chicago
                     in November, 1864, said: 
                        I do not believe that one-half—no, not
                            one-fourth—of the Democratic party which is now ranged under
                            the banner of McClellan and standing on the 
                                Chicago
                             platform is disloyal to the country.
                    
                
            President Lincoln said to Senator McDonald of Indiana: 
                        Nothing can make me believe that 100,000 Indiana Democrats are
                        disloyal.
                    
                
            The facts seem to be these: the membership was composed chiefly of the more
                    ignorant portion of the Democratic  party,
                    and the societies were regarded from the beginning by the leaders, as a thorn in
                    the flesh which they tried to get rid of, but which they were forced to carry
                    until the wound festered and left a scar which did not disappear for a
                    generation.
            In a determination of the purposes of these orders we need to consider not only
                    those stated in the rituals and those indicated by the treasonable conduct of
                    some of the leaders, but also the intentions, as far as they can be determined,
                    of the mass of the membership. Judge Advocate Holt, in his extended report to
                    Secretary of War Stanton in the fall of 1864, summarized the purposes of the
                    order and set forth eleven specific aims which the leaders had in view from the
                    beginning. They are as follows: 
                  1. Aiding soldiers to desert and harboring and protecting deserters.
                  2. Discouraging enlistments and resisting the draft.
                  3. Circulating disloyal and treasonable publications.
                  4. Communicating with and giving intelligence to the enemy.
                  5. Aiding the enemy by recruiting for them or assisting them to
                            recruit within our lines.
                  6. Furnishing the rebels with firms, ammunition, etc.
                  7. Co-operating with the enemy in raids and invasions.
                  8. Destruction of government property.
                  9. Destruction of private property and persecution of loyal men.
                  10. Assassination and murder.
                  11. Establishment of a Northwest Confederacy.
               
                
            These purposes, according to his report, were to be accomplished by means of both
                    the political and military departments of the order; the latter being well-armed
                    and ready for an aggressive movement.
            As to the political purposes of the order, the constitution of the Sons of
                    Liberty gave as its object the maintenance of constitutional freedom and states
                    rights, as recognized and established by the founders of the republic. The
                    Declaration of Principles in the Vestibule degree indicated the same purpose. It
                    was this degree alone which a majority of the members took. In other words, a
                    majority of the members joined what they understood to be a Democratic club
                    whose purpose was the maintenance of the established principles of the
                    Democratic party. This conclusion is derived from the mass of evidence given
                    during the trials and from investigations instituted  at the time and from recent statements made by men
                    well acquainted with the order. Of course, we need to take into consideration
                    the fact that the members of the orders would not admit, even on the witness
                    stand, any treasonable motives on their part; but the above conclusion is
                    corroborated by the government witnesses who gave otherwise damaging testimony
                    against the leaders in the August and November conspiracies. Even Mr. Stidger,
                    whom the government regarded as one of its most reliable witnesses, admitted
                    that when he initiated men into the order he was careful to say nothing about
                    the unwritten military part of the ritual.
            It is true that a large number of the members took part in the military drills at
                    lodge meetings, and in some cases were organized into companies and regiments;
                    yet the evidence indicates that a majority of these men understood that they
                    were drilling for the purpose of protecting themselves, their property, and
                    their rights, against what they believed, was the usurpation and tyranny of the
                    Republican administration. There is no evidence to show that this majority had
                    any intention of assisting the South. That there was a minority of the members
                    who had treasonable intentions against the government cannot be doubted; but the
                    declaration that all were conspirators who joined the organization, heard the
                    ritual read, and took the obligation, is false.
            It was repeatedly asserted that the members were in constant communication with
                    the rebels. Individual members, possibly a considerable number, did aid soldiers
                    to desert, harbored and protected the deserters, discouraged enlistment, openly
                    and violently opposed the draft, hampered in every way possible the State and
                    national administrations; and a smaller number secretly conspired with the
                    Confederate agents in 
                        Canada
                     to establish a Northwest Confederacy; but there is no reliable and
                    sufficient evidence to prove that there was a well organized system of
                    communicaion with the rebels by which they were assisted to recruit within the
                    union lines, furnished with arms or ammunition from the north, or aided in the
                    destruction of government property.
            Frequently the statement was made that the orders knew of intended Confederate
                    raids into northern territory. It is  absurd
                    to suppose that the Confederates gave notice of such movements to these
                    so-called friendly allies, for such information would certainly have defeated
                    the purpose of the expedition. A careful search has been made through the
                    Confederate sources, biographies, diaries, newspapers, and official reports, for
                    some statement indicating the co-operation of the societies with the rebels, but
                    nowhere has such co-operation been discovered, except the conspiracies on the
                    Canadian border which have already been discussed. Further, the replies from a
                    number of men in the south who were closely associated with the Confederate
                    leaders deny any communication, whatever, on the part of the Confederate
                    government with these societies. Judge Hines, from whom we have quoted at length
                    in the preceding chapter, says on this point: 
                        The assertion, which has been gravely and officially made, that there was
                            at any time during the war a political organization, including northern
                            and southern men alike in its ranks, and affording certain means of
                            communication between the Copperheads of the north and the rebels of the
                            south … was utterly without truth or foundation.
                    
                
            An examination of the evidence of the large number of witnesses who at different
                    times gave testimony concerning the operations of the societies, will convince
                    the reader that the officials of the government were hard pressed for
                    straightforward and conclusive proofs to substantiate the extravagant statements
                    which they made concerning the treasonable character of the orders.
            Judge Advocate Holt, in his report, discussed at some length the witnesses and
                    their testimony. He characterized them as shrewd, intelligent men, actuated by
                    laudable motives; members of the order, who upon a full acquaintance with its
                    principles, were appalled by its infamous designs; officers of high rank in the
                    order, who were prompted to make confessions; all of whom he regarded as
                    reliable and trustworthy men. He pointed out in particular, the testimony of the
                    female witness, Mary Ann Pitman, who was the chief authority for Provost Marshal
                    Sanderson's report from 
                        St. Louis
                     concerning the co-operation of the northern branch of the order of
                    American Knights with the southern branch under the command of General Sterling
                    Price. A casual reading of her  sworn
                    statement cannot fail to convince the reader of its credibility. The judge
                    described Felix Stidger as a man of rare fidelity, who at great personal risk
                    furnished the government with information leading to the exposure of the orders
                    in Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                    . The suspicious character of some of Mr. Stidger's
                    evidence has already been discussed. Another witness upon whom the government
                    seemed to rely was J. Winslow Ayer, one of Colonel Sweet's agents in
                    the 
                        Chicago
                     lodges of the Sons of Liberty. Dr. Ayer was a street agent for a
                    patent medicine. He came to Colonel Sweet and agreed to furnish him with
                    information for so much per report. The colonel employed him, but had so little
                    confidence in his reliability that he used government detectives to verify his
                    statements. Ayer's account of the plotting of the Sons of Liberty, when
                    measured by the testimony of other witnesses who were thoroughly acquainted with
                    the facts, seems distorted and unreliable. In his testimony at 
                        Cincinnati
                     he stated that he was a graduate of the Eclectic medical school of
                    that city. A sworn statement of the dean of the faculty indicates that Ayer
                    never attended a course of lectures in that school. Another witness of the same
                    kind was Dr. Henry L. Zumro, the chief government witness against Milligan. He
                    was a member of the Sons of Liberty and as such was employed by the government
                    at a salary of $100 per month to expose the disloyal intentions of
                    his compatriots. His reputation was considerably clouded by the testimony of
                    witnesses in the treason trials at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who testified under oath that his reputation for truth and
                    veracity was bad. The efforts of the prosecution to impeach these statements
                    concerning Zumro proved futile. In the main the important witnesses were men of
                    no standing in the communities in which they lived. They were either men who
                    turned state's evidence in order to save themselves, or men who took
                    the vows and obligations of these secret orders with the deliberate and
                    premeditated intention of violating these oaths and betraying their brothers,
                    many of whom they were directly instrumental in bringing into the organizations.
            Their evidence, however, was sufficiently consistent and corroborative on the
                    main facts in the case, to warrant the 
                    severe sentences meted out to the conspirators in both trials; these men
                    deserved the extreme penalty of the law. But it was not sufficient to justify
                    the extravagant statements made in the official reports implicating all the
                    members of the orders in a grand conspiracy to overthrow the government by
                    fomenting a revolution in the rear of the union armies. No such treasonable
                    motives can be justly attributed to so large a body of northern citizens.
            The influence which led to the extravagant reports and conduct of the government
                    officials toward these organizations was the excessive partisan spirit then
                    existing. Governor Morton and the leaders who joined him in hounding these
                    societies to death regarded the safety of the union as dependent upon the
                    supremacy of the Republican party. To them the government, the administration,
                    and the Republican party were synonymous terms. Any citizen who attacked either
                    was disloyal to his country. There was, too, an element of justice in this
                    radical view. The government was engaged in a struggle for its existence. All
                    the power and force at its command had been called into requisition, and after
                    nearly four years of struggle, the enemy had not been overcome. At such a time
                    opposition to the party in power becomes opposition to the government. As
                    Governor Morton said in his proclamation of June, 1863: 
                        That which is idle talk in time of peace may become aid and comfort to
                            the enemy in time of war.
                    
                
            A rebellion can be aided in other ways than by food, clothing, arms, and
                    medicine. It needs hope and sympathy; and nothing so buoyed up the hopes of the
                    southern States as the signs of opposition and disaffection on the part of those
                    who still maintained their allegiance to the federal government.
            Governor Yates in his message of January, 1863, said: 
                        The secessionists' strongest hope and main reliance is a divided
                            north.
                    
                
            And Secretary of War Stanton declared: 
                        A chief hope of those who set the rebellion on foot was aid and comfort
                            from disloyal sympathizers in the northern States whose efforts were
                            relied upon to divide and distract the people of the north and prevent
                                 them from putting forth their
                            whole strength to preserve the national government.
                    
                
            There were many in the north who opposed the war from humanitarian motives; many
                    who were tired of the horrible waste of life and treasure; and many who honestly
                    protested against the suspension of the rights of the citizen; but to the
                    radical Republican it made little difference what the character of the
                    opposition was. He who did not acquiesce in the judgment of the administration
                    was a "traitor" and a "secessionist." The
                    great mistake of the majority of the Democratic party was the failure to
                    distinguish between partisan opposition in time of peace and in time of war.
                    Their inclination to criticise severely the mistakes of the party in power
                    furnished an excuse for the more radical opposition on the part of the
                    extremists, as represented by the peace Dmocrats in the northwest. It also
                    furnished a cloak behind which disappointed politicians of the type of
                    Vallandigham, Dodd, Bowles, and Walker could organize secret societies, and in
                    the name of these organizations carry on their treasonable conspiracies. In so
                    far as the opposition encouraged such hostility to the administration it merits
                    the severest condemnation.
            The facts in regard to these societies and the acts of treason attributed to them
                    seem to be about as follows: A dozen or more restless and unprincipled leaders
                    in the Democratic party, who saw their political influence rapidly waning,
                    organized these secret societies and drew into their folds a large number of
                    ignorant opponents of the administration, who were dazzled by the elements of
                    secrecy. Encouraged by the mushrom growth of the order and desirous of immediate
                    political power, these leaders, tempted by Confederate money, conceived, in
                    conjunction with the Confederate commissioners, a treasonable plot to overthrow
                    the government in the northwestern States and organize the territory into a
                    separate confederacy, or, failing in this, to throw the influence of these
                    States to the south. It is not credible that a tenth of the nominal membership
                    of the order knew of the plans for the uprisings and it is not at all probable
                    that this tenth would have followed these leaders if the insurrection had
                    actually broken out. From first to last these organizations were singularly  lacking in energy and initiative. They were
                    as impotent for any concerted action as an association of children. Some of the
                    officers commanding departments regarded their movements with alarm, and
                    frequently urged the general government to adopt measures for their suppression.
                    The President, and the authorities at 
                        Washington
                    , on the other hand, while seriously disturbed by the widespread
                    disaffection in the border States, looked upon the machinations of the leaders
                    of these particular societies with "good-humored contempt" and
                    saw in their movements a nearly equal mixture of puerility and malice. A careful
                    investigation of all the available material regarding their purpose, membership,
                    extent, and operations, has led the author of this monograph to the same
                    conclusion.
         
      
   
