
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 6, Issue 2, pages 63-104. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:6+issue:2+year:1910&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            THE UNDERGROUND RAILROAD IN INDIANA.
            
               BY JULIA S. CON KLIN.
            [An article by Dr. O. N. Huff, of 
                        Fountain City
                    , dealing in part with the Underground Railroad in eastern Indiana, appeared in this
                    magazine in September, 1907 (Vol. III, pp. 133–143) under the title, "Unnamed
                    Anti-Slavery Heroes of Old 
                        Newport
                    ."]
            THE mystery connected with the Underground Railroad, the secrecy with which its business was
                    conducted, the results of which were so far-reaching and so novel, have ever lent a charm to the
                    history of this wonderful system which had its beginning in the Southland and ended at the
                    boundaries of the Queen's domain; while the remarkable character of its dusky passengers,
                    the story of their escape from bondage to freedom over this mysterious route, has added a touch of
                    romance which strongly appeals to the imagination.
            It has been impossible to trace to a definite beginning this unparalleled system—this
                    unexplainable, mysterious corporation, organized withotit officers and without authority, in direct
                    violationtion of the laws of both the Northern and the Southern States; but we know that it grew and
                    flourished. in defiance of all restraining authority; that it spread over the North, rapidly gaining
                    in power until it became a strong factor in the liberation of slaves, and only ended when the stroke
                    of a mighty pen proclaimed the freedom of all the bondsmen within the limits of the 
                        United States
                    .
            It has been maintained by those actively engaged in the cause that the Underground Railroad had its
                    origin in the slave States, and that a portion of the system lay south of the Mason and Dixon line.
                    However that may be, it is certain that in the South there were those who sometimes assisted the
                    fugitives to cross  the line, hiding them in wagons, stowing them
                    away in secret places on steamboats, or conducting them through the country at night, to the
                        Ohio river. Once across the river the fugitives found friends who were
                    willing to aid them on their way to 
                        Canada
                    ,—that "City of Refuge" toward which these dusky forms
                    stole their way through southern swamps, over mountains and through valleys, in the dark hours of
                    the night, guided by the far-off glimmer of the north star, that headlight of the wonderful engine
                    of the Underground Railroad.
            The danger to the life and property of those who aided in the escape of slaves was very great, both
                    in the North and the South. In some of the Southern States the penalty for stealing a negro was
                    death; while a heavy fine was inflicted for feeding or harboring a runaway slave. In the North the
                    penalty for aiding in their escape was severe. The law imposed both fine and imprisonment on the
                    offender, and sometimes exacted the payment of the full value of the slave assisted to escape.
            Many of those engaged in the work of the Underground Railroad were men and women of irreproachable
                    moral and Christian character, and, although they were acting in direct violation of the laws of the
                    country, they were actuated by a sincere conviction that they were obeying God's command to
                    "feed the hungry and clothe the naked," for the operations of those in the North
                    seldom led them south of the Ohio river; their policy being to assist the
                    fugitive after he had made his escape and not to persuade him to run away. In this they felt no
                    condemnation of conscience. They were convinced that they were performing a heaven-appointed duty.
                    They recognized a higher law than that made by man, and when the dictates of humanity conflicted
                    with the laws of the country, they ignored the law, and saw the hand of Providence in each success.
                    They were appalled by no danger, although at all times they exercised the greatest precaution, both
                    for their own and the sake of the helpless fugitives.
            In Indiana the sympathy of a large majority of the people was not with the operators of the
                    Underground Railroad. In fact, the sentiment of a large portion of the settlers was strongly against
                    them. Even among those who disapproved of the slave system were many who opposed the methods used by
                    those engaged  in the work of the Underground Railroad, and
                    looked upon them as no better than thieves; for, they maintained, it was worse to steal a negro than
                    to steal a horse, for the reason that a negro was worth more than a horse.
            The subject of the gradual emancipation of the slaves was agitaied by many who held anti-slavery
                    principles, and manumission societies were formed both in the North and the South—the
                    first of the latter being at 
                  New Garden, North Carolina
               , which some liberal-minded
                    slave-owners joined and advocated plans for gradual manumission. Meantime the Underground Railroad
                    continued to spread over a large portion of the States north of the Ohio river,
                    a number of branches passing through Indiana, and 
                        Westfield
                     became an important station. In time, stations were established all along these routes,
                    at distances of from ten to twenty miles apart, and a perfect understanding was maintained between
                    those who were engaged in the work. In the Reminiscences of Levi Coffin the author says:
                    "The roads were always in running order, the connections good, the conductors active and
                    zealous, and there was no lack of passengers. Seldom a week passed without our having received
                    passengers over this mysterious road."
            The business of the road was attended with heavy expense, Which increased with the constantly
                    increasing number of passengers. Ofttimes the fugitives reached the North almost destitute of
                    clothing, and sick from want and exposure; for these food and clothing must be provided, and they
                    must be nursed back to health and the means for transportation secured before they could be
                    forwarded on their way. The journeys were almost always made at night, often over almost impassable
                    roads, along byways that were seldom traveled; every precaution to evade pursuit had to be used, for
                    often hunters were on the track, sometimes ahead of them. Everything was done in the most secret
                    manner, the whereabouts of the fugitives being known to as few persons as possible. Often slaves
                    were concealed for days about the premises of a home unknown to neighbors and visitors, or even to a
                    portion of the family.
            There were a few careful managers among the colored people, but only a few; the majority could not be
                    trusted; they lacked  shrewdness and caution and could sometimes
                    be bribed to act as spies, or to betray the hiding places of the fugitives. It is remarkable how the
                    movements of the slave-hunters became known to the managers of the Underground Railroad, in those
                    days when telegraphic communication was an impossibility; and it is remarkable how the names of
                    those actively engaged in the work and the names and location of anti-slavery strongholds became
                    known, not only to the slave-owners, but to the ignorant slaves in the cotton fields of the South.
                    There seems to have been an Underground Telegraph system as well as an Underground Railroad. Thus it
                    was that 
                        Westfield
                     came to be regarded in quite a different light from the standpoint of the fugitive
                    slave who hoped to find friends here who would help him on to freedom, and from that of the
                    slave-holder, who regarded it as an abolition hotbed where he could receive no justice; for it was
                    said by slave-hunters that when a runaway "nigger" got to 
                        Westfield
                     it was not worth while to look for him.
            It is impossible to ascertain the number of slaves who, by means of the Underground Railroad, made
                    their escape from bondage. Levi Coffin said that in 1844 it was estimated that the number then in 
                        Canada
                     was about forty thousand. That was more than fifteen years before the beginning of the
                    Civil War, and the number constantly increased until that period. Besides this, many of the
                    fugitives found friends and protection this side of the line, and never crossed into 
                        Canada
                    . How many perished in the attempt to gain their freedom none can tell. How many were
                    recaptured and carried back to end their days in slavery will never be known.
            A number of interesting incidents in connection with the Underground Railroad occurred at 
                        Westfield
                    . It is impossible to give the names of all those who were actively engaged in the cause
                    of the fugitive slave, for time has dimmed the memory of those who remain to tell the story. It will
                    be remembered that in the beginning the movement was very unpopular, both within and without the
                    Friends' church, the members of which composed a large portion of the community in and
                    about 
                        Westfield
                    , and the pioneers in the anti-slavery movement were almost ostracised from the society
                    of their neighbors and some of them were "disowned"  by their "meeting." To be an Abolitionist required
                    great strength of character and a strong sense of moral obligation. To be an operator in the
                    Underground Railroad required not only this but physical courage as well. The odium attached to the
                    calling was very undesirable; those engaged in it often being classed with thieves and robbers. Yet,
                    in the face of all scandal and disgrace, a few courageous men and women quietly continued the work,
                    and endured the slights and insults of former friends and neighbors until the community experienced
                    a revolution of sentiment. Then abolitionism became popular in this section of the country. The
                    Society of Friends opened its doors to take back, without acknowledgment, all those who had been
                    disowned on account of their anti-slavery proclivities, and many of those who had most bitterly
                    opposed the Underground Railroad took up the work themselves and continued it until their services
                    were no longer needed.
            Among the pioneers in the movement should be mentioned Asa Beals, one of the founders of the village;
                    Judah Roberts, Louis Roberts, Simon Moon, another founder of 
                        Westfield
                    , and his sons, William and Riley; Curts Hiatt, Nathan Hiatt, Aaron and Elizabeth
                    Lindley, Jonathan Hammer, Joel Denny, Dr. Jacob Pfaff, William Walgerman, William Frost, Border
                    Jackson, Daniel Lighter, Samuel Johns, Milton Stanley and Ephraim Stout. Later came the White
                    brothers, Mordacai, Lilburn and Mikajah; Elijah Talbert, Peter Rich, Levi Pennington, the Baldwin
                    brothers, David and Isaac, and many others. North of 
                        Westfield
                    , in the vicinity of Deming, the active workers in the Underground Railroad were Elihu
                    Picket, Jesse, Joseph and Anna Baker, Martin Anthony, Owen Williams, John White, Daniel Hasket,
                    Uriah Hodson, Joseph Hadley and a number of others. In the operation of the Underground Railroad the
                    women were as active as the men and their work was just as effective. Perhaps they did not
                    personally conduct the fugitives through the forests and swamps, but they opened the doors of their
                    homes and took them in, sick as many of them were, ragged and dirty as they all must have been,
                    coming in direct contact with them, and performing all sorts of disagreeable service. They cooked
                    food for the fugitives, and spun and wove the cloth which they made into  clothing for them. The sick they put into their own dainty beds and
                    nursed them back to health, and if the words of our Savior, "Whatsoever ye do unto the
                    least of these, ye do it unto Me," have any meaning, surely they have entered into their
                    reward.
            Louis and Judah Roberts were born in 
                  Highland county,
                            Ohio
               . When young men they were employed
                    to work for a cousin who lived at some point on the Ohio river. There they
                    became interested in the operations of the Underground in which their cousin was engaged. In 1834
                    they moved to Indiana and settled near 
                        Westfield
                    . Soon afterward some fugitives were shipped from their old neighborhood on the
                        Ohio river to their home in 
                        Hamilton county
                    , and thus a branch of the Underground Railroad was established through 
                        Westfield
                    . In the beginning the nearest station north of 
                        Westfield
                     was New 
                        London
                    , in 
                        Howard county
                    , a distance of fifty or sixty miles in these days of gravel roads and excellent
                    facilities for travel, but much farther in those times when the blazed pathway lay through the dense
                    forest and almost impassable swamps. The use of any sort of vehicle was not to be thought of, the
                    only means of travel being on horseback or on foot.
            Fugitive slaves were shipped to 
                        Westfield
                     from many points. They came from 
                        Lafayette
                    , Darlington and Thorntown; from 
                        Mooresville
                    , and various points. in 
                        Henry county
                    , and from 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Sometimes they came singly; sometimes a number were together. One night two or three
                    parties, numbering in all twenty negroes, arrived at the home of Judah Roberts, near 
                        Westfield
                    . They were all fed and properly cared for and safely forwarded on their journey.
            On the spot now occupied by the residence of Anderson Perry once stood a barn belonging to Asa Beals.
                    It differed from the ordinary barns of that period in that it was larger, was built of frame, and
                    had a cellar beneath it; the latter, however, was not generally known. Into this cavity many a dusky
                    form was secreted in the darkness, food and drink given through the opening above, the trap-door
                    securely fastened, a bit of hay or straw scattered carelessly over it; and here the fugitive
                    remained until the time and opportunity came for smuggling him away.
            A slave named George Hoard escaped captivity with his wife  and
                    children and was traced by his master to 
                        Westfield
                    . Here he engaged Nathan Hunt to assist him in the search for the family, which had
                    scattered through the woods. Nathan was a staunch 
                        Quaker
                    , and, unknown to the slave-hunter, was a firm friend to the runaway negroes; but he
                    went with him in the hope of being able to lead him off the track. By and by they spied a little
                    woolly head and a pair of frightened eyes hid in a pile of brush. The master roughly pulled the
                    child out and gathering it in his arms, remarked, "Here is three hundred dollars
                    saved." Sathan could stand it no longer. He forgot all about his advocacies of peaceful
                    arbitration, and, with a decidedly combative instinct and much physical force, he drew the stout
                    stick which he carried in his hand, and, perhaps with less calmness of voice than is usually
                    employed in connection with the use of the "plain language," he said:
                    "Thee put that child down; it is none of thine." How much moral persuasion was
                    conveyed by the stick and the force with which it was wielded I do not know, but the child was
                    liberated. The case came to trial and money was collected to recompense the slave-owner for the loss
                    of his property.
            A tavern was kept by Mrs. Luvica White where now stands an old shop across the alley from the
                    residence of postmaster Charles Smith. One night a fugitive slave woman was brought here and placed
                    in an upper room. Scarcely was this done when two strange men came and applied for lodging, which
                    was given them. It soon became apparent that they were slave-hunters and were on the track of the
                    woman upstairs, having traced her to West-field. To leave her in the room would lead to almost
                    certain discovery; but there was no way of getting her out of the house except to pass through the
                    room in which the men were sitting. However, Mrs. White was equal to the emergency. She dressed the
                    negro woman in her own clothes, with bonnet and veil, prepared herself for the street, and the two
                    quietly left the house together without exciting the suspicion of the master. Mrs. White took the
                    woman to the house of her son, Mikajah White, where now Nathan H. Clark lives. There she was
                    secreted until the danger was past. This was about the year 1850.
            Louis Talbert escaped from 
                        Kentucky
                     and through the influence of friends became a student in the Union Literary Institute,
                         in 
                        Randolph county
                    . He made two unsuccessful attempts to rescue his sisters from. slavery, each time
                    bringing with him a number of runaway slaves. Determined to make another attempt to bring his
                    sisters out of bondage, he confided his plans to a fellow student, a young man from 
                        Westfield
                    , who, becoming interested in his story, offered to accompany him on his perilous
                    mission. A few months later Louis presented himself in West-field and reminded his friend of his
                    promise. He was taken to the house of Levi Pennington, who tried to dissuade him from his purpose;
                    but Louis was determined and confided his plans to Nathan Mrillits, who agreed to go with him.
                    Nathan, however, unwisely told a friend of their intentions; this friend told another person, who
                    knew Louis's master in 
                        Kentucky
                    , and wrote to him, disclosing the plot. The result was that when Louis reached 
                        Indianapolis
                     he was confronted by his master and carried back to slavery. A short time afterward he
                    again made his escape, again bringing a number of slaves with him. It was estimated that Louis
                    carried off $37,000. worth of slave property.
            Perhaps the most exciting event connected with the Underground Railroad in this vicinity was the
                    attempt to capture and carry back to slavery a family named Roads. One dark night in the year 1837
                    John Roads and his wife, Rhuann Maria, and their child, arrived at the home of Joseph Baker, near
                    Deming. They were brought thither in a closely covered wagon driven by a conductor of the
                    Underground Railroad and placed in hiding for a few days, when it was expected to forward them to 
                        Canada
                    . John and Rhuann were the property of Mr. Singleton Vaughn, who lived in 
                        Missouri
                    , where the slaves were born. John and Rhuann were married, and after the birth of their
                    child Mr. Vaughn removed with them to 
                        Illinois
                    , where they remained in his service for some months. After awhile it began to be said
                    that, having been kept in a free State by their master for more than six months, they were,
                    according to the law, entitled to their freedom. These rumors reaching the ears of Mr. Vaughn, he
                    discreetly moved them back to 
                        Missouri
                    . John in the meantime had heard of the Underground Railroad and of the friendship of
                    the Abolitionists for the slaves, and he cherished the hope that by  the help of these good friends he might some time escape to the land of
                    freedom.
            One day a strange man came to see their master, and, by listening to their conversation, they learned
                    that Rhuann was to be sold to a Southern planter and taken away. They at once concluded to make an
                    effort to secure the coveted freedom. With a few simple tools and a small bundle of clothing, they
                    stole from their cabin one dark night and started for 
                        Canada
                    . After long days of hiding and weary nights of travel they reached the
                        Mississippi river. Making a flimsy raft of logs, bound together with
                    grapevines, they succeeded in crossing. Before they reached the shore, however, the child became
                    frightened and cried so loud that, fearing it would lead to their discovery, John, driven to
                    desperation, threatened to stop its crying by throwing it overboard; but the mother plead for the
                    child's life, and they reached the shore without putting the terrible threat into
                    execution. Their pursuers were close upon them, however, and they were captured and taken to jail to
                    await trial. Through the efforts of the Abolitionists in 
                        Illinois
                     they escaped one night, and were spirited away on an Underground Railroad car, across
                    the prairies of 
                        Illinois
                    , and their pursuers lost all trace of them. Believing they would be safe, some of their
                    friends persuaded them to remain in the vicinity of Deming, Indiana. John was given employment, and
                    after awhile was able to purchase a bit of ground, upon which he built a cabin; but he never lost
                    the fear of being recaptured. No windows were made in his cabin, and the strong oak door was always
                    securely barred at night and an ax stood beside his bed while he slept.
            For several years they enjoyed their new-found freedom; other children were born to them and John was
                    kept busy supplying the needs of his family. Unfortunately, a man from Strawtown, Indiana, removed
                    to 
                        Missouri
                     and settled near John's old master, and in an evil hour Mr. Vaughn learned the
                    whereabouts of his slaves. He employed this man to assist him, and, armed with the necessary proofs,
                    he started to Indiana to recover his property. Arriving at Strawtown, he procured a warrant for the
                    arrest of the negroes, and with a posse of rough men, proceeded at night to the Roads cabin.
            
            John was awakened and told that he must surrender himself and family and return with his master to 
                        Missouri
                    . This he refused to do, and with his ax in hand stood at the door, threatening to kill
                    the first man who crossed the threshold. Fearing the desperate man, who was ready to defend his
                    liberty with his life, the men turned to the chimney, hoping to effect an entrance through the
                    fireplace; but Rhuann, equally desperate, kept up such a fire with the broken pieces of furniture,
                    burning her beds when all other fuel was exhausted, that they were defeated in the attempt, and the
                    master received such a blow from a hardened piece of clay in the hands of Rhuann, after they had
                    demolished the chimney, that they were glad to abandon the plan.
            Bravely the negroes held their position until day began to dawn, calling loudly for help the while.
                    Owen Williams and Jesse Baker, hearing their cries, started to the rescue, but were met by the armed
                    men and turned back. The alarm spread rapidly; runners were sent to 
                        Westfield
                     and to Deming to carry the news and to notify the people along the line.
            Joseph Baker was the next to arrive upon the scene; he refused to be halted by the besiegers and was
                    admitted into the cabin by John. Soon other neighbors began to arrive and Mr. Vaughn was questioned
                    as to his intentions; he replied that it was his intention to take the negroes before the proper
                    officers for identification, after which he intended to take them South. A consultation was held
                    which led to the proposition that if Mr. Vaughn would consent to go to 
                        Westfield
                     for trial the friends of John would advise him to surrender. This was agreed upon and
                    the entire party, slaves, officers and master, were taken to the home of Martin Anthony, where
                    breakfast was served.
            By this time the whole country was aroused and people began to gather for miles around. Those who had
                    horses came on horseback; those who had not came on foot. After some delay a team was procured and
                    John and his family placed in the wagon, guarded by the slave-owner and his armed men, and escorted
                    by the friends of the negroes to the number of one hundred and fifty or two hundred.
            Arriving at a point where the road divided, one branch leading  to 
                        Noblesville
                    , the other to 
                        Westfield
                    , Mr. Vaughn and his men placed themselves in front of the team and demanded that the
                    slaves be driven to 
                        Noblesville
                    ; at the same time armed men seized the horses by the bridles and attempted to turn them
                    in that direction. This caused great excitement, the friends of the negroes insisting that they
                    should be taken to 
                        Westfield
                     for trial. Amid the confusion Daniel F. Jones, a young man from 
                        Westfield
                    , sprang into the wagon, seized the reins, which the driver gladly relinquished, and
                    warning the men to get out of the road; that they. might shoot if they dared, but that he should
                    take that ream to 
                        Westfield
                    , he gave the horses a cut with the whip which caused them to spring suddenly forward;
                    the tongue of the wagon struck the horse of one of the officers in front, hurling him out of the
                    road and disarming him. Deftly turning the horses into the road leading to 
                        Westfield
                    , Mr. Jones startea on as brisk a trot as the condition of the roads would permit. So
                    swiftly did he drive that the entire cargo was spilled; or, as some one has expressed it,
                    "the bottom dropped out of the wagon" and the negroes were lost in
                    "Dismal Swamp," through which they passed. Here they took passage on the
                    Underground Railroad and Mr. Jones drove the horses and empty wagon to 
                        Westfield
                    .
            Mr. Vaughn and his party proceeded to 
                        Noblesville
                    , where he began suit against those who had assisted in the escape of the slaves. A
                    long, protracted trial followed, which was carried to 
                        Marion county
                    , and resulted in the finding that John and his wife, having been worked by their master
                    in 
                        Illinois
                    , a free State, for more than six months, they were entitled to their freedom. It cost
                    the defendants $600 in attorney's fees, besides much loss of time. John again
                    entered upon the life of a free man and lived in the community until his death.
            Mr. Isaac Roberts, of 
                        Westfield
                    , has in his possession an interesting old relic of the Underground Railroad, of which
                    the following story is told: Fifty years ago two runaway slaves, a man and a woman, were brought to
                    the home of his father, Judah Roberts, where it was thought best to detain them for awhile. They had
                    been two years in traveling the distance from their plantation home to 
                        Westfield
                    , hiding much of the time in southern  swamps and
                    forests. The man carried with him a scabbard in which was a dagger about two feet long, with which
                    to defend himself should he be overtaken, and to protect himself against bloodhounds. The weapon,
                    which is of fine workmanship, was probably stolen from some gentleman, and may have played an
                    important part in the exercise of southern chivalry.
            One day Mr. Roberts came to 
                        Westfield
                     and found the citizens somewhat excited over the arrival of some strange men who were
                    supposed to be slave-hunters. Hastening home, he warned the fugitives of their danger and prepared
                    to send them to a safer refuge. The slaves were greatly alarmed, and in their eagerness to start
                    forgot all about the dagger, which has remained in the Roberts family ever since.
         
         
         
            SETTLEMENT OF NOBLESVILLE, 
                        HAMILTON COUNTY
                    .
            
               BY J. G. FINCH.
            [The following narrative in typewritten form was given to the State Library of Indiana by W. W.
                    Woollen, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . It is the recollection by J. G. Finch in 1893 of the settlement in which he took part
                    as a boy of nine or ten years. Parts of the manuscript are omitted below, The narrative is
                    interesting not only as describing the settlement of an important part of the State, but as showing
                    conditions of travel and settlement everywhere.—EDITOR.]
            IN THE spring of 1819 a company was formed in 
                  Connersville, Fayette county
               , for the
                    purpose of making a settlement on the horseshoe prairie, which lies just below 
                        Noblesville
                    ; a large scope of territory had been purchased of the Indians the winter before and
                    they were anxious to have the first choice of land. That company was composed of the following
                    persons: Solomon Finch and family, Israel Finch, William Bush and two sons, and James Willison.
                    Israel Finch, Eush and Willison were going to put in a crop and return for their families some time
                    during the summer. Besides these there were Aaron Finch and Amasa Chapman, son and stepson of John
                    Finch, who, himself, expected to follow towards fall. There were three wagons in the company,
                    Solomon Finch's family in one, Bush in another, and Willison in another. They left 
                        Connersville
                     on the first day of April, as near as I can recollect. I was between nine and ten years
                    old at the time and can only recollect such things as would come under the notice of a child of that
                    age.
            The first incident of the journey I recollect was that they had me on an old gray horse they had with
                    them. It was snowing hard and they making their way along very slowly with their ox-team, driving
                    some stock and cutting the road as they went. I got to crying and they came to see what was the
                    matter. I told them I was so cold that my back was cracked. They found I was in pretty bad
                    condition, so chilled that I could hardly sit on the horse. Israel Finch carried a kettle of coals
                    so that they would not be detained so long by having to make a fire by the slow process of flint and
                    steel. They took me and the fire and  went on ahead to where was
                    an old Indian camp called Sage Green's camp, where they expected to stay all night, and by
                    the time the team came up he had me pretty well warmed up.
            The next event of any note was when we reached Blue river, where Newcastle now
                    is. That stream was very high and no chance to cross it except by bridging it, so they pitched their
                    tents and prepared for the work. That night it rained so hard that everything in the wagons and
                    tents were thoroughly wet through and through. As soon as they could they went to work at the
                    bridge. The river there seemed to be a mere ditch, winding along between the tall trees in the
                    bottom, and it was but little trouble for them to find trees long enoygh to reach across the stream,
                    so they felled two of them and got the trunks together, cut other trees and made puncheons of them
                    by splitting them as thin as they could and covered the logs alrcady prepared for them so that the
                    wagons passed over them in safety. George Shirts and Charles Lacey had preceded this company a few
                    days on pack horses, following the same Indian trail we were on. Lacey was going on to put in a crop
                    and return for his family. Shirts had his family and was going to work for Bill Conner, who was then
                    an Indian trader and living with an Indian wife about two miles below where we were going to settle.
                    We would frequently see where they had camped for the night.∗
            Our trail led us past Andersontown, now 
                        Anderson
                    , which was then nothing but an Indian town. We reached the river [White
                    river] just at the mouth of Stony creek. The river was very high and locked [backed]
                    Stony creek up so that it looked more like a lake than a creek. Whilst we were waiting for the men
                    to get a canoe four or five little Indians came to us with bows and arrows. They stood around for
                    some time looking at us in perfect silence; then each one shot an arrow at a beech tree some
                    distance off and they disappeared in the forest.
            As soon as they got everything across the river they started up where the dam used to be and then
                    crossed the prairie to the ridge where the old mill-race turns south. There they unloaded and
                    pitched their tents and went to work with a will. Bush located 
                  ∗The trail this party followed from Connerwille via Newcastle and 
                                Anderson
                             was practically the railroad route of to-day.— Editor.
               
                     a little south of the Finches and Willison was to have settled
                    still south of him along the ridge, but he changed his mind before his family came and built on the
                    bluff at the mouth of Stony creek. Some went to cutting logs for the cabin, some to hauling and
                    others to making clapboards to cover the house with. They had all their effects in the tent, dishes
                    piled on the table, and one day the wind was blowing, a limb fell from a tree on the dishes and
                    broke nearly all they had. Lacey one day shot a fine deer, of which they all got a part. As soon as
                    the cabin was fit to shelter them they all went to work to put in a crop of corn. Indians visited us
                    almost daily, and with one of the parties that called on us was a fine young darkey, always with the
                    same family. In the spring of 1820 this darkey went to work for Conner and that fall a Kentuckian
                    was through looking at the country, saw the darkey. went home, got a posse of men and came and took
                    him, claiming he was his slave, but the negro went off declaring he had never been a slave.
            All the playmates I had from April until July were little Indians. My favorite was one with a red
                    head. I used to go with him hunting with bow and arrows for ground squirrels and birds or to the
                    river for fish. One day he commenced singing some Indian song which scared me, so I started for
                    home. That still sounds in my ears; it was, "Yoh an awa gow haw." That was just
                    repeated over and over. I was so scared that 1 struck across the prairie for home, though he begged
                    me to go on. I thought my time had come and that was my scalp song.
            About the first of July Israel Finch, Bush and Willison went back for their families and soon after
                    they got there we began to get sick. Uncle John came in some time in August and we had to give up
                    that cabin to him, as he had furnished most of the labor, and my father built a little cabin about
                    100 or 150 yards southwest. In September sickness set in in earnest; nearly every one would be down
                    at the same time, not one to help another when the ague was on. Our provisions gave out and sixty or
                    seventy miles to the settlement. Canner had a little corn, which he sold them at a dollar a bushel.
                    This they had to pound in a mortar, sift out the finest of it for bread and boil the coarser of it
                    and eat it with milk. They called it samp. O, how tired I  got of
                    such fare! but no help for it. They would pound the corn after the ague went off and the fever
                    subsided a little.
            In the fore part of October Amasa Chapman died and also George Finch. Some time during the summer
                    George Shirts' wife died. She was buried down on the Conner farm.
            As soon as the corn was hard enough to grate they made a grater of tin, something after the fashion
                    of a nutmeg grater. It made much better meal than when pounded. Some time during the fall or winter
                    Bush made a little hand mill, the burrs as large as a good-sized grindstone. He drilled a hole near
                    the edge of the top burr, drove a peg in it by which it could be turned after the fashion of a
                    millstone. During the winter they built a horse mill. People began to settle in the spring of 1820
                    where 
                        Indianapolis
                     now is, and they came up there to do their grinding on the horse mill. A part of the
                    Indians came and camped on Cicero creek about two hundred yards from the mouth. They had some
                    whisky, got drunk, used their knives freely on each other. I don't recollect the number of
                    deaths, but one of them lay all winter so bad they were expecting him to die.
            The nettles grew very plentiful in Cicero bottoms, and during the winter it was found they had as
                    good a lint as flax or hemp, and in the spring they were in good condition for working up. We all
                    had shirts, pants, towels, sheets and under bed ticks made of these nettles. They seemed to be
                    something to us about like the manna was to the children of 
                        Israel
                    . One little fellow was going to gather nettles enough to make him a pair of leather
                    pants.
            Baxter came in the spring of 1820 or the fall of 1819. In the spring of 1820 the settlers thought the
                    bald eagles, of which there were a great many along the river, were catching their lambs. They shot
                    some of the eagles, but I have always thought the lambs were caught by wildcats. This spring [1820]
                    a man named Jacob Andrick came to the prairie and bought Bush's improvements and Bush moved
                    down by Conner's. Andrick had no family [children], but his brother-in-law, Judah, was with
                    him. Andrick built a new and much better house than Bush had; the logs were hewn and two rooms to
                    it, with a porch between. Some time during the summer Mrs. Andrick died and later on her  brother Judah died. Then we moved into the Andrick house. Andrick had
                    expected to buy the prairie land and had agreed to pay the settlers for their improvements, but
                    Conner oatbid him at the sales and never paid them a cent for their improvements, claiming that the
                    improvements he was going to make in the country would more than pay them. He was going to put up a
                    saw mill, a grist mill, a carding machine and a distillery, which he did in the summer of 1823.
            In the summer of 1820 Sarah Finch taught a school there in the little cabin where Israel Finch had
                    lived. I think there were but seven scholars—Rebecca Finch, F. M. Finch, Angeline Finch,
                    Marcella Finch, William Finch, Almine Finch and J. G. Finch. A few days before the Fourth of July
                    Curtis Mallery came to the prairie. I think he came from 
                        Massachusetts
                     or 
                        Vermont
                    . The settlers thought they must have a Fourth of July celebration this year, and about
                    the time Mallery came they were making preparations. They drove forks in the ground, laid poles on
                    them and then covered it with brush with the leaves on. Under this shade they ate their dinners and
                    drank their toasts with great glee and hilarity. At night they had a dance. There was no such thing
                    as a fiddle in fifty miles of them, so they had to depend entirely on vocal music.
            About the first of September sickness set in again, but it was not so bad on those that were there
                    the year before. Mallery's family were all down and two of them died. In November my little
                    brother Augustus got so badly scalded by upsetting a kettle of boiling water on himself that he died
                    in about twelve hours. Thaddeus Owens died this fall, I think.
            In the spring of 1821 my father moved down to Conner's to help Shirts raise a crop of corn
                    for him. That spring a keel-boat came up from 
                        Indianapolis
                     and took off the corn the darkey had raised for Conner the year before. A great many
                    Indians left that yeah and went down the river in canoes. Amongst the number was one of John
                    Conner's children. John had also been a trader and had a squaw for a wife, but had kept the
                    lad with him when he settled at 
                        Connersville
                    . But when the Indians were  leaving he sent him, now
                    a young man, to his brother's to be ready to leave with the other Indians.∗
            The land came into market and Conner, having bought the settlers' improvements, came on to
                    carry out his plans for his improvements. [It was quite a common thing for settlers to locate before
                    land was officially surveyed and thrown open to entry and purchase by settlers. The universal custom
                    prevailed that the "squatters" should either be allowed to enter their land
                    themselves or be paid for their improvements by those who did enter it.—Editor.] My
                    father and George Shirts took the contract for digging the mill-race, broke up and got nothing for
                    their work except what they took up for hired help and other expenses. Conner finished it himself.
                    Between the river and the ridge where the race turns south they found a bed of broken crockery ware.
                    It had apparently been dried in the sun as the Mexicans dry their idols.
            After the sale of the lands Uncle John settled upon Little Stony creek. Bush bought the land where
                    the carbon works now [1893] are and sold it to Ridgeway. Willison bought all the land south of Bush
                    to the mouth of Stony creek, sold it to Potter, and Potter to Frybarger. Mr. Baxter bought up
                    joining Conner's land, including a small piece of the prairie, and built another cabin on
                    the ridge northwest of where the first cabin was built. Lacy bought up the land on the west side of
                    the river down by Conner's. Solomon Finch settled about a mile southeast of the Sohl farm,
                    which Judge John Finch bought of Congress. He gave Israel Finch some land adjoining his. Aaron
                    settled on Stony creek down toward Hall's mill. There was a school taught in 1823 just
                    across that little branch north of the Indian graveyard.
            I believe this ends the story of the settlement. I am sorry I could not put it in better shape, but I
                    am no writer.
            
               The Indians left the various tracts of land purchased from them by the 
                            United States
                         government, moving to tracts not yet sold.—Editor.
            
         
         
         
            BROOKVILLE'S ROUNDED CENTURY—JUNE, 1908.
            
               BY HUBERT M. SKINNER.
            [A short sketch of "The Beginning of 
                        Brookville
                    ," by Amos W. Butler, was published in this magazine, December, 1905 (Vol. 1,
                    p. 209). In the same number there is an article, "Recollections of Early
                    Brookville," by John M. Johnson (p. 195), an article on "The Whitewater
                        Valley" (pp. 204–208), and on "The 
                        Richmond
                     and 
                        Brookville
                     Canal" (pp. 189–194).]
            FAMOUS old 
                        Brookville
                    , in the forks of the Whitewater river, in Indiana, is now
                    celebrating its centennial. It will not be many years until a number of other old towns in the
                    Hoosier State will be entitled to the same privilege; but as for 
                        Brookville
                    , it has been slumbering for some years upon its rights, it would seem. One hundred and
                    four years ago, we are told, Michael Pilky and Charles Zelier, who seem to have been Frenchmen, had
                    been residing for some time upon the banks of the East Fork, somewhere near the confluence of the
                    two streams; and Amos Butler, a young and enterprising Pennsylvanian, was on the spot, planning the
                    erection of a mill and selecting sites for homes for his family and friends. A year later, in 1805,
                    Butler's mill arose, and the company of immigrants who came with the proprietor on
                    packhorses formed a considerable village.
            It was in 1808, however, that the town was regularly surveyed, a blockhouse was built for its
                    protection, and the settlement received the name of Brooksville—which name was
                    subsequently modified by the dropping of the sibilant letter. A tavern was erected for the
                    entertainment of sojourners, and various shops were opened for a variety of industries.
            The age of 
                        Brookville
                    , however, is by no means its chief distinction. Nor can it boast of having ever had a
                    large population. Probably its inhabitants have never numbered more than its three thousand souls of
                    to-day. 
                        Brookville
                    's fame rests upon the astonishing number of distinguished men who have gone
                    forth from the town, through the successive decades, to win laurels in various fields of endeavor.
                    When visitors to the town have seen there the former residences of six famous Governors, they have
                    uttered expressions of surprise. But, really, this showing is a 
                    matter of little moment to the genuine Brookviller, for there are so many others—so many,
                    when you come to think of them all—who are no less worthy of remembrance.
            Without any great names to its credit, 
                        Brookville
                     would still be famous for the singularity and beauty bestowed upon it by the hand of
                    nature. On either side the clear rivers flow, and at the south end of the town they unite in a broad
                    stream. Round about are piled high hills, which display an ever-present panorama of the changing
                    seasons, as if painted on the sky. To the north is Butler's Hill, and
                    between the ridges Butler's run hurries down "to join the brimming
                    river."
            In 1810 the village had become so populous and so secure that the blockhouse was not deemed necessary
                    for defense, and it was enlarged and turned into a store and a hotel, becoming noted fat and wide as
                    the "Yellow Tavern." But in the War of 1812 the town was kept in a constant state
                    of alarm, for it was threatened by hostile Indians. Saylor's Fort was erected about three
                    miles below, to which the people might retreat if the worst should come to the worst. Meanwhile, it
                    was a common thing for the houses to be provided with loopholes for use in sudden emergencies.
            A reminder of that period is the Little Cedar Grove Church, which the Baptists dedicated in 1812,
                    three miles to the southeast of the town, on the 
                        Harrison
                     pike, and which, though now unused, looks much as it did in generations gone. It is
                    built of hard bricks, of large size. It has a commodious gallery, supported by massive hewn pillars;
                    and in the center of the church is a stone hearth, upon which charcoal was burned in cold
                    weather—for stoves were not common in the West in that early day.
            It is a legend of 
                        Brookville
                     that the building of this church was a. result of the "warning" given
                    by the great earthquake of the previous year, 1811, which was felt very generally throughout the
                        Mississippi valley, and which the preachers of that day utilized to great
                    advantage in terrifying sinners. The first complete minutes of the "Little Cedar Grove
                    Church Book" date from October 5, 1806; and the record, which is still preserved, comes
                    down unbroken to April 3, 1830. In 1820 was built the old brick 
                    church which stands in the cemetery near the old 
                        Brookville
                     College, which is now the public school building of the town.
            Immediately following the admission of the State, 
                        Brookville
                     achieved high rank among the manufacturing centers of the new West. Grist mills, a
                    sawmill, a fulling mill, a tannery, a rope-walk, a carding mill, a hat factory, a pottery factory,
                    and shops of tailors, blacksmiths, carpenters shoemakers, saddlers and harnessmakers, weavers and
                    wagonmakers were humming with industry. There were numerous stores, and a bank of wide circulation.
                    The Whitewater was navigated in favorable seasons by boats of light draft, and cargoes of products
                    were shipped direct to 
                        New Orleans
                    .
            In 1833 the cotton factory of 
                        Brookville
                     turned 1,600 spindles and a dozen power looms. The lumber, flour, wagons, plows and
                    other agricultural implements, rope, cotton and woolen cloths, paper, leather, hats, etc.,
                    manufactured in the town were widely famed and brought to the place a lively trade. The inhabitants
                    began to build fine, large mansions. Stone pavements were laid. Cool, clear water was brought down
                    from Butler's run and distributed through the town in wooden pipes.
            The once famous canal, with its costly locks and viaducts, was opened on the 8th of June, 1839, when
                    the "Ben Franklin" came from 
                        Cincinnati
                     with its first boatload of passengers. The canal did service as a freight line until
                    the close of the Civil War, after which its towpath was used for the construction of the present
                    railway line.
            But it was of the famous men of 
                        Brookville
                     that I started to write. Let us, in imagination, visit the town in, say, the year 1820.
                    Here is the land office, in charge of Robert Hanna, the childhood companion and lifelong friend of
                    Thomas Jefferson, now in retirement at Monticello. Here is a store kept by Samson Powers, who lives
                    with his widowed mother. Her other son is a clerk in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , Hiram Powers, who is to become a famous sculptor. Here is the Eads store. William H.
                    Eads is the proprietor. He is a member of the State Senate. His brother Toni is with him.
                    Tom's son is the James B. Eads who is to build the great 
                        St. Louis
                     bridge over the 
                        Mississippi
                    , and to construct the greatest system of jetties that the world has ever  seen. There is another boy, about six years old. They call him
                    "Abe." This is Abram S. Hammond, destined to be Governor of Indiana in the
                    critical period immediately preceding the great war.
            We shall find here a tavern kept by Andrew Wallace. Two of his sons, David and Thomas, are not at
                    home. The former is at West Point, where he is to be graduated later with honor. He will yet be
                    Lieutenant-Governor, then Governor, of his State. Later, as a member of Congress, he will secure,
                    against fierce opposition, the appropriation of money by Congress to test the experiment of
                    Morse—the magnetic telegraph—and thus give the world the great boon of that
                    wonderful invention. Thomas Wallace, the other son, now at 
                        Annapolis
                    , is to win laurels in the navy.
            There is another boy also, young Oliver H. Glisson, who is to achieve celebrity as rear admiral of
                    the 
                        United States
                     navy.
            Here is the blacksmith shop of the unkempt and careless Herndon, whose son, W. L. Herndon, is to be
                    one of the world's heroes. Young Herndon will perform valiant service in the Mexican War,
                    and will manage the great, proud Naval Academy, and, as a naval officer, will explore the Amazon
                    region. Later, as commander of that ill-starred vessel, the "Central 
                        America
                    ," with its five hundred passengers, and its two million dollars in gold, he
                    will sail from old "Aspinwall" (now the city of Colon, in the 
                        Canal Zone
                    ), on the 3d of September, 1857. In the awful ocean storm of the 12th he will refuse to
                    desert his ship, but will put all the passengers and crew into the lifeboats, and, standing on the
                    wheelhouse, glass in hand, a heroic figure marked against the sky, will take the awful plunge with
                    the ship which he has commanded. A daughter of Herndon became the wife of President Chester A.
                    Arthur.
            On the hill is the house of James Noble, a forceful member of the 
                        United States
                     Senate. Noah Noble, now sheriff of the county, is to be Governor of Indiana for two
                    terms. Near him lives James B. Ray, who is to be Governor of the State for seven years—to
                    serve as acting Governor, and to be twice elected for three-year terms. A noteworthy residence is
                    the home of John Test, who has resided here since 1812, and who is to become a  noted Congressman. Jesse L. Thomas, a former resident of 
                        Brookville
                    , now represents the State of 
                        Illinois
                     in the 
                        United States
                     Senate, where, in this very year—1820—he is to originate and
                    carry thqough to enactment the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise restriction of slavery, so long mistakenly attributed to Henry Clay
                    —a law which largely determined the ultimate overthrow of slavery in the Union.
            Succeeding decades after 1820 did not show a retrogression of the town in respect of its citizens,
                    though its industrial and commercial importance sadly declined. People of 
                        Brookville
                     will point out to you the birthplace of General Lew Wallace, Governor of 
                        New Mexico
                    , minister to 
                        Turkey
                     and author of "Ben-Hur" and "The Prince of 
                        India
                    ." They will show you the old home of John P. St. John, the historic
                    Prohibition Governor of 
                        Kansas
                     and candidate for the Presidency. They will point out the birthplace of Naurice
                    Thompson, the poet and naturalist, of whom the State is so proud. They will tell you of the boyhood
                    home of Edward Eggleston, author of "The Hoosier Schoolmaster," who created a new
                    school of authorship in English literature. They will show you the old Tyner homestead, recalling
                    memories of Postmaster-General Tyner, of Grant's administration. They will tell you of the
                    boyhood of General James S. Clarkson, surveyor of the port of 
                        New York
                    , and long prominent in the leadership of the Republican party. They will point out to
                    you the home of Dr. John R. Goodwin, once Comptroller at 
                        Washington
                    . Amos Butler, scientist and sociologist, president of the National Conference of
                    Charities and Correction, is another of the one-time citizens of 
                        Brookville
                    .
            The 
                        Brookville
                     of to-day does not seem nearly so old as seemed the 
                        Brookville
                     of a quarter-century ago. Old towns grow younger in dress and in spirit as the
                    generations pass and the antiquated is replaced by the modern. Relic after relic disappears from the
                    landscape.
            Near the East Fork is preserved the old Speer mansion, known as "The Hermitage."
                    This is now the home of the artist, J. Ottis Adarns, who took the first prize this year in the
                    exhibit of the Western Artists' Association at 
                        Chicago
                    , and who received the gold medal at the 
                        St. Louis
                     Exposition of 1904 for his painting  portraying a
                    bit of the east bank of the Whitewater facing the mansion. T. C. Steele is likewise associated with
                    the place, having made it one of his chief resorts for years.
            These artists, already long famous, are growing in reputation with each passing year. About them are
                    wont to gather, in the summer season, the artists and art-lovers of a wide circle. For-syth and
                    Meakin, painters; Barnhorn, the sculptor, and Naka-gawa, the Japanese water-colorist, are among the
                    best known of these, whose works as well as their visits testify to the beauty of 
                        Brookville
                    's scenery.
         
         
         
            AN EARLY CONTRIBUTION FROM THE FRIENDS TO THE INDIANS.
            
                    An Extract from "Seth Smith's 
                            Baltimore
                        , One Thousand Eight Hundred and Four, According to the Present
                    Callendar."
                
            The meeting was last year informed that the western Indians, in the Neighborhood of Fort-
                        Wayne
                    , were desirous of engaging in the cultivation of their lands, that they had requested
                    the assistance of friends—And that the President of the 
                        United States
                     was authorized to prohibit the introduction of spiritous liquors amongst
                    them.—This being the situation of the business; sow of the Committee were impressed with
                    a belief, that it was necessary something should be done in it, and accordingly procured last
                    spring, for the use of the Indians; 6 sets of Plough Irons, and their appurtenances, such as
                    clevises, &c; 10 leather collars, 10 pair of Haims, 10 Pair of iron chains, & 10
                    Backbands, 50 Axes, 6 Mattocks, 6 iron wedges, 6 Maul rings and 50 Hoes—which were sent
                    to Pittsburg, from whence they were to be immediately conveyed to Fort-
                        Wayne
                    , and delivered as a present from the Society of Friends here, to the Little Turtle and
                    other chiefs, to be disposed of to such of their people as they knew were desirous of using
                    them.—We also wrote a letter to the Indians, and one to William Wells (the agent at that
                    place), and have received his answer; informing that on the 25th of the 7th month, he had an account
                    of the Articles being on their way from 
                        Cincinnati
                     and he expected they would arrive in a few days, and he would deliver them as directed,
                    would also receive the reply of the Indians, to our letter to them, and forward it to us. This we
                    have not yet received.—
            The agent also informs that since there has been no spirituous liquor in the Indian Country, they are
                    very industrious, and appea- to be fond of raising stock. And gives it as his opinion, that the
                    suppression of spirituous liquor in that Country, is the best thing that ever was done for them by
                    the 
                        United States
                    . That there has not been one Indian killed in that Neighborhood this year; and there
                    has not been a year before since the treaty of  Grenville, in
                    which there were less than 10 killed and some years as many as 30—The agent further adds,
                    that the Indians appear very desirous of procuring for themselves, the necessaries of life in our
                    way; but say, they do not know how to begin.,—some of their old men say to him,
                    "The white people want for nothing.—We wish them to show us how to procure the
                    many good things we see amongst them. If it is their wish to instruct us Indians, in their way of
                    living; as they tell us it is; we wish them to make haste and do it—For we are old and
                    must soon die—but we wish to see our women and children in that Path; which will lead
                    them to happiness before we die—"
         
         
         
            INDIANA'S FIRST SUNDAY-SCHOOL CONVENTION.
            
               BY GEORGE S. COTTMAN.
            THE first Sunday-school convention in Indiana was held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     fifty-three years ago, or, more specifically, on October 27, 28 and 29, 1857, and was
                    in response to a call issued by a few zealous men who deemed that in the religious instruction of
                    the children lay the hope of the church. The State had for years been active in Sunday-school work,
                    and, according to the statement of one of the workers, 
                        Indianapolis
                     was "regarded as the greatest Sunday-school city in the 
                        Union
                    ." The idea of conventions was already in the air, several having been held in
                    other States, and the first suggestion for one here was made by J. W. McIntyre at one of the monthly
                    meetings of the Indianapols Sabbath-School Association. Acting on this suggestion, a committee
                    canvassed the State by letter and circular and elicited an encouraging response. The press generally
                    was hospitable to the idea and most of the railroads offered half-rate transportation to delegates.
                    Hence the call was issued, the object of the convention, as specified, being: "To seek out
                    the best ways of conducting and teaching Sabbath-schools, and to promote a more general interest in
                    the religious education of the young, and greater results from Sabbath-school instruction."
            The attendance and interest evinced quite equaled the expectations of the promoters of the
                    convention. Delegates came from all parts of the State. Of these there were 341 who enrolled and
                    many besides who did not give their names to the secretary. At some of the meetings the old Wesleyan
                    Chapel, on the Circle, was taxed to the utmost to accommodate the attendance.
            The 341 enrolled delegates at this convention represented 166 schools, in the following
                    denominational proportion: Methodist, 65; Old and New School Presbyterian, 37; Union
                    Sabbath-Schools, 23; Baptist, 14; United Brethren, 8; Christian, 8; Lutheran, 3; Cumberland
                    Presbyterian, 2; Congregational, 2; Friends, I; Protestant Methodist, I; Episcopal, I; Associated
                    Reformed  Presbyterian, 1. The Methodists led all the others with
                    138 delegates.
            Tables of statistics compiled as part of the work of this convention name 223 Sunday-schools in the
                    State with an aggregate attendance of a little less than 17,000 pupils.
            The majority of these schools report an increasing prosperity, but during the war period they
                    evidently shared in the general setback, for in the convention of 1865 there were but 150 delegates,
                    representing 125 schools, with 14,600 pupils. After the war the movement gained strength, and in
                    1873 it forged ahead with a showing of 3,116 schools and 252,000 pupils, which was far in advance of
                    the previous year. In 1877 Indiana attained to third rank in the Union as a Sunday-school State, for
                    which credit is given to the labors of W. H. Levering, of 
                        Lafayette
                    , who was a zealous worker in this field.
            In 1887 Indiana had the largest delegation of any State in the Union at the fifth International
                    Convention, held at 
                        Chicago
                    .
            The convention of 1857 is so sunk in oblivion that Mr. Timothy Nicholson, in a historical address on
                    the subject, credits the convention of 1865 as the first State meeting. Between these two dates no
                    other seems to have been held, but since 1865 the annual convention has been convtinuous
         
         
         
            BIBLIOGRAPHY OF TOWN AND CITY HISTORIES IN THE INDIANA STATE LIBRARY.
            
               BY LILLIAN E. HENLEY.
            
               Cannelton. 
                     American Cannel Coal Company. Cannelton, 
                                    Perry county
                                , Ind., at the intersection of the eastern margin of the 
                                    Illinois
                                 coal basin, by the Ohio river; its natural advantages
                                as a site for manufacturing. 1850.
                  
                    
               Corydon. 
                     Lemmon, D. F. Ancient capital of State of Indiana, Corydon, 
                                    Harrison county
                                . 1891. (Pam.)
                     
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Star. Old letter tells of former capital. State House custodian unearths
                                epistle giving history of Corydon. 1907.
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Crawfordsville
                        . 
                     
                        
                                    Crawfordsville
                                 Journal. Souvenir edition, Oct. 19, 1894. 1894
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Evansville
                        . 
                     
                        
                                    Evansville
                                 Evening Tribune. Art souvenir of representative men, public buildings,
                                private residences, business houses. 1894.
                     Parrett, W. E. Early history of 
                                    Evansville
                                . 1880.
                     Robert, C. E. Evansville. 1874.
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Fort Wayne
                        . 
                     Brice, W. A. History of 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                . 1868.
                  
                    
               French Lick. 
                     Rhodes, A. J. Souvenir; French' Lick and West Baden, history and story from
                                1810–1904. 1904.
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Goshen
                        . 
                     
                        
                                    Bartholomew
                                , H. S. K. History of the county-seat (
                                    Elkhart county
                                ). 1905. (Taken from 
                                    Goshen
                                 Democrat, Sept. 6, 1905.)
                     
                        
                                    Goshen
                                 Daily News. Twentieth century 
                                    Goshen
                                , illustrated history edition. 1901.
                  
                    
               
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        . 
                     American Journal of Progress. Special extra number, descriptive of and illustrating 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana. 1899.
                     Bicknell, E. P. 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , ed. by Edgar H. Evans. 1893.
                     Bolton, Nathaniel. Early history of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and central Indiana. 1897. (Pam.)
                     Brown, Ignatius. History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 from 1818–1868. 1868.
                     Commemorative biographical record of prominent and representative men of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and vicinity, containing biographical sketches of business and professional
                                men and many of the early settled families. 1908.
                     Fletcher, J. C. Early 
                                    Indianapolis
                                ; the Fletcher papers, (n. d.)
                     Gravure Illustration Co. Art work of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                . 9 pts. 1908.
                     Graydon, M. M. Early 
                                    Indianapolis
                                . 1907.
                     Historical sketch of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                . (In Howard, A. C. Directory for the city of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                . 1857. p. 1–64.)
                     Holloway, W. R. 
                                    Indianapolis
                                . 1870.
                     Howe, D. W. Making a capital in the wilderness. 1908.
                     Hyman, M. R. Handbook of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , an outline history and description of the capital of Indiana. 1909.
                     
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 of to-day, compiled by Consolidated Illustrating Co. 1896.
                     
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                . 1889.
                     
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                —Commercial Club. Souvenir of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                . 1907.
                     
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News. Souvenir, 1900. (Pam.)
                     
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 Sentinel. 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and its resources. 1891.
                     Merrill, Catharine. 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 in war time. (In her The man Shakespeare and other essays. 1902. p.
                                66–89.)
                     Nowland, J. H. B. Early reminiscences of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                . 1870.
                     Nowland, J. H. B. Sketches of prominent citizens of 1876.
                     Pictorial and biographical memoirs of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion county
                                , Ind. 1893.
                     
                     Stickney, I. S. Pioneer 
                                    Indianapolis
                                . 1907.
                     Sulgrove, B. R. History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion county
                                . 1884.
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Jeffersonville
                        . 
                     History of 
                                    Ohio
                                 Falls cities and their counties with … biographical sketches.
                                2v. 1882.
                  
                    
               Ladoga. 
                     Anderson, W. L., ed. Early history of Ladoga, also containing a brief account of its
                                rise and of the community surrounding it. 1909.
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Lafayette
                        . 
                     Hassam, Loren. Historical sketch of 
                                    Lafayette
                                , Ind., its attractions as a home. 1872.
                     Souvenir of 
                                    Lafayette
                                 and the many beautiful places in the vicinity, including Purdue University
                                and the Soldiers' Home. n. d.
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Logansport
                        . 
                     Collins, Charles. Complete description of 
                                    Logansport
                                , Ind. Its history from its first settlement to the present day.
                            1876.
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Marion
                        . 
                     Leader. (
                                    Marion
                                , Ind.) Marvelous Marion, the Queen City of the Indiana gas belt; souvenir.
                                1892.
                  
                    
               Mechanicsburg. 
                     Weeks, Emily. History of Mechanicsburg, Ind. 1907.
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Michigan City
                        . 
                     Evening News. 
                                    Michigan City
                                , illustrated historical, descriptive and biographical. Review of a
                                half-century's advance. 1900.
                     Oglesbee, R. B. History of 
                                    Michigan City
                                , Ind. 1908.
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Muncie
                        . 
                     City of 
                           Muncie, Delaware county
                        , Ind., its advantages as a manufacturing
                                center and its railway and other facilities. 1882.
                  
                    
               
                  
                            New Albany
                        . 
                     Commercial and manufacturing advantages of 
                                    New Albany
                                . 1857.
                     
                     History of 
                                    Ohio
                                 Falls cities and their counties with … biographical sketches.
                                2v. 1882.
                     Robbins, D. P. 
                                    New Albany
                                , Ind., its advantages and surroundings; history of a progressive
                                manufacturing city, comp. under the auspices of the Commercial Club. 1892.
                     Scribner, H. R. Early days of 
                                    New Albany
                                , a paper read before the Fortnightly Club of 
                                    New Albany
                                , Mar. 16, 1901.
                  
                    
               
                        
                            New Harmony
                        . 
                     Brown, Paul. Twelve months in 
                                    New Harmony
                                . 1827.
                     Corbin, Mrs. C. F. Position of women in socialistic Utopia. 1901.
                     Faux, W. Memorable days in 
                                    America
                                , being a journal of a tour to the 
                                    U. S.
                                 1823.
                     Lockwood, G. B. 
                                    New Harmony
                                 communities. 1902.
                     — 
                                    New Harmony
                                 movement, with a collaboration of Chas. A. Prosser in the preparation of
                                the educational chapter. 1905.
                     Podmore, Frank. Robert Owen, a biography. 2v. 1907.
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Richmond
                        . 
                     Bartel, F. J. Institutional influence of the German element of the population of 
                                    Richmond
                                . (Pam.)
                     Directory of the city of 
                                    Richmond
                                , together with a historical sketch by J. T. Plummer. 1857.
                     Dalbey, E. F., & Dalbey, W. L. Pictorial history of the city of 
                                    Richmond
                                , Ind. 1896.
                  
                    
               Rushville. 
                     Johnson, G. L., and Campbell, G. W., comp. Commercial history of Rushville and 
                                    Rush county
                                , representing the manufacturing, professional and commercial interests and
                                resources of the county in general. 1899.
                  
                    
               
                  
                            Terre Haute
                        . 
                     Art souvenir of representative men, public buildings, private residences, business
                                houses, and points of interest in 
                                    Terre Haute
                                . 1894.
                     Hassam, Loren. A historical sketch of 
                                    Terre Haute
                                , Ind., its advantages for manufacture and attractions as a home.
                  
                    
               
               
                  
                            Vincennes
                        . 
                     Baker, O F. History of knox county. Pt. I. 
                                    Vincennes
                                . n. d. (Pam.)
                     Cauthorn, H. S. History of the city of 
                                    Vincennes
                                , Ind., from 1702–1901. 1901.
                     Faux, W. Memorable days in 
                                    America
                                , being a journal of a tour of the 
                                    U. S.
                                 1823.
                     Law, John. Colonial history of 
                                    Vincennes
                                . 1858.
                     (The) Old Post; a souvenir of historical 
                                    Vincennes
                                . n. d.
                     Smith, H. M. Historical sketches of old 
                                    Vincennes
                                 … its institutions and churches, embracing collateral incidents
                                and biographical sketches of many persons and events connected therewith. 1902.
                     Western Sun. Centennial anniversary number, 1804-July, 1904
                  
                    
               West Baden. 
                     Rhodes, A. Souvenir; French Lick and West Baden, history and story from
                                1810–1904. 1904.
                  
                    
            
         
         
         
            INDEX OF HISTORICAL ARTICLES IN INDIANA NEWSPAPERS.
            MARCH, 1910–MAY, 1910
            
               PREPARED BY MISS FLORENCE VENN, Reference Librarian, Indiana State Library.
            Abbreviations: Ind., 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; mag. sec., magazine section; p., page; c., column.
            
               Adair, Joseph W. Death of well-known jurist. 
                            Ft. Wayne
                         Journal-Gazette, April 7, 1910, p. 1, c. 7.
               Bloomingdale academy. History of. 
                            Indianapolis
                         News, April 16, 1910, p. 15, c. 2.
               Blue Spring community. History of. 
                            Terre Haute
                         Star, April 10, 1910, mag. sec., p. 3.
               Catholic church. History of St. hndrews, oldest Catholic parish in 
                     Richmond. Richmond
                   Palladium, May 15, 1910, p. 3, c. 1.
               Chapman, John. Story of Johnny Appleseed. 
                            Evansville
                         Journal-News, April 10, 1910, mag. sec., p. 5.
               Civil war. Battle of Pleasant Hill, La., as described by the diary of an
                        Indiana officer. 
                            Terre Haute
                         Star, May 22, 1910, P. 33, c. 4.
               — Civil war nurse talks of old days. 
                            Terre Haute
                         Star, May 22, 1910, p. 25, c. 1.
               Democratic party. Democratic rooster is of Hoosier origin. 
                            Indianapolis
                         Star, May 22, 1910, mag. sec., p. 5. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, May 22, 1910, sec. 2, p. 2. 
                            Terre Haute
                         Star, May 22, mag. sec., p. 3.
               
                  
                            Dubois county
                        . Extracts from Wilson's history of 
                     Dubois
                                county. Evansville
                   Courier,
                        May 30, 1910, p. 2, c. 1.
               Dudley, W. W. Posthumous document explains "blocks of five" system. 
                            Terre Haute
                         Star, March 16, 1910, p. 1, c. 1. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, March 16, 1910, p. 5, c. 1. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, March 18, 1910, p. 32, c. 3. 
                            Indianapolis
                         Star, March 16, 1910, p. 2, c. 5. 
                            Indianapolis
                         News, March 16, 1910, p. 17. c. 2.
               
                  
                            Evansville
                        . Story of its founder. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, March 27. 1910, p. 25.
               
               — Amateur theatricals in old days in 
                     Evansville. Evansville
                  
                        Courier, March 27, 1910, p. 55, c. 1.
               — Recollections of early days. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, March 27, 1910 p. 55, c. 6.
               — First piano brought to 
                     Evansville. Evansville
                  
                        Courier, March 27, 1910, p. 50, c. 5.
               — First furniture made in city. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, March 27, 1910, p. 50, c. 1.
               — Gay side of 
                            Evansville
                         life in days gone by. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, March 27, 1910, p. 43.
               — First merchant. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, March 27, 1910, p. 26, c. I.
               — How it looked in 1820. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, March 27, 1910, p. 26, c. 1.
               — Man for whom city was named. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, March 27, 1910, p. 27, c. 1.
               — Prominent citizens of. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, March 27, 1910, p. 27.
               — Early churches. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, March 27, 1910, p. 27, c. 4.
               — Mr. Bray's recollections. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, March 27, 1910, p. 27, c. 7.
               — Development of early transportation lines. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, March 27, 1910, p. 29, c. 6.
               — Old school days. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, March 27, 1910, p. 30, c. I.
               — Old reporter's reminiscences. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, March 27, 1910, p. 30, c. 6.
               — Development of transportation on the 
                     Ohio. Evansville
                   Courier,
                        March 27, 1910, p. 31.
               Food. Old ledger of pioneer grocer of 
                            Washington
                        , Ind., shows prices paid in 1844 and 1855. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, May 30, 1910, p. 5, c. 5. 
                            Indianapolis
                         Star, May 29, 1910, p. 7, c. 2.
               Fort Harrison. History of. 
                            Terre Haute
                         Star, May 22, 1910, p. 20.
               
                  
                            Harrison
                        , Benjamin. General Kennedy's recollections of him as president. 
                            Indianapolis
                         Star, May 25, 1910, p. 6, c. 6. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, May 26, 1910, p. 6, c. 4.
               
               — Posthumous statement by T. C. Platt, charging him with breach of faith. 
                            Indianapolis
                         News, March 8, 1910, p. 1, c. 1.
               — Denials of charges. 
                            Indianapolis
                         News, March 9, 1910, p. 2, c. 2; March 10, p. ig, c. 2; March 12, p. 13, c. 1. 
                            Indianapolis
                         Star, March g, p. 1, c. 1; March 10, p. 1, c. 7; March 13, p. 24, c. 1. 
                            Terre Haute
                         Star, March 10, p. 2, c. 1. Mun-cie Star, March 14, 1910, p. 5, c. 1.
               
                  
                            Harrison
                        , Robert Hanson. Letter written to him by 
                            Washington
                         and one concerning him by 
                     Lafayette. Terre Haute
                   Star,
                        March 14, 1910, p. 2, c. I. Ind. Star, March 13, 1910, p. 5, c. 1.
               
                  
                            Harrison
                        , William Henry. Cullop introduces bill in Congress asking for appropriation to save
                        mansion. 
                            Indianapolis
                         Star, May 27, 1910, p. 5, c. 3.
               Indiana—Military history—49th regiment. Extracts from manuscript history
                        by James Keigwin. 
                            Indianapolis
                         News April 23, 1910, p. 3, c. 4.
               — — 157th regiment. Will hold reunion. Sketch of its history. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, May 4, 1910, p. 5, c. 1.
               Indiana legion. Senate committee on pensions praises its work during civil war. 
                            Indianapolis
                         Star, March 2, 1910, p. 6, c. 6.
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                        . Street names in 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Many changed since early days. 
                            Indianapolis
                         News, May 30, 1910, p. 8, c. 3.
               — An old teacher's recollections of 
                            Indianapolis
                         schools. 
                            Indianapolis
                         Star, May 2, 1910, p. 6, c. 7.
               — West 
                            New York
                         street, once the home of notables. 
                            Indianapolis
                         News, March 26, 1910, p. 15, c. 2.
               — Map, showing extension of boundaries in last ten years. 
                            Indianapolis
                         News, March 15, 1910, p. 8, c. 2.
               Johnson, John Wright. Death of a founder of the "underground railroad." 
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, May 17, 1910, p. 2, c. 5.
               Kindergartens. First kindergarten in 
                            U. S.
                         and second in world established at 
                     New
                            Harmony. Indianapolis
                   Star,
                        May 26, 1910, p. 6, c. 4. 
                            South Bend
                         Times, May 27, 1910, p. 8, c. 4.
               Law. Humor and hardships of early days of Indiana justice. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, March 20, 1910, pt. 2, p. 7. 
                            Indianapolis
                         Star, March 20, mag. sec., p. 3.
               McGary, Hugh. Story of founder of 
                     Evansville.
                                Evansville
                   Courier, March 27, 1910, p.
                        25.
               
               McGinnis, George F. Death of and sketch of life. 
                            Indianapolis
                         Star, May 30, 1910, p. 1, c. 3. 
                            Indianapolis
                         News, May 30, p. 1, c. 1. 
                            Lafayette
                         Courier, May 30, 1910, p. 9, c. 4.
               
                  
                            Michigan
                         and Erie canal. Importance of proposed canal. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, April 30, 1910, p. 9, c. 1.
               Minerva. First woman's club founded at 
                     New
                            Harmony. Evansville
                   Courier,
                        May 16, 1910, p. 3, c. 1. 
                            Indianapolis
                         News, May 14, 1910, p. 17, c. 1.
               Mother Theodore. Founder of St. Marys-of-the-Woods may be canonized. 
                            Terre Haute
                         Star, March 15, 1910, p. 6, c. 1.
               
                  
                            Muncie
                        . West side of Walnut street, from Main to the Granville road, as it was fifty years
                        ago. 
                            Muncie
                         Press, March 14, 1910, p. 8, c. 1.
               — Main street as it was fifty years ago. 
                            Muncie
                         Press, April 4, 1910, p. 4, c. 5; April 7, p. 8, c. 3; April 19, p. 6, c. 5; April
                        25, P. 2, c. 3; May 31, P. 4, c. 3.
               
                  
                            New Harmony
                        . First woman's club founded at 
                     New
                                Harmony. Evansville
                  
                        Courier, May 16, 1910, p. 3, c. 1. 
                            Indianapolis
                         News, May 14, 1910, p. 17, c. 1.
               — First kindergarten in 
                            United States
                         and second in world was established at 
                     New
                                Harmony. Indianapolis
                  
                        Star, May 26, 1910, p. 6, c. 4. 
                            South Bend
                         Times, May 27, 1910, p. 8, c. 4.
               Newspapers. Historical sketch of Courier and other 
                            Evansville
                         newspapers. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, March 27, 1910, p. 39.
               — 
                            Evansville
                         Courier celebrates its sixty-fifth anniversary. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, March 27, 1910, p. 57.
               Newton county. Celebrates its fiftieth anniversary. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, April 22, 1910, p. 6, c. 3.
               Owensville. Attempt made by Legislature in 1825 to declare it vacated. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, April 15, 1910, p. 5, c. 4.
               Republican party. 
                            Delaware county
                         Republican election ticket of 46 years ago, owned by 
                            Muncie
                         man. 
                            Muncie
                         Press, March 15, 1910, p. 3, c. 4.
               Revolutionary soldiers. 
                            Delaware county
                         in the American revolution. 
                            Muncie
                         Star, May 3, 1910, p. 4, c. 4; May 4, p. 5, c. 2; May 5, P. 4, c. 4; May 9, p. 4,
                        c. 4; May 10, p. 4, c. 5; May  11, P. 4, c. 3; May 12, P. 4,
                        c. 3; May 13, P. 4, c. 4; May 14, P. 4, c. 4; May 17, P. 4, c. 4; May 21, P. 4, c. 3.
               — D. A. R. decorates grave of John Gullion, only revolutionary soldier buried in
                                
                     Howard county. Indianapolis
                   Star, May 29, 1910, P. 34, c. 7.
               Tecumseh. America's noblest Indian patriot. 
                            Evansville
                         Courier, April 24, 1910, p. 13.
               
                  
                            Terre Haute
                        . History of "Old Curiosity Shop." 
                            Terre Haute
                         Star, May 22, 1910, p. 6, c. 1.
               
                  
                            Vigo county
                        . First county to offer troops for civil war service. Regiments furnished and
                        sketches of their history. 
                            Terre Haute
                         Star, May 29, 1910, p. 21, c. 1.
               
                  
                            Vigo county
                         soldiers' and sailors' monument. Dedication of. 
                            Terre Haute
                         Star, May 26, 1910, p. 1, c. 3.
               — History of. 
                            Terre Haute
                         Star, May 22, 1910, p. 33, c. 1.
               Wallace, David. Once condemned for his belief in railroads and telegraphs. Atlantic cable
                        celebration at which he spoke. 
                            Indianapolis
                         News, May 24, 1910, p. 4, c. 3. 
                            South Bend
                         Tribune, May 27, p. 4, c. 1.
               
                  
                            Wayne
                        , Anthony. Description and story of 
                            Wayne
                         flag, now in possession of Dr. Moore, of 
                     Wabash. Indianapolis
                   Star,
                        May 15, 1910, mag. sec., p. 7.
            
         
         
         
            HISTORY SECTION OF THE STATE TEACHERS' ASSOCIATION.
            The annual meeting of the History Section of the Indiana State Teachers' Association was
                    held at the Claypool Hotel, in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Friday and Saturday, April 29 and 30. Aside from the announced program, the members in
                    attendance had the opportunity of listening to two talks to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     teachers by Professor Frederitf Turner, of the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , president of the American Historical Association.
            Officers chosen for 1910–1911 are: President, Frank A. Bo-gardus, 
                        Terre Haute
                    ; vice-president, Christopher B. Coleman, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; secretary, Miss Harriott Clare Palmer, Franklin; additional members of executive
                    committee, J. O. Batchelder, Marion, and J. IV. Kendall, Bloomington. A committee was also appointed
                    to participate in the arrangements for the American Historical Association meeting at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , December 27–30, consisting of J. A. Woodburn, Harlow Lindley, J. R. H.
                    Moore, J. Walter Dunn and Mabel Ryan.
            The next meeting is to be held at 
                        Indianapolis
                     at approximately the same time of year in 1911 as this meeting.
            Our readers will all be interested to know that Mr. George S. Cottman, who has taken a leading part
                    in historical work in the State, has returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to live. His address is 339 Whittier Place.
         
         
            FUNERAL NOTICE OF A REVOLUTIONARY SOLDIER.
            FUNERAL.
            Yourself and family are respectfully invited to attend the funeral of Mr. Suel Gilbert, from the
                    residence of Mr. William Gilbert, to-day at half past 9 o'clock a. m. The funeral sermon
                         will be preached at the court house at 11 o'clock
                    by the Rev. Robert Irvin.
            The deceased will be interred with military honors. Muncietown, November 9, 1843.
         
         
            REVIEWS OF BOOKS.
            WILSON'S HISTORY OF 
                        DUBOIS COUNTY
                    . [By George R. Wilson. Illustrated. 412 pp. Published by the author at 
                        Jasper
                    , Indiana, 1910. $4.]
            
               
                        Dubois
                     is an Indiana county with a French name and a German population mixed with English and
                    Irish elements. What an interesting field for the historian! Like many another district in the
                    southern part of the State, when organized as a county (1817) in the decade after the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , it took its name from one of the heroes of that action. Captain Toussaint Dubois, of 
                        Vincennes
                    , thus became its patron saint. Its spiritual father, however, and the moulder of its
                    early days, was not a man of the sword, but of the cloth, the Reverend Joseph Kundeck, Vicar General
                    of the Catholic Diocese of 
                        Vincennes
                    . Father Kundeck came to 
                        Vincennes
                     from 
                        Austria
                     as a missionary, and in 1838 was installed at 
                        Jasper
                    . Until his death in 1857 he was a veritable apostle to the German Catholics of southern
                    Indiana. He built up congregations at 
                        Jasper
                    , Ferdinand, Fulda, Troy and 
                        Madison
                    , was instrumental in founding St. Meinrad's, and when the second court-house
                    of 
                        Dubois county
                     proved too much for other contractors, he showed himself approved in secular as well as
                    sacred things by undertaking it and finishing it in the most satisfactory manner to all concerned.
            Mr. Wilson is the first historian of the county. He has been interested in it for years and has
                    examined most of the available sources of information. He covers the ground from "primitive
                    days to 1910," including also a geological and physical description of the county. His work
                    seems to be accurate and complete. Much material for the history of the county joined the mass of
                    such Indiana documents beyond the reach of the historian when 
                    the first court-house at 
                        Jasper
                     burned with all its records in 1839. The book unfortunately has no index, though a full
                    table of contents and alphabetical list of illustrations in part supplies the defect. In view of the
                    relatively large foreign population, one would like to have a better account than Mr. Wilson gives
                    of immigration into the county both from Europe and from other localities in this country. There is
                    in the book, in fact, no systematic treatment of the way in which the population of the county came
                    to be there. With these exceptions, however, it is a most excellent county history. Everyone in 
                        Dubois county
                     ought to get a copy of it, and most Indianians would be interested in looking over it.
            C. B. COLEMAN.
         
         
            A HISTORY OF 
                        SULLIVAN COUNTY
                    . [Thomas J. Wolfe, Editor. Illustrated. 2 v., pp. 384, 425. The Lewis Publishing
                    Co., 
                        Chicago
                    . 1909.]
            The Lewis Publishing Company is now in full swing of effort to exploit Indiana historically. It has
                    reduced to a system the method employed sporadically by others. Each county taken up affords
                    material for two large volumes—volume one a history of the county, and volume two a
                    collection of the sketches of all who subscribe for the work. Both volumes must be bought together
                    and both are sold by subscription before the work is published. The price charged is so high that it
                    not only covers the value of the books but entitles the subscriber also to a biographical sketch
                    among the notables of the county. The work has back of it, therefore, the three-fold force of
                    whatever historical interest there may be in the community, the vanity of those who want to see
                    their life story in print, and the business advantage of being included among the well-known
                    citizens. It follows, of course, that volume one and volume two must be judged entirely separately,
                    though they must be bought together. The Lewis Company, it must be said, usually secures the best
                    qualified man in the county to write volume one. He is given free rein, and, to judge by the samples
                    which have already been published, gives us, if not a history of the county, at least a fairly good
                    lot of sketches of various things in the county. The biographical  sketches which constitute the whole of volume two can not be improved on; they can always be
                    taken as the absolute truth for they are practically written by the subjects of the sketches
                    themselves though retouched by an employe of the publishing company. Volume one is seldom if ever
                    illustrated at all. Volume two is profusely illustrated with portraits of distinguished citizens.
                    From a technical point of view the work is to be criticised for containing no map and no index of
                    illustrations.
            The History of 
                        Sullivan county
                     in volume one is largely the work of Thomas J. Wolfe, of 
                        Sullivan
                    , now more than seventy-eight years of age, whose own memory extends over much of the
                    ground he covers. This county is no exception to the genera; rule in Indiana, for all its early
                    records were destroyed in the burning of the court-house (
                        Sullivan
                    , February 7, 1850.) Some of the imported facts in the county history, therefore, have
                    been lost and accuracy in other matters can not be attained. Mr. Wolfe does not give a history of
                    the county and its inhabitants, but a series of twenty-eight chapters upon various subjects chiefly
                    institutions in the county, e. g., Military Annals, Education, Churches.
         
         
            A HISTORY OF 
                        CLAY COUNTY
                    . [William Travis. Illustrated. 2 v., pp. 627, 537. The Lewis Publishing Company, 
                        Chicago
                    , 1909.]
            This is a Lewis Publishing Company history with the merits and weaknesses described above. Perhaps
                    volume one should be noticed as making even less pretense than usual to being a consecutive history.
                    The last 228 pages are devoted to four hundred detached reminiscences of various affairs, many
                    entirely unimportant. The lack of a detailed index renders this of very little use. Among the
                    chapters of especial interest are those on Indian Occupation and Relics, and the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal and Feeders-Reservoir War.
            Again the reviewer is confronted with the tragedy of Indiana history in the apparently universal
                    destruction of early records All records of 
                        Clay county
                     prior to 1851, except those in the recorder's office, were destroyed by the
                    court-house fire at Bowling Green on November 30, 1851.
         
      
   
