
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 78, Issue 3, pages 193-271. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:78+issue:3+year:1982&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Autobiography of Isaac Reed, Frontier Missionary
            
                    Edited by Donald E. Thompson and Lorna Lutes Sylvester
                    *
                
            "This is Friday 22d January-1829, when I have set down in my study in the Town of
                            
                  Bloomington, Monroe
                Co—& state of Indiana to write out a sketch of
                    my life for the benefit of my children when I shall be removed by death. Of this removal I ought to
                    think daily. I am now 41 years old & am just recovering from a long distressing &
                    dangerous fever A bilious intermittent." Isaac Reed thus began his "Auto
                    Biography." One of the "giants" in the missionary field in
                    early-nineteenth-century Indiana,1 Reed filled his manuscript with much
                    religious introspection and self-analysis, considerable factual detail, and myriad comments
                    concerning what he believed to be the ever-deteriorating state of his health. His account is typical
                    of many diaries and letters written by missionaries on the midwestern frontier in the 1800s.
            The first section of the autobiography covers Reeds life from his birth to 1817. Born in
                            
                  Granville, Washington
                            County, New York
               , on August 27,
                    1787, of "pious," Congregationalist parents, Reed grew up in a "religious
                    settlement" where church attendance was "regular & constant."
                    From the beginning, he confesses, "my heart was after books. I cannot tell when I did not
                    love more to be at school than to be employed on the farm. And usually when away from school, I
                    loved reading more than play." Reed graduated from 
                        Middlebury
                     College in 
                        Vermont
                     in 1812 and was admitted to membership in his home church later the same year. There
                    followed several short teaching stints and at least one attempt at studying law—all
                    abandoned because of 
                  
                     * Donald E. Thompson is archivist, Wabash College, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana. He has recently compiled Indiana Authors and Their
                                Books, 1967–1980 (
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Ind., 1981). Lorna Lutes Sylvester is associate editor, Indiana
                                Magazine of History.
                  
                     1 L.C. Rudolph, Hoosier Zion: The Presbyterians in Early
                                Indiana (
                        New Haven, Conn.
                     , 1963), 51.
               
                     poor health—but always the young man
                    "looked wistfully towards the ministry." Plagued throughout his life by severe
                    pulmonary problems, Reed feared that the frequent public speaking contingent upon a religious career
                    would be too rigorous for him, but by late 1813 he had nevertheless determined upon the ministry as
                    his profession. He resumed his studies and was licensed to preach by the 
                        Fairfield
                     Congregational Association in 
                        Connecticut
                     in May, 1816. During the next year he supplied several congregations in 
                        New York
                     as both temporary and resident pastor and was commissioned to work in the western part
                    of the state for one of the 
                        New York
                     missionary societies. The consequent deterioration of his health made it necessary for
                    him to "endeavor to improve it. This I did," he wrote, "by travelling in
                    the Summer of 1817."
            Reed described the next period in his life, that from 1817 to 1826, in his book, The
                        Christian Traveller, published in 
                        New York
                     in 1828. Included are accounts of his trip from 
                        New England
                     to 
                        Kentucky
                     via 
                        Virginia
                    , his life in and travels around the Midwest, and his journey back to 
                        New York
                    . Reed spent a large part of these nine years in the Hoosier state, seemingly always on
                    the move. Beginning in October, 1818, he served for one year as minister of a church in 
                        New Albany
                    , where he established one of the first Sunday schools in the state. He resigned this
                    position in 1819 to work under commission for the 
                        Connecticut
                     Missionary Society. For the next several years Reed traveled throughout southern
                    Indiana and 
                        Kentucky
                     distributing Bibles, preaching, and founding churches. On December 25, 1819, he married
                    Elinor Young of 
                  Danville, Kentucky
               . In 1822 he purchased an eighty-acre farm in 
                        Owen County
                     near that of Baynard Rush Hall, his brother-in-law and future professor at the state
                    seminary in 
                        Bloomington
                    . Reed planned to reside in his "Cottage of Peace," serve as pastor of
                    a local church for one half his time, and spend the remainder traveling about the state as a
                    representative of an eastern missionary society. Travel he did—2,480 miles in 1824
                    alone—preaching, conducting ordinations and installations, and establishing still more
                    churches. During this period Reed founded at least eight congregations in Indiana, including ones at
                            
                  Bloomington, Crawfordsville, Indianapolis, Greencastle
               , and 
                        Terre Haute
                    . In 1825 he asked to be released as pastor of Bethany Church, near Gosport, in part
                    because he 
                    
                  ISAAC REED THE CHRISTIAN TRAVELER
                  
                  Reproduced from L C Rudolph, Hoosier Zion: The Presbyterians in Early
                            Indiana (
                        New Haven, Conn
                     , 1963). opposite 111
               
                     had not received even one dollar from his congregation for
                    almost two years; in 1826 he decided to return east to live.2
            
            Reed's manuscript autobiographical account resumes with his settlement as a minister in
                    Moriah, Essex County, 
                        New York
                    , in the autumn of 1826. For almost two years Reed continued his pastorate with this
                    congregation and continued his almost incessant travels—sometimes on behalf of one or the
                    other of the missionary societies, sometimes to 
                        New York City
                     to attend religious meetings, and sometimes to restore his health.3
                    On one such journey to the Midwest he decided to return to Indiana to live, and in the fall of 1828
                    he, his wife, and children traveled back to the Hoosier state. The Reeds settled in 
                        Bloomington
                     for several years, then lived in various places in 
                  Kentucky, Ohio
               , and
                    Indiana—including South 
                        Hanover
                    , Putnamville, and 
                        Terre Haute
                    . In 1854 Reed once again returned to 
                        New York
                     where he lived in 
                        Auburn
                     and Waterloo for a time, then yet again west to Olney, 
                        Illinois
                    . While his family remained in Olney, Reed spent some time in 
                        Missouri
                    . Returning to 
                        Illinois
                    , "he suffered a severe hemorrhage of the lungs, and imprudently attempting to
                    fulfil an engagement to preach, was attacked with typhoid pneumonia, and after a brief struggle died
                    Thursday night, January 14, 1858." His wife died May 9, 1869, at the home of her daughter
                    near Putnamville, Indiana.4
            
            Reed was typical of the early Presbyterian minister/missionary in the Hoosier state: he was well
                    educated and a Yankee. A Congregationalist in background, he was ordained by the Transylvania
                    Presbytery in October, 1818, and all his work and all the churches that he founded in Indiana were
                    for the Presbyterian.5 Although not known as a stickler for the rules, he
                    adhered firmly to such Presbyterian tenets as careful preparation for communion; and in the New
                    School-Old School division 
                  
                     2 Isaac Reed, The Christian Traveller, in Five Parts,
                                Including Nine Years, and Eighteen Thousand Miles (
                                New York
                            , 1828), 98, 138–40, 145, 157–59, 212–13, passim; Rudolph, Hoosier Zion, 46, 76–77, 61.
                  
                     3 After experiencing a "hemorage commenced from the
                            lungs" in the spring of 1827, Reed commented: "An absence from such
                            frequent public labors & a journey had now become necessary. In a few days
                            [following June 23, 18271 our fifth child & first son was born & soon after
                            this I set out for Indiana. I travelled on horseback & with the journey my health
                            improved."
                  
                     4 Hanford A. Edson, Contributions to the Early Histoy of
                                the Presbyterian Church in Indiana … (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1898), 115.
                  
                     5 The Presbyterians and Congregationalists had a long history of
                            cooperation. In 1801 the Plan of Union allowed ministers of both denominations to serve
                            congregations interchangeably and authorized joint missionary operations in the West.
                            Rudolph, Hoosier Zion, 37, 45–46.
               
                     in the Presbyterian ranks, he was a New School advocate.6 Reed proved more adept than many of his colleagues at overcoming the stigma
                    that frontiersmen attached to what they considered "uppity," polished, cultured
                    preachers. Though often critical of many aspects of frontier society, he was a true friend of the
                    West and was apparently accepted as such.
            The portion of Reed's previously unpublished autobiography that is reproduced below begins
                    with the family's return to Indiana in the autumn of 1828 and concludes
                    abruptly—as does the manuscript—in 1844.7 Not as
                    graphically descriptive as The Christian Traveller, the autobiography, even when
                    it becomes a mere catalog of the minister's itinerary, is nonetheless revealing. The amount
                    of travel that Reed describes as part of his profession is in itself astounding. To be imagined are
                    the execrable road conditions, primitive housing, and inclement weather.
            Commissions for various eastern missionary societies occasioned many of Reed's journeys.
                    These groups were part of an organized missionary movement that began in the late 1700s and early
                    1800s both in 
                        England
                     and along the eastern coast of the 
                        United States
                    . Formed purportedly to bring the Christian spirit to the
                    "unevangelized" and to convert the "heathen," the societies
                    initiated and provisioned countless missionary efforts on the frontier during the early nineteenth
                    century; their influence on religious development in the Midwest is incalculable.
            Reed, who served as agent for several such eastern groups, probably welcomed his missionary labor as
                    much for its financial benefits as for its religious implications. The missionary societies paid and
                    provided for their ministerial representatives; the small, local churches often did not. In many
                    cases congregations were simply unable to pay; cash was almost nonexistent on the frontier, and even
                    produce was sometimes hard to come by. Then, too, many Westerners believed that clergymen should not
                    expect remuneration for serving God. Reed and 
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 98–99. For a discussion of the New School-Old School
                            split in the Presbyterian church see ibid., 118–36.
                  
                     7 Reed began his autobiography in January, 1829, and during that
                            winter described the events in his life from 1787 to 1817. He resumed his writing in
                            January, 1839, picking up his narrative with the year 1826—The
                                Christian Tmueller having covered the years from 1817 to 1826. He had brought the
                            autobiography up to date by February, 1839, and ceased to write until November, 1845, when,
                            starting with the year 1839, he once again began to relate his activities. He had reached
                            the winter of 1844 before he stopped. Reed thus left an autobiographical account of his
                            entire life except for the years between 1844 and his death in 1858.
               
                     his colleagues soon learned that their congregational salaries
                    would be paid in part in kind and in part not at all.8
            
            In an effort to supplement his income or, actually, to provide a living for his family, Reed
                    established and taught schools in virtually every community in which he resided. The amount of
                    illiteracy that he found in the Hoosier state appalled him. He learned on his very first missionary
                    journeys to ask if settlers could read before he handed out Bibles or religious tracts. Although he
                    considered the common schools in Indiana generally inferior to those in other northern states,9 his own endeavors illustrate the brevity and uncertainty of education in the
                    Midwest during the first half of the nineteenth century. Reed's schools rarely lasted
                    longer than a few months, sometimes only a few weeks. The missionary's poor health and his
                    religious commitments were frequently at fault; in addition, as one historian put it, those
                    "same settlers who did not pay their subscription to the church did not pay their tuition
                    to the school."10
            
            It is ironic that the Isaac Reed of the autobiography is not necessarily the leader in
                    "missionary statesmanship" that appears elsewhere.11 The
                    minister emerges from his memoir as somewhat inept and rather selfish, a man inordinately concerned
                    with the status of his health and his soul. Almost immediately upon his arrival in the Midwest he
                    claimed that the climate was not as salubrious as he had been led to expect,12
                    but he must have thrived on it: he was seventy when he died. In truth, he was often ill, but the
                    typical Hoosier settler of the early 1800s experienced "intermittent fever,"
                    "bilious fever," cholera, "milk sick," and similar complaints
                    more frequently that not. Reed was almost constantly on the move in the course of his
                    ministerial-missionary career; yet, he repeatedly resigned positions to travel to restore his
                    health. Mrs. Reed, though often sick herself, was apparently never accorded the same opportunity.
                    She also obviously reared the couple's children almost alone, as well as teaching to
                    augment the family's income. In fact, Reed rarely comments about his wife and children in
                    his autobiography, a fact that is perhaps as revealing as are his more numerous statements on
                    religion and education.
            
               
                  8 Harvey Newcomb, A Cyclopedia of Missions (
                            New York
                        , 1860), 107; Rudolph, Hoosier Zion, 44–63.
               
                  9 Reed, Christian Traveller, 223, 225; Rudolph, Hoosier Zion, 15.
               
                  10 Rudolph, Hoosier Zion, 161.
               
                  11
                        Ibid., 51.
               
                  12 Reed, Christian Traveller, 43.
            
            
            The minister may well have had little aptitude for practical affairs and been "lacking in
                    shrewdness," as one contemporary claimed,13 but his contributions to
                    the establishment and growth of Presbyterianism in the Middle West cannot be denied or denigrated.
                    He was a devout, tireless advocate of the Christian faith. Just the quantity of work that he did is
                    impressive; both The Christian Traveller and his other writings bear out one
                    understated assessment that "he certainly was active."14
                    Obviously, then, Reed was neither the "queer speciman of theology"15 nor the "
                        St. Paul
                     of this western country"16 that he has been variously
                    described. More probably he was both. In either case his autobiography provides an informative
                    glimpse of a missionary's life on the early-nineteenth-century Indiana frontier.
            
               
                  13 Edson, Contributions to the Early History of the
                            Presbyterian Church in Indiana, 116.
               
                  14 Rudolph, Hoosier Zion, 114.
               
                  15 Julia Merrill Moores, "Early Times in 
                            Indianapolis
                        ," Indiana Magazine of History, VIII (September, 1912),
                        136.
               
                  16 James A. Woodburn, "Pioneer Presbyterianism," ibid., XXII (December, 1926), 339.
            
            
            Auto Biography1
            
            [In 1828 Isaac Reed, then residing in 
                        New York
                    , decided to return to Indiana to live. Accordingly, in August he and his family
                    traveled by wagon to 
                  Troy, New York
               , thence via the Erie Canal to Buffalo and by
                    steamboat to 
                  Cleveland, Ohio
               . They then went overland, by wagon again, to 
                        Dayton
                    .] And thence to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . And thence to 
                        Bloomington
                     in 
                        Monroe
                     Co—where Mrs Reeds relatives then resided.2 Sarah L.
                    Reed our little daughtel.3 had a bilious fever before we reached 
                        Indianapolis
                     where it seemed checked, but was renewed on our way to 
                        Bloomington
                     & was very bad there. I had still intended to settle in 
                        Indianapolis
                     & started to go there by way of my old church in Owan with whom I held a
                    sacramental meeting.4 And whilst attending that I was seised with bilious fever
                    I made out to return to 
                        Bloomington
                     next day & was immediately confined. The fever lasted for many days, &
                    after three months I was imperfectly restored Mrs Reed became 
                  
                     1 The editors of the portion of Isaac Reeds autobiography that is
                            reproduced below have attempted to transcribe the missionary's rather ornate script
                            as precisely as possible. Although Reed's punctuation, spelling, and syntax are
                            relatively good, he indiscriminately used dashes, periods, or no punctuation at all to
                            conclude sentences; the editors have done the same, double-spacing where necessary to
                            facilitate reading. Arbitrary choices were sometimes unavoidable when deciding among dashes,
                            commas, periods, or flourishes. If Reed's intent could not be determined, the rules
                            of modern grammar were followed. Bracketed question marks indicate the editors'
                            uncertainty as to the word or phrase transcribed; a few explanatory phrases have also been
                            inserted in brackets.
                  
                     2 Mrs. Elinor Reed's older sister was married to Baynard Rush
                            Hall, the first professor and for three years the only instructor at the state
                            seminau—- which was to become Indiana University—in 
                                Bloomington
                            . Isaac Reed, The Christian Traveller, in Five Parts, Including
                                Nine Years, and Eighteen Thousand Miles (
                                New York
                            , 1828), 110–11, 120–21; Isaac Reed, Youth's Book, in Four Parts (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1840), 84–85; L.C. Rudolph, Hoosier Zion: The
                                Presbyterians in Early Indiana (
                        New
                                Haven, Conn.
                     , 1963),
                            178–79.
                  
                     3 In the introduction to his autobiography, written in January, 1829,
                            Reed indicates that he has five living children—four daughters and a son. In the
                            manuscript itself he mentions Martha Doughty, the eldest, who was born in 1821 and died in
                            1839; Sarah L.; Chalmers, whom he calls his "first" son and who was
                            probably born in June, 1827; and "our youngest child," possibly born in
                            June, 1829 or 1830. In letters to her parents from 
                        Bedford, Pennsylvania
                     , where she was attending school, Martha refers, in
                            addition, to Ann Reed Williams, probably the second born; to Elinor, sometimes called Ellen;
                            and to Whitefield. Reed, Youth's Book, 103, 111, passim. It is assumed that Elinor is the fourth daughter of whom Reed wrote and
                            that Whitefield was the sixth child and second son.
                  
                     4 Reed refers to Bethany Church, near Gosport, in 
                                Owen County
                            . He had served as pastor of the congregation there from 1822 to 1825. Reed, Christian Traveller, 140, 157–58.
               
                     confined with fever a few days after myself & though in
                    the same house for a considerable time, we could not see each other. Our physician was Dr Maxwell of
                        Blo~mington.5 His attentions were very assiduous. Mrs Reed did not recover
                    in time to go to 
                        Indianapolis
                     this fall & I at length concluded to buy at 
                        Bloomington
                    —which I did during the winter—The Year 1829 my ministerial labors
                    were chiefly taken up in 
                        Green Monroe
                     & 
                        Owen
                     counties. In the summer of this year I constituted one church. It was in the north part
                    of 
                        Putnam
                     Co. & named "Poplar-Spring." It has since become a numerous
                    & very important congregation.6 In the spring of this year I was at the
                    session of the 
                        Wabash
                     Presbytery,7 which was held at Craw-fordsville & was at the
                    fall session held at 
                        Shiloh
                     church in Parke Co. At that time I baptised at his own house at 
                        Rockville
                     two twin children for the Rev S. McNutt, & assisted in his installation over
                    the 
                        Rockville
                     Church.8 At this meeting of 
                  
                     5 Born in 
                                Kentucky
                             in 1786, David H. Maxwell moved to Indiana in 1810 and to 
                                Bloomington
                             in 1819. He had an excellent reputation as a physician and surgeon and an
                            extended medical practice. He was a member of Indiana's first constitutional
                            convention in 1816 and a member of both houses of the state legislature at various times.
                            Dedicated to the cause of higher education in Indiana, Maxwell was influential in getting
                            the state seminary located at 
                                Bloomington
                            , was the first president of the school's board of trustees, and served
                            in that capacity or as a member of the board for much of the rest of his life. He died in
                            1854. James A. Woodburn, History of Indiana University,
                            1820–1902 (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1940), 212–14. In 1819 Reed had organized the first Presbyterian
                            church in 
                                Bloomington
                             in Maxwell's cabin. Rudolph, Hoosier Zion, 178. See
                            also Reed, Christian Traveller, 93, 120.
                  
                     6 According to one county history the first Presbyterian church in 
                                Putnam County
                             was organized by Reed in August, 1825. Although it flourished for a time,
                            interest waned, and the meetings eventually ceased altogether. This period of Presbyterian
                            inaction continued until the fall of 1832. Jesse W. Weik, Weik's
                                History of 
                                    Putnam County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1910), 108, 112. Since Reed was writing in 1839 about events that had happened
                            earlier, it is possible that he erred as to the date; it is equally as possible that the
                            county history is incorrect. No attempt has been made to check the locations, names, and
                            dates of all churches founded by Reed and mentioned in his autobiography.
                  
                     7 The presbytery is the fundamental unit of Presbyterian government,
                            the real seat of authority. All elders and the minister of one local church comprise the
                            "session" of that church. Elected elders from each session and all
                            ministers in an area form the presbytery, a kind of corporate bishop. All presbyteries in a
                            geographical area form the synod. The General Assembly, the highest body of the Presbyterian
                            church, is composed of elected commissioners from the presbyteries. Rudolph, Hoosier Zion, 99–100.
                  
                     8
                            
                                Shiloh
                             Presbyterian Church was organized near 
                                Rockville
                             in 
                                Parke County
                             in the fall of 1822. Reed was among several ministers who preached at the
                            church at various times prior to 1828. In that year the Reverend Samuel H. McNutt, a young
                            minister from 
                                Virginia
                            , came as the stated supply to the congregation. McNutt continued as a
                            Presbyterian minister in 
                                Parke County
                             until 1846. J.H. Beadle, 1880 History of 
                                    Parke County
                                , Indiana … (
                                Chicago
                            , 1880), 91–92.
               
                    
                    
                  FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
                            ON
                            THE CIRCLE, INDIANAPOLIS, c. 1840 A
                                CHRISTIAN SCHRADER DRAWING
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
               
                    
                    
                  SECOND PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH
                            ON
                            THE CIRCLE, INDIANAPOLIS, c. 1840 A
                                CHRISTIAN SCHRADER DRAWING
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
               
                     Presbytery it was agreed to petition Synod to form
                    Craw-fordsville Presbytery. The meeting of the Indiana Synod was held in Bond Co. 
                        Ill.
                     & I did not attend it. In December I was at a convention at 
                        Indianapolis
                     when the Indiana State Temperance Society was formed,9 In this
                    formation I took an active part, as also a meeting of the State Bible Society & some others.
                    The summer of 1830 I still labored in Green Co & the places round about as a missionary I
                    also taught a small school of girls at 
                        Bloomington
                     four days in a week, beginning with Tuesday & closing with Friday, This was
                    because my preaching places were so far off that I must have Monday to return. This year also I
                    spent 3 or 4 months in an Agency for the American Bible Society & there were sent to me a
                    number of boxes of Bibles, amounting to many hundred books. These I either distributed to the
                    destitute, sold or committed to others to sell & distribute.10 On my way
                    to Presbytery in Sept. I was taken with fever & had to return. From this fever I recovered
                    so as to be at the Synod. in Oct. then held in 
                        Madison
                    —When it was agreed that the 
                        Illinois
                     Synod should be formed from the Indiana synod—Hitherto since the formation
                    of the Indiana Synod from the 
                        Ky.
                     There had been only one Synod in the three States of Indiana 
                        Illinois
                     & 
                        Missouri
                    
               11—From Synod—I returned by hasty travelling
                    so as to be at 
                        Bloomington
                     at the first commencement exhibition of the State College12
            
            My travelling companion was the Rev Theron Baldwin of 
                        Ill.
                     who gave me a minute account of the commencement & 
                  
                     9 The Indiana Temperance Society was organized in 
                                Indianapolis
                             in December, 1829. Subordinate societies existed throughout the state.
                            Presbyterians strongly supported the temperance movement and were frequently instrumental in
                            forming organizations to promote temperance reform. John D. Barnhart and Donald F. Carmony,
                                Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), 11, 138–39; Rudolph, Hoosier Zion,
                            53–54.
                  
                     10 The American Bible Society was a nonprofit organization founded in
                            1816 to encourage the reading and circulation of the Bible throughout the world. Auxiliary
                            societies existed in many states, including Indiana. Many Presbyterians, Reed among them,
                            worked indefatigably to help the society achieve its goal of supplying the entire reading
                            population of the world with the Bible. The Bibles were supplied to anyone, of whatever
                            denomination, at cost, and to those who could not pay, they were given free. Rudolph, Hoosier Zion, 138; Logan Esarey, A History of Indiana
                                … (1915, 1917; reprint, 2 vols. in 1, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1970), I, 286–87.
                  
                     11 The Indiana Synod of the Presbyterian church was organized at 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, in 1826. The 
                                Illinois
                             Synod was formed in 1831 and the 
                                Missouri
                             Synod in 1832. Hanford A. Edson, Contributions to the Early
                                History of the Presbyterian Church in Indiana … (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1898), 218, 219; William Warren Sweet, Religion on the American
                                Frontier. Volume II, The Presbyterians, 1783–1840
                                … (
                                New York
                            , 1936), 678.
                  
                     12 Reed is apparently correct in his statement that the first
                            commencement at Indiana College was held in 1830. See "Register of Graduates,
                            1830–1916," Indiana University Bulletin, XV (December,
                            1917).
               
                     progress of 
                        Illinois
                     College in the founding of which he had a conspicuous part.13 It
                    was at this time that Andrew Wylie D.D. Pres. at the Indiana State College made his Inaugural
                        Address.14 Soon after the meeting of Synod I received an appointment from
                    the Board of Missions of the Gen. Assembly of the Presbyterian church to perform a travelling agency
                    for them of three months in the bounds of 
                        Wabash
                     Presbytery. (The name was now changed to 
                        Vincennes
                     Presbytery). This agency was renewed & extended to all the Presbyteries of the
                    State & even including those of 
                        Illinois
                     & in this service I spent a whole year From Nov 1830 to Nov 1831. In this
                    agency I was employed in forming missionary districts, raising subscriptions to be appropriated to
                    sustaining a missionary in the district, & in forming churches and so great was my success
                    in the latter that in this single year I constituted six new Presbyterian churches vis [?I, 
                        Bedford
                     Ch in Lawrence Co. Oak Ridge Ch in Jackson Co. 
                        Palestine
                     Ch in Crawford Co. 
                        Ill.
                     Stoney-Creek Ch in 
                        Delaware
                     Co., Brownstown Church in Jackson Co. & 
                        Fall Creek
                     in 
                        Madison
                     Co. Some of these are very distant from each other & far distant from my
                    residence at 
                        Bloomington
                    . To prepare for their formation & to organise & cherish them required
                    much time & much travel & many labors. But it was a service which I loved, a
                    dispensation of it was committed to me & of it I do not repent. In this summer I saw for the
                    first a Presbyterian Camp 
                  
                     13
                            
                                Illinois
                             College, an educational venture of the Presbyterians and Con-gregationalists,
                            opened in January, 1830. The institution was to be the crowning part of the dream of the
                            so-called "Yale band," a group of men from Yale Theological Seminary, who
                            hoped—through educational and religious endeavors—to raise the West
                            out of intellectual darkness. 
                        Jacksonville,
                                    Illinois
                     , where Presbyterian
                            missionary John M. Ellis was already attempting to found a college, was selected as the
                            location for the enterprise. The college experienced all the vicissitudes of
                            early-nineteenth-century educational institutions—particularly financial
                            problems—but, although it never met the larger ideals of its founders, it
                            survived. Ministerlmissionary Theron Baldwin was one of the men who was instrumental in
                            establishing the college. He, at various times during his career, edited the Common School Advocate, helped to found and served as principal of 
                                Monticello
                             Female Seminary in 
                                Illinois
                            , and was secretary and financial agent for the Society for Promoting Collegiate
                            and Theological Education in the West. This society was instrumental in keeping several
                            midwestern colleges—including 
                                Illinois
                             College and Wabash College in Indiana—financially afloat. Theodore
                            C. Pease, The Frontier State, 1818–1848 (
                        Springfield, Ill.
                     , 1918), 437–38; George W. Smith, History
                                of 
                                    Illinois
                                 and Her People (6 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1927), II, 303–306; Robert P. Howard, 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                : A History of the 
                                    Prairie
                                 State (Grand Rapids, Mich., 1972), 177–78.
                  
                     14 Andrew Wylie came to 
                                Bloomington
                             as the first president of Indiana College in the fall of 1829 and continued in
                            that capacity until 1851. He delivered his inaugural address on October 29, 1829. Thomas D.
                            Clark, Indiana University: Midwestern Pioneer. Volume I, The
                                Early Years (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1970). 41. Reed seems to be somewhat confused as to dates.
               
                     meeting. It was held near 
                        Salem
                    
               15—This year our Spring Presbytery was held on Scoeffold
                    Prarie in Green Co & the fall session was held in the New Hope Church in Vigo Co Both of
                    these I attended and the Synod in Oct held at 
                        Bloomington
                    . At this meeting our youngest child born the previous June was baptised by Rev J F.
                        Crowe16 The next year 1831, & 1832, I labored in the 
                        Bedford
                     & Oak Ridge churches as their stated supply, in the appointment of the Board of
                    Missions of the Gen Assembly of the Pres Church—This was a year of very great scarcity of
                    provisions—(1832.) I carried a considerable portion of my bread stuffs from Oak Ridge,
                    over 30 miles & from Lawrence Co. over 20—It was a spring of more difficulties to
                    procure seed corn, which would grow than I have ever known in my whole life. People went for it 50
                    miles, some 100 miles & some 150 miles & planted three or four miles [times] as much
                    as usual in a hill. I this year learned what I had before supposed would never be, that in these
                    western states there would be a famine of corn—This season is memorable also from the
                    quarrels carried on among the Faculty of the State College at 
                        Bloomington
                     In the Autumn the Prof. of language removed from it to 
                        Bedford
                        Penn.
                     & the Prof. of Mathematics (J.H. Harvey was dismissed & immediately
                    elected at S. Hanover.17
            
            
               
                  15 Religious camp meetings on the frontier were usually held in the open
                        air or in tents and sometimes lasted several days. Generally conducted by the more evangelistic
                        denominations, such as the Methodists or Baptists, these meetings were frequently led by lay
                        ministers; and the preaching and exhortations could become quite emotional. Presbyterians, who
                        believed in a formally trained ministry and a more disciplined service, resisted such meetings
                        and rarely participated in them. For a discussion of the conflicts and disagreements between the
                        Presbyterians and other denominations on the frontier see Rudolph, Hoosier
                        Zion, 20–36.
               
                  16 This child was probably the Whitefield referred to in Martha's
                        letters to her parents. In 1823 Reed installed the Reverend John Finley Crowe as pastor of the
                        Presbyterian church at 
                            Hanover
                        , Indiana. In 1826 the 
                            Salem
                         Presbytery adopted Crowe's boarding school as a classical preparatory
                        school, and this ancestor of 
                            Hanover
                         College opened its doors in January, 1827. In 1829 
                            Hanover
                         Academy—and in 1833 
                            Hanover
                         College—was chartered by the state. Crowe served on the
                        institution's faculty or administrative staff for most of the rest of his life. He died
                        in 1860. A.Y. Moore, History of 
                                Hanover
                             College (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1900), 20, 38–40, 46. Crowe had been active as a missionary in Indiana
                        for many years. In 1819 he established the Presbyterian church at Corydon, the state capital.
                        Edson, Contributions to the Early History of the Presbyterian Church in
                        Indiana, 157–61.
               
                  17 Personality conflicts and disagreement over teaching methods erupted
                        among the faculty at Indiana College shortly after Wylie's inauguration as president of
                        the institution. The resulting quarrels almost destroyed the school. Baynard R. Hall, professor
                        of languages, and John H. Harney, professor of mathematics, left the college in 1832. Hall moved
                        to 
                     Bedford, Pennsylvania
                  , where he founded 
                            Bedford
                         Academy, which Martha Reed attended for several
            
            
            
               ANDREW WYLIE
               
               DAVID H. MAXWELL
               
               Reproduced from Forest M. Hall, Historic Treasures … (
                            Bloomington
                        . 1922). 63.
            
            
               BAYNARD RUSH HALL
               
               JOHN FINLEY CROWE
               
               Reproduced from L C Rudolph. Hoosier Zion The Presbyterians in Early Indiana
                                (
                     New Haven, Conn
                  , 1963). following 110
            
            
            The year 1833 I had a book agency for a publisher in 
                        Cincinnati
                     & labored as a missionary to the same churches as the previous year either in
                    1832 or that year I formed the "Driftwood Church" in Jackson Co. I[n] 1834 I
                    erected a new house & commenced a school in it. I also constituted a new church in 
                        Spencer
                     Owan Co. named 
                        Spencer
                     church This I supplied half the time. Our Presbytery was held this fall in 
                        Terre Haute
                     & our Synod was held in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     I attended both & took my wife to the latter. They were now just starting
                    there, the plan of the Wabash College.18 The following Winter I taught at home
                    & supplied at 
                        Spencer
                     16 miles This winter unsolicited & unexpected I received the overture thro
                    their Sec. Rev J. F. Crowe of an agency for the Trustees of 
                        Hanover
                     College—to which overture I at length consented & closed my school
                    & left off attending my 
                        Spencer
                     church & went out in their agency,19 A course of action
                    which in its consequences, appears to me, in the review to have been unfavorable &
                    subsequently disastrous. I commenced this agency about the 1st of May & was sent into 
                        Kentucky
                     travelled as far South as Bowling Green in 
                        Warren
                     Co. & at 
                        Greensburg
                     in Green Co. I found my old friend Rev John Howe who had presided in the Presbytery at
                    my ordination in Mercer Co. 
                  years; Harney became professor of mathematics and astronomy at 
                                Hanover
                             Academy. Woodburn, History of Indiana University,
                            78–97; Clark, Indiana Uniuersity, 43–45, Moore, History of 
                                    Hanover
                                 College, 45–46.
                  
                     18 Wabash College, founded under Presbyterian—tinged with
                            Congregationalist—influence, opened in 1833 in 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana. The idea of the college originated with five home missionaries who,
                            having had little success in securing educated ministers from the East for midwestern
                            churches, decided to raise their own. The college's first instructor was easterner
                            Caleb Mills, later to be influential in implementing Indiana's public school
                            system. Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, I, 273, 11, 110; Edson, Contributions to the Early History of the Presbyterian Church in Indiana,
                            250–53; James A. Woodburn, "Pioneer Presbyterianism," Indiana Magazine of History, XXII (December, 1926), 367–68.
                  
                     19 During his lifetime Crowe served 
                                Hanover
                             College in many capacities— including that of financial agent.
                            During the 1830s 
                                Hanover
                             experimented with the manual-labor system of financing the school and assisting
                            students to pay their college expenses. For approximately two hours a day students worked at
                            farming, carpentering, wood-chopping, and related activities in return for credit on tuition
                            and board. Products of their labor were sold to aid the college. When it became difficult to
                            find enough varied jobs for the number of boys that were enrolled, the school purchased a
                            press and entered the printing business. Among other endeavors a religious newspaper, the
                                Western Presbyterian, was published, and agents were placed in the
                            field to distribute it and presumably to secure subscriptions. The printing venture proved
                            financially disastrous, and the equipment, bindery, and newspaper were sold. Moore, History of 
                                    Hanover
                                 College, 44–52, passim. Apparently Reed
                            served as one of the agents for the Western Presbyterian. See below p.
                            210.
               
                     1818.20 Spent a night with him &
                    the next day among his people where I also preached at night Among the hearers was Judge Monroe
                    & most of the lawyers attendeant upon this Court This was court week. In this tour I
                    revisited 
                        Danville
                     where I spent a Sabbath & became acquainted with Pres Young of Centre
                        College21—I also visited 
                        Lancaster
                     & Paint Lick scenes & places of my early acquaintance in 
                        Ky.
                     And thence also my little church of White-Oak in the forks of
                    Ducks & Ky river.22 And thence
                    to Nicholasville & by 
                        Lexington
                     & 
                        Frankfort
                     I returned. I came into 
                        Madison
                     just after the alarm from cholera in 1835. Many of the inhabitants had fled.23 I remained for the night & attended two religious meetings the next
                    day & then went out to S. Hanover. There I remained over Sabbath & then returned
                    home. I had been absent near two months.
            My next tour was up the Wabash river. Went by way of
                    
                  Greencastle, Rockville, Crawfordsville
               
                    & 
                  Lafayette, Delphi
                & 
                        Frankfort
                    , & returned by 
                        Crawfordsville
                     & 
                        Greencastle
                    
            
            Made a third tour in August & part of Sept in 
                        Greene
                        Knox
                     & 
                        Vigo
                     Counties & passed over into 
                        Illinois
                    —Was at 
                        Palestine
                    , Darwin, & 
                        Paris
                    . This was in the sickly season & all 
                  
                     20 Reed was ordained by Transylvania Presbytery in October, 1818, at
                            the New Providence church in Mercer County, 
                                Kentucky
                            . The Reverend John Howe, long-time missionary in 
                                Kentucky
                            , was the presiding bishop at the very moving ceremony, which Reed describes in
                                The Christian Tmveller, 80–83. See also Rudolph, Hoosier Zion, 108–109.
                  
                     21 Transylvania Academy was opened in 
                        Danville, Kentucky
                     , in 1783, under a charter from the 
                                Virginia
                             legislature; five years later the academy was moved to 
                                Lexington
                            . In 1794 the Presbyterians, who had been instrumental in establishing the
                            school, lost control of the board of trustees, withdrew, and started 
                                Kentucky
                             Academy at Pisgah, near 
                                Lexington
                            . In 1798 these two schools merged—under Presbyterian
                            control—and the institution was named Transylvania University. Another split
                            occurred in 1819; the Presbyterians seceded and established Centre College of 
                                Kentucky
                             at 
                                Danville
                            . Centre was a state-chartered institution until 1830 when it became
                            church-sponsored. Also in 1830 Dr. John C. Young was installed as president, a position he
                            held until his death twenty-seven years later. One Hundredth Commencement and
                                Inauguration of the Fifteenth President of Centre College, 1824–1923
                                    (
                        Danville, Ky.
                     , 1923), 26–29. Reed had formerly lived
                            near Centre College in 
                                Danville
                            . His daughter Martha was born there in 1821. Reed, Youth's Book, 83.
                  
                     22 White Oak Church was located in the lower part of Garrard
                                County, 
                                Kentucky
                            , at the forks of the Dick's and
                                Kentucky rivers. Reed had supplied the church on an irregular basis
                            from 1819 to 1822. Reed, Christian Traveller, 41, 47, 59, 99, 101,
                            116–17.
                  
                     23 A nationwide cholera epidemic swept the 
                                United States
                             in 1832, causing thousands of deaths. Every summer for several years thereafter
                            the disease decimated various midwestem communities. The cholera revisited 
                                Madison
                             in 1835. By June 24 of that year thirty-two deaths had been reported, fifteen
                            in one day alone. R. Carlyle Buley, The Old Northwest: Pioneer Period,
                                1815–1840 (2 vols., 
                                Bloomington
                            , 1951), I, 251–53.
               
                     these places were then sickly. The last Sabbath of this tour on
                    my way home, I spent, with my little church at 
                        Spencer
                     I had now the symptons of fever & was in a few days laid up with intermittent
                    fever—About this time I was applied to, to sell my place House & five acres. This
                    sale I made price $1000, A very unfortunate sale though paid according to contract And I
                    removed to S. Hanover. Here I soon had another fever Bilious—& several weeks
                    confinement—as soon as I was able to ride which was about the last of Nov. went again
                    into 
                        Ky
                     to my agency— travelled across 
                  Shelby, Anderson
                and 
                        Woodford
                     counties. Went to 
                        Paris
                    —Millersburg, 
                        Carlisle
                    , Winchester & returned by 
                        Lexington
                     & 
                        Frankfort
                    . Tho' I collected some subscriptions & procured some additional funds
                    my success was not good. It did not satisfy myself—on Christmas day I was in the church
                    called "Six mile" Henry Co. 
                        Ky.
                    —
            The winter of 1836 was now passing I went into 
                        Ohio
                     Spent a few days in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , was one day very ill with sick headache at the house of Jno Baker on Walnut
                        Hill near the city. I then travelled up the Miami, was at 
                  Lebanon, Franklin, Dayton, Springfield,
                            Urbana
               , At 
                        Urbana
                     I spent the Sabbath & attended a sacramental communion with the Presbyterian
                    Church. The next Sabbath I preached three times, twice to the Presbyterians, & once to the
                    Methodists at 
                        Middletown
                    , upon the canal. Returned by way of 
                        Hamilton
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . I had endeavored to be there at the temperance meeting to be held on the 26th of Feb.
                    I was there but not a little disappointed to see so few present & the cause seem so low. On
                    my way home I crossed a part of 
                        Ky.
                     & passed a Sabbath at 
                        Williamsport
                     in Galletin County When I reached S. Hanover my youngest child,
                    Chalmers was just recovering from a severe fever in which he had been at the point of death. The
                    Trustees of the college had also sold out their paper & press & my agency was at an
                    end. Now what was I to do? I had bought a house and lot at S.H. But I had no business or employment
                    there now, nor could I get any near there by which I could support my family—I spent
                    several weeks in suspense & looking about. In this time I went to 
                        Shelbyville
                     Ind. to Oxford O. to a little congregation near Wilmington in 
                        Dearborn
                     Co. Afterwards I went to 
                        Salem
                     and Corydon & then crossed into 
                        Ky.
                     by way of 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Louisville
                    . Went on to 
                        Shelbyville
                     [
                        Kentucky
                    ] & undertook to distribute the New Testament over a 1/4 of the county, among
                    the children so as to supply everyone younger than 15 years who could read. In this service I had a
                    dollar a day And in 
                        Shelby
                     Co. about two miles north East of Shel  byville I
                    engaged a school & soon removed my family there where we spent the summer. But the patronage
                    not being sufficient in the Fall I removed into 
                        Shelbyville
                     & opened a school where we taught one session of five months & then
                    returned to S. Hanover. In 
                        Shelbyville
                     we had a good school & made money—but our expenses were great
                    & it took it all. I came away leaving a debt of $60. It was here that Mrs Reed
                    & our children attended Mr Bronson's course of lectures on Elocution.24 Mrs R— became a proficient in that art & obtained Bronson's
                    certificate, that she understands the system & can teach it. Returning from 
                        Ky.
                     we travelled on horseback to 
                        Louisville
                     & by steamboat from 
                        Louisville
                     to S. Hanover. We again took possession of our house. But in a few days I travelled
                    northwards, collected $100. near 
                        Terre Haute
                     & purchased with it two forty acre tracts of wild land lying in the north part
                    of Owen Co. This entry I made at the Land Office at Craw-fordsville. I went up to 
                        Lafayette
                     to see if it was a favorable place for one to get a school & settle. But it was
                    so difficult to get a house & rent was so very high that I decided not to go there,
                    & in the same tour I decided to locate my family & commence a school at Putnamville
                    on the National road in 
                        Putnam
                     Co. I then returned by way of 
                        Spencer
                     & 
                        Bloomington
                     attended the spring meeting of 
                        Madison
                     Presbytery—went over to 
                        Shelbyville
                        Ky
                    —-& returned. At this time bought my cow & Durham calf which
                    I had before we left there, And removed about the last of April to Putnamville. Commenced school the
                    8th of May 1837. Here we were destined to meet another disappointment. I had confided entirely in
                    the representation & judgment of 3 or 4 men & one or two women who reside there for
                    the sufficiency of the school. But when there & ready to commence behold! numbers would not
                    send to me. The state of the thing was a considerable portion of the inhabitants are of the
                    Methodist Soc. & it appeared they were unwilling to encourage a presbyterian minister. I
                    therefore had a small school, much too small to depend upon & at length gave it up. I went
                    out west a little way into 
                        Illinois
                    —was at 
                        Paris
                     & the trustees of the 
                        Paris
                     Seminary, which had a charter & nothing else elected me the Prest of the
                        Seminary25—Returned to 
                  
                     24 The art of oratorical or public speaking in an overly expressive or
                            embellished style was extremely popular during the nineteenth century. Termed
                            "elocution," it was considered a desired
                            "accomplishment," particularly for young ladies.
                  
                     25 Reed reports in Youth's Book that he had
                            founded and was for a few years the president of Pans Seminary, a school for both males and
                            females, in 
                        Paris, Illinois
                     . Mrs. Reed was assistant teacher. Reed, Youth's Book, 87.
               
                     Putnamville—attended the 
                        Crawfordsville
                     Presbytery at 
                        Danville
                     Hendricks Co. Ind. & then travelled west to 
                        Springfield
                        Ill.
                     where I attended the 
                        Illinois
                     Synod a body of 50 ministers. On the first Monday of Nov I commenced my school at 
                        Paris
                    . There was no building appropriate. At first I kept in a log house in one room. I then
                    rented a large Brick which had a large store room—& moved the school in it,
                    & there it was continued for two sessions. In Jan. 1838 moved my family from Putnamville. In
                    the spring we had a very interesting exhibition. The summer session also the school was prosperous.
                    But the patronage was in a measure withdrawn from the next session & after keeping 10 weeks
                    I determined to give it up, & immediately moved into 
                        Terre Haute
                     and commenced keeping boarding house—Having got a little underway at that, I
                    again proposed to take scholars & opened a school & to this end I have rented the
                    east room of the basement story of the meeting house Where I am now writing in this
                    Narrative—this 13th of Feb 1839.
            From the above date there has been a suspension of any writing of the narrative for 6 1/2
                    years—
            Residing & teaching at Mays Lick Village Mason Co. 
                        Ky.
                     I this 2d day of Nov 1845 resume the narrative. My plan of keeping boarders was
                    unproductive & turned out so poorly, I had to forsake it & become wholly dependent
                    upon the product of schools—This was continued in the same place the basement of the
                    church till about midsummer when it was relinquished & I returned again to 
                        Paris
                     But whilst resident in 
                        Terre Haute
                     I experienced one of the most amictive events of my life in which trials &
                    amictions have been so frequent & prevalent. It was the delirium for a time of our first
                    born child! our grown up educated & accomplished daughter Martha. Her death followed on the
                    8th of April. Her mortal remains were laid down in the grave—in the burial ground where
                    they still repose. This death almost broke her mothers heart—& to me it weakened
                    much my attachment to life—We were consoled in the hope that to her it was
                    gain—That whilst the body rests in the grave the spirit is with the Saviour whom she had
                    learned to love & whom she had confessed before men.
            This year 1839 I prepared the Youths Book in which is contained a sketch of her character sickness
                    & death26—I 
                  
                     26 Reed's Youth's Book, published
                            in 1840, contained sermons, a number of them funeral sermons; lectures to youth; and
                            Martha's letters to her parents while she was attending 
                                Bedford
                             Academy. The work was dedicated "To the Youth of Indiana and 
                                Illinois
                             in the hope of its usefulness. …"
               
                     thought now my attachment to earth was broken & I
                    should live to God & as a minister I would be devoted to his service without teaching
                    school—Mrs R commenced a school in 
                        Paris
                     & I preached in places round about, but it was in places where salary would not
                    be raised. The Board of Missions [of the Presbyterian General Assembly?] gave me an appointment for
                    a year for Marshall, seat of Justice—Clarke Co then new & Society in its
                    elements—morals very low—Here I spent two Sabbaths in a month, &
                    though a church was not constituted yet the way was made ready & a church was formed the
                    next year
            In the spring of 1839 finding that I could not sustain myself & family from my receipts for
                    ministerial labor I renewed school teaching in 
                        Paris
                    —& late in august closed there & removed to L— on
                    the national road 12 miles west of 
                        Terre Haute
                    . But the same fall left there & settled again in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , where & in its vicinity I continued teaching school for almost three
                    years—In Sept 1842 I removed from
                    T_____
                    H____ to 
                        Hanover
                     Jefferson Co, upon the Ohio river. The following winter I spent in
                    a small private school in 
                        Madison
                    , but as I had not enough patronage to support me I relinquished it. And travelled most
                    of the remainder of the year, partly in Ky—partly in Ind. quite extensively in 
                        Ohio
                    —was at several Presbyteries in 
                  Chilicothe, Wooster
               , & 
                        Richland
                    —Attended the Synod in 
                        Zanesville
                    —Went over to Lake Erie & across 
                        N.Y.
                     to Lake Champlain. On the 16th of July upon the top of a pine shaded hill by the
                    junction Locks I looked over the city of 
                        Troy
                    . The villages of 
                  West Troy, Waterford
                Lansinburgh & the surrounding country
                    of hills & plain. Two days after travelled on Lake Champlain upon the steamer "
                        Burlington
                    " Capt Sherman I landed at Port Henry & was soon with my family
                    relatives & friends in Moriah 
                        N.Y.
                     Staid there over two Sabbaths in both of which I again preached in their meeting House.
                    And in the week between travelled through the valley in joy & returned through West Port
                    & Port Henry. Left M. in the same steamer Monday night. The last part of the year I was
                    preaching to two little churches near to Vernon in 
                        Knox
                     Co. 0. My travels this year was 4700
                    m_____
            In Jan 1844 I took an agency for a religious newspaper published in 
                        Springfield
                     O. & went into the north of Ind. & over much of its territory lying
                    north of the 
                        Wabash
                     & Erie Canal—Between the canal & 
                        Michigan
                     State Line & also South of Lake Michigan I liked the
                    country as a new country very much. My spirit was stirred in me to help it. My ambition  was again roused with desire to commence again in a new field &
                    cultivate Society—To rear a superior school & to labor assiduously as a minister.
                    I chose my ground in 
                        Warsaw
                        Kosciusko
                    , Co. just on the margin of a pure lake then covered with ice I bargained for a house
                    lot—paid a small share of the price. Had a written request from every resident County
                    officer to return & settle there & start a seminary, but I had not money to effect a
                    removal & my wife was so averse—& opposed it so that I abandoned it
         
         
         
            The Hoosier Sunday School: A Potent Religious/Cultural Force
            
                    Grover L. Hartman*
               
                
            In 1980 the worldwide bicentennial of the Sunday school movement commemorated the establishment of a
                    Sabbath school in 
                  Gloucester, England
               , by the newspaper publisher Robert Raikes. Raikes did not
                    create the Sunday school—there were such schools in both Britain and the British colonies
                    in North America before he became interested in the idea—but he gave the movement focus
                    and launched it into the orbit of eighteenth-century life as a potent Social force. It was thus the
                    Socially conscious and religiously committed Raikes who bore the derision of his contemporaries in
                    church and state in regard to Sunday schools. They called him "Bobby Wild
                        Goose"1 and the children he brought together his "ragged
                    regiment." These early critics failed to recognize that the Sabbath school brought elements
                    of fundamental education to the children of Britain's factories and helped to instill in
                    those youngsters discipline and moral values based upon teaching of the Bible. Indeed, many students
                    of the Sunday school movement contend that it deserves to stand beside the work of John Wesley in
                    the compilation of factors which prevented Britain from indulging in the violent upheavals of the
                    French Revolution. Still others believe that the Sunday school is the most distinctive contribution
                    of Protestant Christianity to the worldwide church.2
            
            
               
                  * Grover L. Hartman was for twenty years (until 1979) executive
                        director of the Indiana Council of Churches and since retiring has served as a consultant for
                        the Commission on Regional and Local Ecumenism of the National Council of the Churches of
                        Christ. The following introductory survey of the Hoosier Sunday school movement is based on his
                        book, A School for God's People: A History of the Sunday School Movement
                            in Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1980). For a fuller discussion of the subject and for additional documentation
                        readers should refer to Hartman's longer work.
               
                  1 Robert W. Lynn and Elliott Wright, The Big Little School:
                            Sunday Child of American Protestantism (
                            New York
                        , 1971), 4–6; Gerald E. Knoff, "Robert Raikes, You Can
                        Try," Church School (October, 1979), 7–9.
               
                  2 Lynn and Wright, Big Little School, 15ff.
            
            
            The English Sunday school movement spread quickly to the new nation on the eastern coast of North
                    America. Indeed, the American Sunday school soon outshone its British forerunner. Like the
                    transplanted English sparrow, the Sunday school thrived in the 
                        United States
                    . As Dr. D. Campbell Wyckoff of 
                        Princeton
                     Seminary declared, the Sunday school became "as American as crab
                        grass."3 Societies in 
                  Boston, New York
               , and 
                        Philadelphia
                     were quickly organized to propagate the new movement, and the Sunday school concept
                    spread rapidly to the western frontier. Among the earliest established Sunday schools in the
                    nation—and the first in Ohiw—was that held by Mary Lake
                    in a blockhouse in 
                        Marietta
                     from 1791 to 1795.4
            
            It has long been a widely held assumption that the Sunday school movement in Indiana and the Middle
                    West was rooted in the eastern missionary Societies and Sunday school organizations. William H.
                    Levering of 
                        Lafayette
                    , foremost Indiana Sunday school man of the last half of the nineteenth century,
                    declared in his Historical Sketches of Sunday School Work in 1906: "The
                    first Indiana Sunday schools were not the product of the religious enthusiasm of the pioneers.
                    Rather they were a field for Christian missionaries from the churches of the East."
                    Levering and others generally accepted that the first Hoosier Sunday school was established at 
                        New Albany
                     in 1819 by the Reverend Isaac Reed, who was sent to Indiana by the 
                        Connecticut
                     Missionary Society.5
            
            Current research raises reasonable doubts with respect both to the 
                        New Albany
                     "first" with its eastern missionary founder and the Levering thesis
                    of exclusive eastern influence. The 
                        Philadelphia
                    -based American Sunday School Union, organized in 1824; the American Bible Society,
                    founded in 1821; and the American Tract Society, chartered in 1825, did play a vital fostering role
                    in the spread of Sunday schools in the West and effectively serviced the new movement, but all of
                    these organizations followed chronologically the founding of the first Sunday schools in 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana. Mary Lake's project in 
                        Marietta
                    , for example, points to the fact that almost without 
                  
                     3 Crabgrass, like the Sunday school a native of Europe, became widely
                            naturalized in North America. Rooting at the joints, even in the face of constant mowing,
                            it, according to Wyckoff, "makes thickset patches, and mowing merely induces new
                            flowering and fruiting spikes that shed their prolific seed." D. Campbell Wyckoff,
                            "As American as Crab Grass: The Protestant Sunday School," Religious Education, LXXV (January-February, 1980), 27.
                  
                     4 William H. Levering, Historical Sketches of Sunday
                                School Work in Indiana, North America, and beyond the Seas (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1906), 6.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., 8.
               
                     exception the pioneer Indiana Sunday schools were initially the
                    result of consecrated effort on the part of Hoosier citizens—mostly lay men and lay women
                    who saw a need and caught a vision of what Sunday schools could mean in the frontier setting. In
                    addition, a large majority of the early settlers in the Hoosier state were of southern, not eastern,
                    origin. They came from 
                  Kentucky, Tennessee, North
                        Carolina
               , and western 
                        Virginia
                     or from southern 
                        Ohio
                     and southwestern 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .6 John George Pfrimmer, a medical doctor and preacher, came to
                    Indiana from 
                        Ohio
                    , and evidence exists to support the assertion that he set up the first Hoosier Sunday
                    school in Corydon in 1814.7 Dr. Henry Little, for more than sixty years
                    connected with Sunday schools in Indiana, declared that there was a thriving Sunday school in 
                        Madison
                     in 1816. Little cites the founders of this school simply as certain "Godly
                    women" who "went around among the poor and friendless little boys and girls, got
                    them to promise to come to school and then provided them with decent clothing so they might come
                        together."8 It is likely also that Jesse L. Holman, a 
                        Kentucky
                     lawyer and one of the original justices of the Indiana Supreme Court, organized the
                    first Sunday school in 
                        Dearborn County
                     (
                        Aurora
                    ) prior to the one established by Reed in 
                        New Albany
                    . By 1830 Holman's efforts in southeastern Indiana had produced a Sunday school
                    union with twenty schools, 1,200 scholars, and 200 teachers.9 Tribute is, of
                    course, due Reed, who created the Sunday school in 
                        New Albany
                    —Indiana's largest pioneer town—under adverse
                    circumstances in April, 1819.10 Reed was an eastern missionary, but he stands
                    alone in this category among the founders of Indiana's first five Sunday schools. The
                    pioneer Sunday school in 
                        Indianapolis
                     was instituted by Isaac Coe, M.D., a well-trained physician and surgeon, who came from 
                        Virginia
                     to the soon-to-be Hoosier capital in 1821 and formed an adult Bible study group in 1822
                    and a union Sunday school in "Mr. C. Scudder's shop" in April, 1823.11
            
            
               
                  6 Donald F. Carmony, "Hoosiers and Their Heritage," Indiana: A Self-Appraisal, ed. Donald F. Carmony (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1966), 5–6.
               
                  7 Adam B. Condo, History of the Indiana Conference of the
                            United Brethren in Christ… (n.p., [1926]), 15–17.
               
                  8
                        Fifteenth Annual Session of the Indiana State Sunday School
                        Association… (
                            Chicago
                        , 1879). 5–7.
               
                  9 I. George Blake, The Holmans of Veraestau
                                (
                     Oxford, Ohio
                  , 1943), 37–39, passim; John F.
                        Cady, Origin and Development of the Missionary Baptist Church in Indiana ([
                            Franklin
                        , Ind.], 19421, 96.
               
                  10 Isaac Eked, The Christian Traveller (
                            New York
                        , 1828), 89.
               
                  11
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Union Sabbath School, "One Hundredth Anniversary of the Union Sabbath
                        School in 
                            Indianapolis
                        , April 6, 1823, through April 1, 1923," broadside (Indiana Division,
                        Indiana State Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        ).
            
            
            
               JOHN GEORGE PFRIMMER
               
               JESSE L. HOLMAN
               
               Reproduced from Grover L. Hartman. A School for Gods People: A History of the Sunday
                            School Movement in Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1980). opposite 8.
            
            
               ISAAC COE Reproduced from L C. Rudolph, Hoosier Zion: The Presbyterians in Early Indiana (
                     New Haven, Conn.
                  ,
                        1963), following 110
            
            
            If the initial impetus in the Sunday school movement in Indiana came from southern-oriented Hoosier
                    lay workers, the spread of Sunday schools across the state and the "staying power"
                    of the movement do owe a decisive debt to the missionaries of the eastern Societies and the field
                    workers of the American Sunday School Union. The annual reports and other communications of these
                    groups attest to the vigor and dedication with which they prosecuted the campaign to bring Christian
                    education to the Indiana frontier. As early as 1830 Holman brought his twenty-unit Sunday school
                    union in 
                        Dearborn County
                     into the American Sunday School Union, and he became a trustee of the ASSU, the first
                    from Indiana and one of the first in the West.12 Also in 1830 the ASSU adopted
                    the landmark Valley Resolution that "with reliance on divine aid determined "to
                    establish within two years a Sunday school in every destitute place where it is practicable in the
                    valley of the Mis~issippi."13 The resulting program had tremendous
                    impact on the spread of Sunday schools in the West. Generally, too, the eastern organizations
                    serviced the Indiana schools with instructional materials, such as the American Sunday School
                    Union's libraries, which became the first significant collection of books in many Indiana
                    communities.
            The pattern of Sunday school organization and propagation in Indiana reflects both the Hoosier
                    philosophy of independence and self-reliance and the spirit of cooperation prevalent on the
                    frontier. Hoosiers accepted encouragement and aid from the eastern Societies, but Sunday schools
                    were predominantly lay led, a fact which also, in part, illustrates the genius of the movement.14 The "union" principle was fundamental too. Sunday schools
                    often preceded churches and were interdenominational in character. In 
                        Indianapolis
                    , for example, the organizing committee consisted of two Presbyterians, a Methodist, a
                    Baptist, and a "Disciple" follower of Alexander Campbell. The curriculum was both
                    secular and religious with spellers and readers in addition to the Bible. Printed materials (largely
                    from the American Sunday School Union in 
                        Philadelphia
                     though in part produced locally for the 
                        Indianapolis
                     school and provisioned partially by a publishing enterprise in 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 
                  
                     12
                            Sixth Annual Report of the American Sunday School Union, 1830 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 18301, 37, 38.
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., 3.
                  
                     14 Often at the beginning of the movement ministers rejected Sunday
                            schools, declaring that the lay teachers were presumptuous interlopers on the
                            preacher's role.
               
                     which Holman was a leader) were nonsectarian and
                    noncon-troversial. Widely representative committees reviewed books and tracts to be sure they were
                    not offensive to any related church body. Since supporters of the Sunday school movement were split
                    on the slavery issue, they ignored it, thus in part avoiding the schisms that occurred in many other
                    elements of Society.15
            
            Sunday schools developed rapidly in Indiana. The fifth annual report of the American Sunday School
                    Union in 1829 recorded one hundred Sabbath schools in the Hoosier state with 741 teachers and 5,651
                        scholars.16 When the first Indiana Sabbath School Convention was held in 
                        Indianapolis
                     from October 27 to 29, 1857, 166 schools were represented by the 341 delegates. J. W.
                    McIntyre, head of the American Sunday School Union's field staff in Indiana, reported 145
                    new schools organized within the year, 99 visited and aided, 906 teachers enlisted, 6,424 new
                    scholars enrolled, $348.00 given in libraries and text books, $3,355.85 worth
                    of books sold, 11,464 miles traveled, and 251 addresses given.17
            
            Sunday schools often drew top community leadership. One influential "Sunday school
                    man" was Calvin Fletcher, generally regarded as the "first citizen" of
                    early 
                        Indianapolis
                     and certainly by record the top taxpayer in the young city. In 1840 the Reverend Allen
                    Wiley recruited Fletcher as a teacher in the Methodist Sabbath school, and in 1842 the business
                    leader was elected one of five superintendents of the school. For seventeen years thereafter
                    Fletcher recorded in his diary accounts of many Sunday school activities, including colorful
                    parades, musical concerts by the children, and the first Sabbath School Convention, which he helped
                    to organize.18 Before Fletcher laid down his responsibilities, another noted
                    man, Benjamin Harrison, had entered the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Sunday school scene. When the future president of the 
                        United States
                     arrived in 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1854 with his young bride, he quickly affiliated with the First Presbyterian Church;
                    and before he went off to service in the Civil War, Harrison was the Sunday school superintendent
                    and Mrs. Harrison head of the infants' department.19 With 
                  
                     15 Lynn and Wright, Big Little School, passim.
                  
                     16
                     Fifth Annual Report of the American Sunday School
                            Union, 1829 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1829), 17, 18.
                  
                     17
                     Journal of the First Sabbath School Convention (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1858), 16.
                  
                     18 Gayle Thornbrough, Dorothy Riker, and Paula Corpuz, eds., The Diary of Calvin Fletcher (8 vols. to date, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1972-), passim.
                  
                     19 Harry J. Sievers, Benjamin Harrison. Volume I,
                                Hoosier Warrior, 1833–1865 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1952). 113.
               
                     this background it is easy to understand President
                    Harrison's affirmative response to 
                        Philadelphia
                     merchant John Wanamaker, who, on being asked to become postmaster general, accepted
                    with the proviso that he might return on weekends to the superintendency of his Bethany Sunday
                    school, widely regarded as the greatest in the land.20 Justice Holman led the
                    Sunday school movement in southeastern Indiana, and Judge John Scott, author of the epoch-making
                    article on education in the Indiana constitution of 1816, became the first president of the Indiana
                    Sunday School Union.21 In 
                        Richmond
                     the foremost Sunday school leader was Elijah Coffin, cashier of the national bank, a
                    memorable record of whose "First Day School" in the Friends Meeting has been left
                    by an Englishman, William Tallack, in his Friendly Sketches in America.22
            
            The Hoosier Sunday school in its first half-century contributed positively to the moral climate of
                    frontier communities where drinking and boisterous recreation were the order of the day on the
                    Sabbath. John J. Funk, one of the leaders in the development of Sunday schools among the Mennonites,
                    believed that such schools were the best means of overcoming the religious illiteracy and
                    indifference threatening Society, eliminating Sabbath desecration, fostering worship and reverence,
                    facilitating evangelism, and nurturing the spiritual life.23 A story by Isaac
                    Reed illustrates the negative quality of the environment to which the Sunday schools addressed
                    themselves. An upright farmer, approached by Reed to join in the call to worship services and a
                    Sabbath school, said he could not afford to sign a notice but would put it up at the neighborhood
                    still where everybody would see it.24 The mobilization of spiritual resources in
                    the Sunday schools carried over to the facing of other concerns and generally advanced the total
                    moral and religious enterprise.
            Considerable evidence also points to a significant contribution by the Sunday schools to public
                        education.25 Certainly 
                  
                     20 Lynn and Wright, Big Little School, 71.
                  
                     21
                            Centennial Memorial: First Presbyterian Church, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1925), 213–14.
                  
                     22 William Tallack. Friendly Sketches in America (
                                London
                            . 1861). 233–37.
                  
                     23 Milo F. Kauffmann, "Thk Rise and Development of the Sunday
                            Schools in the Mennonite Church in Indiana" (M.A. thesis, Presbyterian Theological
                            Seminary, 
                                Chicago
                            , 1931), 12.
                  
                     24 Reed, Christian Traveller, 71.
                  
                     25 The best discussion of the relationship of the Sunday school
                            movement to public education is David M. McCord, "Sunday School and Public School:
                            An
               
                     the relationship between the two evolving movements in
                    pre–Civil War Indiana was a close one. The forward-looking Article IX of
                    Indiana's first constitution in 1816—unique among the constitutions in the
                    states of the Northwest Territory—called for a general system of education and
                    established means to implement a public school fund and create public libraries. This dream was slow
                    of realization. In 1840 George H. Dunn, state superintendent of common schools, reported that 1,521
                    primary schools were giving instruction to only 48,189 children out of 273,784 between the ages of
                    five and twenty in the state.26 An Indiana Sunday school missionary's
                    report in 1837 perhaps typifies the Hoosier educational situation: "In 23 counties of the 
                        Wabash
                     country there are, as we are informed, only 61 common schools. Several of the 23
                    counties have but a single school and there are five or six which have no schools at
                        all."27 Such conditions provided incentive for funding Sunday
                    schools, and these schools often preceded the public schools, bringing the first opportunity for
                    formal education to the children in many communities. In addition, Sunday school libraries
                    frequently constituted the only collection of books in a pioneer community. In many instances Sunday
                    schools also supported, encouraged, and, on occasion, provided standards of teaching for the
                    emerging public schools. In its first annual report of 1826 the Indiana Sunday School Union
                    enunciated as policy: "Let Sabbath schools be established wherever practicable. They will
                    answer the double purpose of paving the way for common schools, and serving as a substitute until
                    they are generally formed. Parents and children, becoming sensible to the sweets and benefits of
                    learning, will unite in one loud and determined call for the permanent means of
                        education."28 Holman believed that the best teachers in the public
                    schools were also in the Sunday schools, "one school complementary to the
                        other."29 Indeed, at least one spokesman for the American Home
                    Missionary Society felt that deficiencies in the salaries of pious school teachers should be paid by
                    the Society as were the salaries of missionaries.30
            
            
               Exploration of Their Relationship with Special Reference to Indiana" (Ph.D.
                        dissertation, Department of Education, Purdue University, 
                            West Lafayette
                        , Indiana, 1976).
               
                  26 "Report of George H. Dunn, Esq., Superintendent of Common
                        Schools," in Indiana, Documentary Journal (1843–1844),
                        327.
               
                  27
                        Thirteenth Annual Report of the American Sunday School Union (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1837).
               
                  28 Quoted in Rudolph, Hoosier Zion, 165.
               
                  29 Blake, Holmans of Vemestau, 38.
               
                  30 Theron Baldwin to Absalom Peters, April 12, 1836, American Home
                        Missionary Society Collection (Indiana Division, Indiana State Library).
            
            
            Black churches in particular were important in providing educational opportunities for black youth.
                    The inevitable pattern of black settlement in Indiana included the establishment of an African
                    Methodist Episcopal church and an accompanying school.31 Pastor-missionaries of
                    the AME church moved out boldly toward the realization of the declaration of the Indiana Annual
                    Conference of 1854: "it shall be the duty of each of our traveling preachers to establish
                    and encourage, day and Sabbath schools in their charges, and to preach two or more sermons on the
                    subject of education during the conference year."32
            
            The importance of the Sunday school as a factor in the general education of the public ended in
                    Indiana during the final decades of the nineteenth century. Due in part to the influence of Caleb
                    Mills, the Constitution of 1851 recognized the need for a statewide system of public schools, and
                    subsequent legislation—though not without serious setbacks—eventually provided
                    a financial base for such a system.33 By the late 1800s the Indiana public
                    school system was developing rapidly, and the involvement of the churches, whether through Sunday
                    schools or church-sponsored weekday schools, diminished accordingly.
            The second era of the Hoosier Sunday school, which represented its flowering as a force for religious
                    education, began with the founding of the Indiana Sunday School Association in 1865. The impetus for
                    this new thrust came from the "
                        Illinois
                     Band," a group of younger leaders who took control of the 
                        Illinois
                     Sunday School Convention in 1864. Included among them were Dwight L. Moody, destined to
                    become one of the foremost American evangelists in the latter half of the nineteenth century;
                    Benjamin F. Jacobs, a Baptist layman who was a produce dealer and realtor in 
                        Chicago
                    ; a young Methodist clergyman, John H. Vincent; William Reynolds, a Peoria businessman;
                    and Edward Eggleston, a Sunday school editor who later became most famous for his book The Hoosier Schoolmaster.34 These young movers and shakers branded the
                    old state association stodgy and inept. They went after its reformation 
                  
                     31 Herbert Lynn Heller, "Negro Education in Indiana from 1816
                            to 1869" (Ed.D. dissertation, School of Education, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , 1951), 138.
                  
                     32
                     Journal of the Proceedings of the Fifteenth Annual
                                Conference of the African Methodist Episcopal Church, for the District of Indiana,
                            1854 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1854), 16–17. See also Heller, "Negro Education in
                            Indiana," 138–39.
                  
                     33 Charles W. Moores, Caleb Mills and the Indiana School
                                System Indiana Historical Society Publications, Vol. 111; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1905). 363.
                  
                     34 Lynn and Wright, Big Little School,
                            56–59.
               
                    
                    
                  CALVIN FLETCHER
                  
                  Reproduced from Gayle Thornbrough, ed., Diary of Calvin Fletcher. Volume I.
                                1817–1838 … (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1972). frontispiece.
               
                    
                  CALEB MILLS
                  
                  Reproduced from L. C. Rudolph, Hoosier Zion: The Presbyterians tn Early
                            Indiana (
                        New Haven, Conn.
                     , 1963). opposite 110.
               
                     with zest. Possessed of a genius for organization and a rare
                    ability to attract like-minded leaders, they produced educational innovations that captured public
                    imagination. Within a year their missionary zeal had penetrated Indiana where their recruits formed
                    a state Sunday school association at an organizing convention in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on May 30, 1865. The new organization built upon and preserved the corporate name of
                    the forty-year-old State Sunday School Union.
            The Indiana association grew rapidly. The second convention, held in 
                        New Albany
                     on June 5–7, 1866, provided a preview of Indiana conventions for the rest of
                    the century and was typical of the assemblies of the faithful in other states. Featured was a mass
                    meeting of all the Sunday schools in the area, which meeting was opened with a rousing rendition of
                    the song, "The Sunday School Army." A Committee on Permanent Organization was set
                    up, and Colonel John W. Ray, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     leader, was elected president. A lengthy discussion of the relationship of the Sunday
                    school to the church resulted in the declaration that "The Sabbath school is the Nursery of
                    the Lord and it shall be used as a means of replenishing the church." Another resolution
                    called for the organization of a teachers' institute in each congressional district.
                    Indications of an emerging Social conscience also appeared in the 1866 convention. A resolution
                    demanded that more strenuous efforts be made "to bring poor and destitute children under
                    influence of Sabbath school instruction and culture." There was feeling that the Sunday
                    school was becoming a middle-class institution. On the first day convention delegates received and
                    tabled a resolution asking the schools to seek signers of temperance and anti-tobacco pledges. The
                    next day convention delegates adopted a more general statement supporting a "great
                    temperance reformation."35
            
            The third convention at 
                        Lafayette
                     on June 4–7, 1867, was considered one of the best in the first decade of the
                    Indiana Sunday School Association. The meeting place in the opera house overflowed. A combined choir
                    of one thousand children charmed the convention, which also witnessed a lengthy procession of Sunday
                    school scholars headed by the Star City Band. Leaders were pleased with the high level of enthusiasm
                    in evidence. The Honorable Will Cumback, a wartime administrative 
                  
                     35 The Indiana State Library and the Indiana Historical Society
                            Library both have collections of the Indiana Sunday School Convention proceedings from which
                            information in the following paragraphs was gleaned.
               
                     leader and close friend of General Lew Wallace, took over the
                    presidency from Ray, who successfully sponsored a resolution advising each school to organize a
                    "normal class" composed of persons willing to teach. From such trained persons
                    teachers for the Sunday school classes could be selected.
            The 1868 convention in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     marked the appearance of the comprehensive statistical report, a characteristic of all
                    later conventions. This first report recorded 580 schools; 46,791 scholars; an average attendance of
                    32,369; 2,243 scholars professing religion during the year; 80,780 volumes in libraries; 240,196
                    papers and pamphlets distributed; and $13,092.84 in benevolent contributions. Noteworthy
                    on the program was Edward Eggleston, who had yet to write The Hoosier
                    Schoolmaster. Born at 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana, but in 1868 a Sunday school publisher in 
                        Illinois
                    , Eggleston used this homecoming to declare his conviction that the pulpit could not be
                    depended upon for teaching; that full periods should be given to teachers freed from the
                    interruption of librarians bringing round the books for loan; that time should not be
                    "wasted on the geography of Bible lands"; that memorization was being
                    overemphasized; that no child "should read more than he can be taught to
                    understand"; that conditions for rewards should be such that "they can be attained
                    by any scholar in the school"; and that the prime objective was "to lead children
                    to Christ."
            The proceedings of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     convention played up some of the drama and color always attached to these annual
                    gatherings. On the second day the agenda was interrupted to hear a concert by two thousand Sunday
                    school children. The children, in gala dress, met in their churches, then marched two abreast, led
                    by the "splendid Jones Cornet Band," to the assembly point at 
                        Wayne
                     Street Methodist Church, largest in the city. The lively account of the day noted that,
                    with their teachers beside them, the children "fluttered along in white dresses and gay
                    ribbons with beautiful flags and appropriate banners floating overall." Children of the
                    host church sang "Glory Be to God"; those from Second Presbyterian Church offered
                    "The Volunteer Song"; from the English Lutheran Church "Land Without a
                    Storm"; and from Centenary Methodist "My House Upon a Rock." The boys and
                    girls from the German Reformed school, singing in German, "maintained the most excellent
                    perfect time and won a merited applause." The other selections were "Sing
                    Jesus' Name" by the combined choruses of the Third and Fourth Presbyterian
                    churches; "In a Manger Laid" by the Baptist Sunday school;
                    "Won't You Volunteer?" 
                    
                  COLONEL JOHN W. RAY
                  
                  WILL CUMBACK
                  
                  Reproduced from Grover L Hartman, A School for Gods People. A History of the
                                Sunday School Movement in Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1980). 55, 51.
               
                     by the Evans Mission and Bloomingdale schools; "0
                    Christian Awake" by the Berry Street Methodist youth; and "Shall We
                    Gather?" by the children of First Presbyterian Church. The program closed with all present
                    singing the Long Meter Doxology.
            In 1873 William Levering of 
                        Lafayette
                    , who was destined to become the inspiring and effective guiding spirit of the Sunday
                    school movement in Indiana, became for the first time an officer of the association. Appointed to
                    collect statewide statistics, Levering went after his job with characteristic vigor and in 1874
                    reported 3,116 schools with 32,643 officers and teachers and 252,000 scholars. Shortly thereafter
                    the 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     leader was elected to the presidency of the association and with "entire
                    consecration and consummate generalship devoted time and his great physical, mental and spiritual
                    powers" to the full organization of the Sunday school movement in Indiana.36 In the next three years President Levering traveled the length and breadth of the state,
                    addressed hundreds of meetings, wrote over one thousand letters, prayed, prodded, and cajoled. By
                    1877 he could report to the convention that the Hoosier state had achieved complete standard
                    organization. Indiana was a "Banner State," one of only three in the nation having
                    all of its counties organized and a county convention in every one during the year. Levering
                    proclaimed a "Year of Jubilee" and called for thanks to God for "the
                    thousands of children gathered in and for those who spoke His name in a whisper or with a blush but
                    now proclaim their faith unabashed." In his presidential address in 1877 Levering asserted
                    that these grand results had been accomplished "without the expense of one dollar to anyone
                    connected with the association." Indiana's secret, he declared, lay in the fact
                    that "her sons and daughters have rendered all unto God as a thank offering for
                    Jesus' sake." To keep things going the president called for the creation of an
                    executive board "with discrimination between emotional gas and consecrated grit."
                    The statistics for 1877 indicated 3,965 reporting schools; 39,357 teachers and officers; 310,936
                    scholars; an average attendance of 217,782; 7,350 received into church membership; and
                    $15,434.79 in benevolent contributions.37
            
            
               
                  36 Timothy Michelson, "Sunday Schools in Indiana," 32nd General Convention of the 
                                Ohio
                             Sunday School Association, 
                        Marietta, Ohio
                     , June
                            2–4, 1891 (
                     Columbus, Ohio
                  , 1891), 171ff.
               
                  37 The basic account of Levering's life is "William Hagy
                        Levering" in the book by his twin brother, Colonel John Levering, Levering
                            Family: History and Genealogy (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1897), 891–93.
            
            
            In 1872 Indiana and its Sunday school association played a major role in one of the most significant
                    developments in the Sunday school movement nationwide—the establishment of the
                    International or Uniform Sunday School Lesson System. At its convention in 1867 the Indiana Sunday
                    School Union had adopted a resolution calling for the resumption of the national conventions, which
                    had lapsed after 1859. The first convention in the renewed series was held at 
                  Newark, New
                    Jersey
               , in 1869. To it John Ray of 
                        Indianapolis
                     carried an Indiana resolution advocating that the whole Sunday school have the same
                    lesson at the same time. The idea met with considerable favor but was held over until the 1872
                    convention, which was set for 
                        Indianapolis
                     in response to Ray's invitation, The historic 1872 conclave was held at Second
                    Presbyterian Church, April 16 to 19. After considerable debate the convention adopted the following
                    enabling resolution: 
                        Resolved, That this Convention appoint a committee to consist of five clergymen and five
                            laymen to select a course of Bible lessons for a series of years not exceeding seven, which
                            shall, so far as they may decide possible, embrace a general study of the whole Bible,
                            alternating between the Old and New Testaments semiannually or quarterly, as they shall deem
                            best, and to publish a list of such lessons as fully as possible, and at least for the two
                            years next ensuing, as early as the first of August, 1872; and that this Convention
                            recommend their adoption by the Sunday schools of the whole country.38
                  
                     Thus the most audacious development in the history of the Sunday schools was
                    launched—and on Indiana soil. Before long one could go to a Sunday school almost anywhere
                    in the 
                        United States
                    —and in many other countries as well—and enter into the same
                    series of Bible studies with which he was familiar at home.
            As the nineteenth century wound down, the Indiana Sunday School Association in 1888 acquired its
                    first salaried executive, the Reverend J. E. Gilbert, D.D. As pastor of the Meridian Street
                    Methodist Church in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Gilbert had developed a Sunday school teacher-training program that appealed to many
                    leaders in Indiana. In part because he concentrated on urban areas in his attempt to develop further
                    the state program, Gilbert was unpopular with the largely rural Sunday school movement. Funding was
                    therefore not forthcoming, and at the 
                        Logansport
                     convention in 1891 Gilbert's tenure was terminated. After an interim during
                    which volunteers 
                  
                     38 The story of this historic convention is detailed in Centennial Celebration: Our Heritage in Uniform Lessons, 1872–1972 (
                                St. Louis
                            , 1972).
               
                     again shouldered the work the association called Charles D.
                    Meigs, Jr., to executive leadership. From 1893 to 1900 Meigs carried the movement forward
                    decisively. One of his innovations was the launching of The Awakener, house organ
                    of the Sunday school movement for fifty years.39 Another of Meigs's
                    ideas was the Home Department, a pioneer development among the nation's Sunday schools.
                    This program enrolled persons confined to their homes and provided a curriculum for their study.
                    Under Meigs and his successors Indiana maintained a position of national leadership. State
                    conventions drew upward of three thousand delegates with more than five thousand gathering for the
                    traditional picnics, concerts, and parades. The statistics reported to the convention at 
                        Muncie
                     in 1916 indicated a high point in the Hoosier Sunday school movement: 69,958 officers
                    and teachers, 580,231 enrollment in 5,388 schools, and average attendance of 391,957. Significant in
                    these statistics was the listing of 3,895 chartered adult Bible classes. These classes had grown up
                    after 1900. In some churches they not only dominated the Sunday school scene, but attendance in them
                    was often greater than that of the worship services in the churches which fostered them.
            Many significant movements and developments spawned by the Sunday schools during the late nineteenth
                    century exercised tremendous influence with regard to both Christian education and general education
                    in the 
                        United States
                     and in Indiana. The first notable innovation was the chautauqua. The guiding light of
                    this development was Methodist Bishop John H. Vincent, longtime chairman of the International
                    Uniform Sunday School Lesson Committee. Having acquired the old camp meeting grounds on Lake
                        Chautauqua in northwestern 
                        New York
                    , Bishop Vincent launched the new institution in 1874 as a center where the study of the
                    Bible and Sunday school teaching methods could be refined.40 By 1894, stemming
                    from the 
                        New York
                     beginning, ten thousand local study circles had been established, 7,590 of them in
                    towns under 3,500 population. One of the six most significant statewide chautauqua assemblies was at
                        Winona Lake, Indiana. Other large ones were begun by Indiana Baptists on
                        Pine Lake near 
                        Angola
                     and on the Assembly Grounds of the Northwest Indiana Methodist 
                  
                     39 Volume I, Number 1, of The Awakener came out in
                            October, 1893. The numbering continues in The Indiana Church Councilor, a
                            publication of the Indiana Council of Churches, which succeeded the Indiana Sunday School
                            Association in 1942.
                  
                     40 "The Chautauqua Centennial,"
                                The Christian, 111 (July 15, 19731, 10–11.
               
                    
                    
                  WILLIAM H. LEVERING
                  
                  CHARLES D. MEIGS, JR
                  
                  Reproduced from Grover L Hartman, A School for God's People A History
                                of the Sunday School Movement in Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1980). 53. 62
               
                     Conference at Battle Ground. Others sprang up elsewhere, often
                    in tabernacles, sometimes in tents. Only one chautauqua remains in operation in Indiana—a
                    sixteen-day program at 
                        Fountain
                     Park near Remington. Not all chautauquas, of course, were religiously sponsored or even
                    religiously oriented, but at the peak of the movement in the early 1920s, thirty million Americans
                    attended such meetings in twelve thousand small towns coast to coast.
            Many see the Sunday schools as the first American adult education centers and the inspiration for the
                    adult education movement generally.41 William Rainey Harper moved from a
                    professorship at Chautauqua to the presidency of the University of 
                        Chicago
                    . There he developed, among other noteworthy educational offerings, an impressive
                    program of adult education centered on a widespread network of correspondence courses. At one time
                    150,000 Americans were reputedly enrolled in such courses in Greek and Hebrew. Harper also founded
                    the Religious Education Association.
            Beginning about 1920, Vacation Bible Schools became a concern of the Sunday school forces. In that
                    year Dr. Edward R. Bartlett came from 
                        Minneapolis
                     to the Indiana State Convention to speak on "Utilizing Vacation Time for
                    Religious Education." Soon the Children's Division of the Sunday school
                    association assumed responsibility for promoting the vacation schools, and training programs were
                    devised to prepare teachers and administrators of these summer schools of religion.
            In the conventions of the early years of the twentieth century resolutions appeared in support of
                    accredited Bible study courses in Indiana high schools. Such a program was instituted through the
                    State Department of Public Instruction, and many Hoosier high school students in the 1920s and 1930s
                    accumulated half-credits toward graduation for a semester's study of the Old or New
                    Testament. The classes were usually taught by pastors or religious educators outside the school
                    faculties, and the state-administered examinations were sent to 
                        Indianapolis
                     for grading by members of the State Department of Public Instruction.
            Indiana was the location of the pioneer American weekday religious education program. Begun in 
                        Gary
                     in 1914 as a result of the vision of William Wirt, superintendent of that
                    city's 
                  
                     41 C. Hartley Grattan, In Quest of Knowledge: A
                                Historical Perspective on Adult Education (
                                New York
                            , 1955), 71–72, 166–67, passim.
               
                     schools, the weekday movement spread rapidly across Indiana and
                    over the nation.42 Approximately 50,000 children, mostly in the fourth and fifth
                    grades, attended released-time classes at the peak of the program's popularity in Indiana.
                    When legal decisions ruled out weekday classes within the schools themselves, the Christian
                    education forces worked for the legalization of locally sponsored classes outside school buildings
                    in nearby churches or mobile classrooms. In 1943, for example, the state Sunday school convention
                    declared its support for House Bill 195, the Religious Education Bill, which allowed weekday
                    released-time classes up to 120 minutes a week.
            Sunday schools even evolved their own particular style of architecture—the famous (or, to
                    some critics, infamous) "Akron Plan." Developed in the last quarter of the
                    nineteenth century in the 
                        Ohio city
                     from which it took its name, the Akron-style arrangement was chosen by almost all
                    congregations at the end of the Victorian era when they undertook construction of religious
                    education facilities. The plan called for a theater-style central room with a stage from which the
                    superintendent conducted the Sunday school. This central room provided the assembly hall for opening
                    and closing exercises and for plays, concerts, and other events rising out of the Sunday school
                    program. On the stage, also, there was room for the Sunday school orchestra, which often played to
                    welcome the arriving "scholars" and later marched them off to class. The assembly
                    hall might also be the locale for the men's Bible class (although frequently this class
                    could only be accommodated in the sanctuary or the church dining room in the basement). The Akron
                    design was well adapted to schools using the uniform lessons, for from his lofty pinnacle on the
                    stage the superintendent could actually see into the many classes in alcoves off the central hall
                    and sometimes off the balcony as well when such a feature was included by the architect.43
            
            In 1920 the Interchurch World Movement conducted a comprehensive evaluation of the Indiana Sunday
                    schools, one of five state systems projected to be so surveyed. Only the Indiana study was
                    completed, and the 
                        New York
                    -based Committee on Social and Religious Surveys, chaired by Dr. John R. Mott, 
                  
                     42 Erwin R. Shaver, The Weekday Church School: How to
                                Organize and Conduct a Program of Weekday Religious Education on Released Time (
                                Boston
                            , 1956), 13.
                  
                     43 One of the best examples of the Akron-style Sunday school facility
                            is at Central Avenue United Methodist Church, 12th Street at Central Avenue, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
               
                    
                    
                  AKRON STYLE SUNDAY SCHOOL FACILITY
                            AT CENTRAL AVENUE UNITED METHODIST CHURCH, INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA
                  
                  Reproduced from Grover L. Hartman, A School far God's People: A History
                                of the Sunday School Movement in Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1980), 87.
               
                     published the findings in 1923.44 According
                    to the survey, Indiana's churches had not, for the most part, assumed responsibility for
                    organizing, administering, or planning their church schools, most of which were quite small. Of
                    those studied, the median school was in a one-room church with eight classes, and in 65 percent of
                    the schools the average attendance was under one hundred. Income for the church schools was derived
                    from regular and special offerings and from individual contributions. The schools spent 55.8 percent
                    of their resources on themselves and 44.2 percent on other religious work, with denominational
                    causes—especially missions—placing highest. Teachers were profiled as sincere,
                    devoted Christians of mature years, untrained and unsupervised.
            One result of the 1920 survey was increased emphasis on a higher degree of professionalism in the
                    Sunday school movement. In succeeding decades Hoosier Sunday schools reflected this national trend.
                    The International Council of Religious Education, founded in 1920, was itself a product of and in
                    turn promoted the new ideas. Leaders in the movement questioned the International Uniform Lessons
                    and suggested that they be replaced by graded lessons tailored to the maturity level of the
                    students. Denominations at long last became full partners in the educational enterprise. On December
                    28, 1923, at the old English Hotel in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , representatives of the Indiana denominations and of the county Sunday school
                    organizations met to constitute the Indiana Sunday School Council of Religious Education. Half of
                    the board of the new organization was to be elected by the state Sunday school convention and half
                    by the affiliating denominations.45 Indiana soon adopted the pattern of a
                    comprehensive council of churches that was being advanced by field staffs of the Federal Council of
                    Churches, representing the Christian life and work aspect of American Protestantism, and of the
                    International Council of Religious Education. The Indiana Council of Churches was organized in
                    January, 1943, with the Indiana Council of Christian Education (successor of the 1923 Sunday School
                    Council of Religious Education) becoming the educational division of a denominationally based
                        structure.46
            
            
               
                  44 Walter S. Athearn, The Religious Education of Protestants
                            in an American Commonwealth (
                            New York
                        , 1923).
               
                  45 "Facing the Facts," The Awakener,
                        XXXI (January, 1924), 4.
               
                  46 "The Indiana Council of Churches," ibid., LI (January, 1943), 2.
            
            
            
               PINE GROVE METHODIST EPISCOPAL CHURCH. WHITE COUNTY, INDIANA. TYPICAL HOME
                        OF
                        THE RURAL SUNDAY SCHOOL.
               SPENCER COUNTY, INDIANA, SUNDAY SCHOOL EXHIBIT
                        AT COUNTY FAIR, ROCKPORT
               
               Reproduced from Walter S Athearn el al, Religious Education of Protestants in an
                            American Commonwealth (Indiana Survey of Rehgrour, Education, Vol. I. 
                            New York
                        . 1923). opposite 528
            
            
            
               SUNDAY SCHOOL GROUP, C. 1906 UNITED BRETHREN CHURCH, OCKLEY, INDIANA
               
               Reproduced from C. E. Gerard and Michael G. Griffey, The 
                                Carroll County
                             Sesquicentennial Publications.
                            1824–1828–1974–1978 A Photographic Portrayal of Old Life in
                            a Hoosier Community, the Pictorial History of 
                                Carroll County
                            
                   (Delphi. Ind., 1977)
            
            
            
               Olive BRANCH CHRISTIAN SUNDAY SCHOOL INDIANAPOLIS, MARCH 13, 1921
               Bretzman Collection, Courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
            
               FIRST PRESBYTERIAN CHURCH SUNDAY SCHOOL INDIANAPOLIS, JULY 1, 1923
               Bretzman Collection, Courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library. 
                            Indianapolis
                        
               
            
            
            
               MOTHER GOOSE PARTY, PRIMARY DEPARTMENT CENTRAL AVENUE M. E. CHURCH, INDIANAPOLIS, APRIL 9, 1915
               Bretzman Collection. Courtesy Indiana Historical Society Library, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
            
            
            In the past twenty years Sunday schools in the mainline Protestant churches have declined. As an
                    example, average attendance in Sunday schools of the Indiana Baptist Convention (American Baptist)
                    fell from 48,928 in 1958 to 34,375 in 1975 (a 30 percent drop). For the United Methodist churches
                    enrollment went from 335,033 in 1960 to 183,656 in 1978 (a 45 percent loss) and average attendance
                    dropped from 169,562 to 90,349 (47 percent). The Southern Baptists, the Assemblies of God, and the
                    independent, fundamental Baptists and Christians maintain the largest Sunday schools in Indiana
                    today. These churches are reviving the Indiana Sunday School Convention, which lapsed in the 1950s,
                    and are quick to assert that they now carry the revered Sunday school banner. Mainline Protestant
                    churches, in which the number of Sunday schools, enrollment, and attendance have declined during the
                    last twenty years, continue to evaluate their place in the Sunday school movement and the place of
                    the Sunday school overall as a means of nurturing Christian faith and practice.
         
         
         
            Governor Joseph A. Wright, Librarian
            
                    Martin D. Joachim*
               
                
            Although details of the political career of Joseph A. Wright, governor of Indiana from 1849 to 1857,
                    are well established, biographical sources do not indicate that the governor was once a youthful
                    librarian at the 
                        Monroe County
                     Library in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, a position which he held from December 3, 1827, to February 25, 1830. At the
                    age of seventeen or eighteen,1 "Joseph A. Wright was elected Librarian
                    who appeared & gave bond & security which was approved by the [library]
                        board."2 The position of librarian was thus the first public office
                    of a fledgling politician whose career would ultimately 
                  
                     * Martin D. Joachim is associate librarian and head of the
                            Cataloging Department, Indiana University Libraries, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                  
                     1 Wright's birth date is given in most sources as April 17,
                            1810. A Biographical History of Eminent and Self-Made Men of the State of
                                Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1880), 11, 247, gives the year of birth as 1809. In his doctoral dissertation
                            Philip M. Crane discusses the question of the birth date. He notes that the 1810 date is
                            used in William W. Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early
                                Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883). 94; and in Jacob P. Dunn, Indiana and Indianans: A History
                                of Aboriginal and Territorial Indiana and the Century of Statehood (5 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), I, 501. Crane goes on to state: "Woollen and Dunn doubtless
                            took the date from newspaper accounts of Wright's death in 1867 which listed the
                            date of his birth as 1810. The records of early Indiana legislatures contained in the
                            English Collection at the Indiana Historical Society library list Wright as twenty-four when
                            he served in the 1833–1834 session of the General Assembly. This would mean, if
                            correct, that Wright had to have been born in 1809, for the session ended before his
                            birthday in April 1834. Moreover, references by Wright himself to events in his life at
                            particular ages support the 1809 date. Probably the best evidence comes from a genealogy
                            taken from a family Bible … citing Wright's birth date as
                            1809." Philip M. Crane, "Governor Jo Wright: Hoosier
                            Conservative" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , 1963), 4. If the 1809 date is accepted, Wright would have been about
                            4% months shy of his nineteenth birthday when he was elected librarian.
                  
                     2
                            
                                Monroe County
                             Library, Record of Trustees, December 3, 1827 (Indiana Room, 
                                Monroe County
                             Public Library, 
                                Bloomington
                            ). This document will hereafter be referred to as Record of Trustees. It is
                            interesting to note that Wright's appointment as librarian did not meet the
                            requirements stipulated in the library's own bylaws. Article 4 of the bylaws states
                            that "the Librarian
               
                    
                    
                  JOSEPH A. WRIGHT
                  
                  Reproduced from Willism W. Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches of
                                Early Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1883), opposite 94
               
                     include service as a member of both the Indiana and 
                        United States
                     houses of representatives and senates, as governor of Indiana, and as 
                        United States
                     minister to Prussia.
            Coming from 
                  Washington, Pennsylvania
               , Wright's family settled in 
                        Bloomington
                     about 1820. The future governor resided in 
                        Monroe County
                     until about 1830 when he moved to 
                        Rockville
                     in 
                        Parke County
                    . During the decade of his residency in 
                        Bloomington
                    , Wright, by perseverance and hard work, overcame his family's poverty and the
                    death of his father in 1825 to put himself through two years at the state seminary (later Indiana
                    University) and to qualify for admission to the study of law.3 Much of this
                    dedicated work and his legal studies took place while he was librarian.
            By the time Wright became librarian of 
                        Monroe County
                    , many libraries had already been organized in the Ohio Valley. In
                    1780 the 
                        Virginia
                     legislature chartered the Transylvania Seminary in 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , but
                    it was not until late 1788 or early 1789 that the seminary received any books to start its library.
                    "This was certainly the beginning of the first Anglo-American library in the Ohio
                        Valley south of 
                        Pittsburgh
                    ."4 The number of libraries in the Middle West continued to
                    grow, and by 1850 there were in Indiana, 
                  Kentucky, Tennessee, Ohio
               , and 
                        Illinois
                     more than five hundred of them, not including private libraries and school or Sunday
                    school libraries.5 The first library in Indiana was established at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1806 and was supported by the sale of shares6
            
            A library for 
                        Monroe County
                     was organized by the legislature in an act approved January 14, 1818. Section 6 of the
                    act indicates an early awareness of the importance of books and 
                  shall be a resident & qualified voter of the County of 
                                Monroe
                            ." "By-Laws for the 
                                Bloomington
                             Library," Record of Trustees, March 31, 1820. The Indiana Constitution
                            of 1816 states: "In all elections … every white male Citizen of the
                            united States, of the age of twenty-one years and upwards, who has resided in the State, one
                            year immediately preceding such election shall be entitled to vote in the County where he
                            resides. … " Charles Kettleborough, Constitution Making in
                                Indiana: A Source Book of Constitutional Documents with Historical Introduction and
                                Critical Notes. Volume I, 1780–1851 (Indiana Historical
                                Collections, Vol. I; 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 107.
                  
                     3 Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches,
                            94–95.
                  
                     4 Thomas D. Clark, "Building Libraries in the Early
                                Ohio Valley," Journal of Library
                            History, VI (April, 1971), 102.
                  
                     5 Haynes McMullen, "Libraries in the Ohio
                            Valley Before 1850," in Reader in American Library
                            History, ed. Michael H. Harris (Washington, 1971), 57.
                  
                     6 A discussion of the 
                                Vincennes
                             Library can be found in Jane Kitchell, "The 
                                Old Vincennes
                             Library," Indiana Magazine of History, XXVIII
                            (December, 1932), 240–46; and Horace Ellis, "The First Library in
                            Indiana," Public Libraries, X (December, 1905),
                            509–12.
               
                     libraries: "The agent to be appointed for the county
                    of 
                        Monroe
                    , shall reserve in his hands ten per centum out of the nett [sic]
                    proceeds of the sales of lots which may be made at the seat of justice of said county for the use of
                    a county library. … "7 The 
                        Monroe County
                     Library was a subscription library, the members of which paid annual fees for the use
                    of books and materials. While Wright was librarian, there were two classes of subscriptions
                    available: "one class who wish [to] take (and so subscribe) books every two weeks shall pay
                    one dollar. The other class who wish to take (and so subscribe) books every four weeks shall pay
                    fifty cents annually for the use of said books."8 Minors were not
                    permitted to subscribe.9 Not until 1848 could women use the library. In that
                    year the board decided that "on Wednesdays from 9 A.M. to 12 [the] Library would be open
                    for the accomodation [sic] of Ladies."10 Hours of
                    access to the library were limited. The librarian was obligated to "attend at the room of
                    the Library on every Saturday for the purpose of delivering out, and receiving in, Books and shall
                    not be compellable to attend on any other days unless at his own choice";11 thus, for at least the first few years of its existence the library was open only on
                    Saturday from 10:00 a.m. to 4:00 p.m.12
            
            As librarian, Wright had certain specified duties: 
                        He shall keep a pair a [sic] regular entry of all Books, Pamphlets, Charts,
                            &c which he may let out or receive into the Library, and deliver the same to the
                            President and Trustees at any time they may require it.
                        It shall be the duty of the Librarian to report all injuries … or otherwise of
                            Books let out by him to the President & Trustees ….
                        It shall be the duty of the Librarian as often as required to lay before the Board a true and
                            perfect list of all books pamphlets Maps &c which shall have been received into the
                            Library, and also a list of all receipts and expenditures of any monies belonging to the
                            Library … and it shall be his duty to number all the books in the library and
                            keep a catalogue of the same for the inspection of those entitled to receive books from the
                            Library.
                        The Librarian … [will] let no Books be out of the Library except he receiving the
                            Certificate for the money paid to the treasurer of said Library, together with an
                            endorsement thereon signed by some good security approved by the Librarian, & that
                            he will be responsible for the same and secure delivery of the book or books.13
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     7 Indiana, Special Acts (1817–1818), 16.
                  
                     8 Record of Trustees, May 22, 1826.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., June 26, 1848.
                  
                     11
                     Ibid., July 3, 1824.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., May 22, 1826.
                  
                     13
                     Ibid., May 31, 1820, July 3, 1824.
               
                     It was also "ordered that the Librarian be authorized
                    to collect all fines imposed by this [library] board."14 The size of
                    the book collection administered by Wright was no larger than a few hundred volumes. By July, 1830,
                    according to one county history, the library had about eight hundred volumes.15
                    Almost nine years later, however, the 
                        Bloomington
                    
                    Post listed only 152 titles in about five hundred volumes.16
            
            While he was librarian, Wright studied law with Judge Craven P. Hester, a 
                        Bloomington
                     attorney, who also had a connection with the 
                        Monroe County
                     Library. Hester was in one instance "appointed as Agent for the Purpose of
                    Purchasing Books …. "17 Reference is also made at one point
                    in the Record of Trustees to "C. P. Hester the Librarys Attorney,"18 and he also served as president of the library board.19
                    Hester's working relationship with Wright on the library board may well have influenced the
                    judge's decision to admit the youthful librarian into his law office for study.
            Wright's interest in law is evident from the following entry in the Record of Trustees for
                    1830: 
                        Ordered that Blackstone's Commentary, and ‘Chitty's
                            Pleadings’ be sold to the highest bidder provided, that they bring the amount of
                            the original cost.
                        Ordered that Joseph A. Wright (having purchased the above books) execute his note with
                            approved security on a credit of twelve months for thirty-two dollars, to the Treasurer of
                            the Library, of which sum fifteen dollars is to draw interest from the date the last sum
                            being for Chittys Pleadings.20
                  
                     Since Wright had acquired his license to practice law in 1829, Blackstone's Commentaries and Chitty's Pleadings would have been
                    useful additions to his personal legal library.21 This entry 
                  
                     14
                     Ibid., November 12, 1829.
                  
                     15 Charles Blanchard, ed., Counties of 
                           Morgan, Monroe
                        
                                and 
                                    Brown
                                , Indiana: Historical and Biographical (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 400.
                  
                     16
                            
                                Bloomington
                            
                            Post, March 15, 1839.
                  
                     17
                            Biographical History of Eminent and Self-Made Men, 11, 247; Record of
                            Trustees, January 8, 1825.
                  
                     18 Record of Trustees, November 12, 1829.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., March 10, 1831.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., February 25, 1830.
                  
                     21 Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches,
                            95. Sir William Blackstone's Commentaries on the Laws of 
                                    England
                                
                      was the most popular book among Indiana's first lawyers and,
                            within a short time of its publication, became the standard reference source on English
                            common law and the basic student textbook. Joseph Chitty's Treatise on
                                Pleading and Parties to Actions was also a common feature of private law libraries.
                            See Michael H. Hams, "The Availability of Books and the Nature of Book Ownership on
                            the Southern Indiana Frontier, 1800–1850" (Ph.D. dissertation, Graduate
                            Library School, Indiana University, 1971), 170–81.
               
                     in the Record appears on February 25, 1830, the same day on
                    which the board accepted the resignation of Wright as librarian.
            When Wright ran for governor in 1849, his humble origins and poor childhood were major issues in his
                    campaign to convince the voters that he was a self-made man worthy and capable of leading the state.
                    His father had died in 1825. In order to support his family he worked in a brickyard and did odd
                    jobs. He also performed various tasks for the state seminary to help cover some of his school
                    expenses. An early biographical study cites university records to show the types of jobs that Wright
                    performed: 
                        Friday, May 6, 1828.
                        
                     Ordered, That Joseph A. Wright be allowed for ringing the college bell,
                            making fires, etc., in the college building during the last session of the College Seminary,
                            the sum of $16.25. …
                        
                     
                                Bloomington
                            , Friday, October 3, 1828.
                        
                     Ordered by the Board of Trustees, That Joseph A. Wright be and he is hereby
                            allowed the sum of one dollar for repairing the top of one of the college chimneys, and that
                            the treasurer pay the same.
                        November 18, 1828.
                        Joseph A. Wright is allowed for repairing arches in the small seminary building and kitchen
                            the sum of $1.25.22
                  
                     In the Record are entries to show that Wright was also a handyman for the library: 
                        Ordered that Joseph A. Wright the Librarian be and he is hereby allowed the sum of five
                            dollars for services rendered in furnishing firewood, oiling books &c for the past
                            year.
                        Ordered by the board that Joseph A. Wright be allowed 62% cents for furnishing
                            five panes of glass and a quire of paper for the use of the library.23
                  
                    
            
            After Wright acquired his law license, he moved from 
                        Bloomington
                     to 
                        Rockville
                     to set up practice, probably in late 1830 or early 1831. On February 25, 1830, the
                    library trustees "ordered that Joseph A. Wright's resignation as Librarian be
                        accepted."24 An entry in the Record on August 3, 1830, implies,
                    however, that Wright had not yet moved from 
                        Bloomington
                     as of that date: 
                        On motion ordered that the Present Librarian be and he is hereby authorised to call on Joseph
                            A. Wright a former Librarian for the following Books, To Wit, Chataubriands Travels one
                            vol., Salmagundi first vol., Miltons Work one vol., 
                        
                           22 Woollen, Biographical and Historical
                                    Sketches, 94–95.
                        
                           23 Record of Trustees, November 22, 1829.
                        
                           24
                                    Ibid., February 25, 1830.
                     
                             Shakespeair 2nd vol, and if Said Wright will not
                            Deliver up Said Books, the Present Librarian is hereby Authorised to bring Suit and Collect
                            the amount of Said books in money from Said Wright.25
                  
                     It seems unlikely that the current librarian would have been "authorised to call
                    on" Wright if he were no longer in 
                        Bloomington
                    .
            This entry in the Record need not be interpreted as meaning that Wright had unlawfully taken these
                    books from the library when he left office. In fact, early librarians were often fiscally
                    responsible for all books in their libraries. The Record itself contains an entry detailing some of
                    the librarians' responsibilities in this regard: "the Librarian [will] report at
                    each meeting of the Board any injury done to any and every book and the person by whom injured, and
                    on failure to report as above he shall be accountable for the injury done."26 Thus the implication of the order "to call on Joseph A. Wright a former
                    Librarian" most likely means that the itemized books were missing from the collection and
                    that Wright had not reported this loss; since Wright had been librarian, he was responsible for the
                    books. The Record does not indicate that this matter was ever brought to suit, and the 
                        Monroe County
                     court records do not indicate that such a suit was ever filed. An examination of the
                    Record reveals that current librarians were frequently authorized by the board to call upon former
                    librarians for missing books.27
            
            The Record of Trustees of the 
                        Monroe County
                     Library provides little-known information about the early public career of Joseph A.
                    Wright. Indeed, details about Wright's tenure as librarian suggest that the future governor
                    had an earlier dedication to public service than has been generally recognized.
            
               
                  25
                        Ibid., August 3, 1830. On the basis of this entry in the Record of Trustees,
                        it appears that Wright was still in 
                            Bloomington
                         in August, 1830. There is no indication that he began his practice of law in 
                            Monroe County
                        , and there is disagreement as to exactly when he moved to 
                            Rockville
                        . Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches, 95, states that
                        Wright moved soon after he obtained his license in 1829. H. W. Beckwith, History of 
                                Vigo
                             and 
                                Parke
                             Counties … (
                            Chicago
                        , 1880), 105, states that Wright arrived in 
                            Rockville
                         no later than 1830. Rebecca A. Shepherd, Charles W. Calhoun, Elizabeth
                        Shanahan-Shoemaker, and Alan F. January, comps. and eds., A Biographical Directory
                            of the Indiana General Assembly, 1816–1899 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1980), 431, gives the date as 1831.
               
                  26 Record of Trustees, May 22, 1826.
               
                  27 Wright himself was authorized to call upon former librarian Addison
                        Smith for missing books. Ibid., December 3, 1827.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Bowen: The Years as Governor. By William J. Watt. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Bierce Associates, Inc., 1981. Pp. [x], 308. Illustrations, appendixes, note on
                    sources, notes, index. $17.95.)
            William J. Watt has written an informative and significant book about Dr. Otis R. Bowen, the only
                    Hoosier ever to serve his state as governor for eight full consecutive years. Watt provides
                    perceptive background regarding the political, economic, Social, and cultural events of the Bowen
                    years. Before serving as an executive assistant to Bowen throughout his two terms, Watt had been a
                    writer and an editor for the Associated Press, then an administrative assistant to Lieutenant
                    Governor Richard Folz in the preceding administration of Governor Edgar D. Whitcomb. Under Bowen,
                    Watt served as news secretary and as liaison for various continuing and miscellaneous projects;
                    these tasks necessitated frequent communication with the chief executive. The book, commenced months
                    before the Bowen tenure ended, is based on party records, newspapers, oral interviews, personal
                    recollections, legislative records, and the Bowen papers. The text is quite readable, but occasional
                    misspelled words perhaps suggest some haste in writing and less copyediting than desirable.
            Watt regards tax restructuring, in order to provide property tax relief, as the cornerstone and key
                    innovation of the Bowen administration. He gives the governor quite favorable marks for his handling
                    of such areas as transportation, energy shortage, natural disasters, coal strikes, and the
                    Department of Natural Resources. Mental health, corrections, state police, and the Alcoholic
                    Beverage Commission are discussed as troubled areas for which results were less successful. Bowen,
                    Watt notes, often viewed accomplishments of the Department of Natural Resources among the top
                    achievements of his administration. For these accomplishments the governor deserves much credit
                    since he delegated substantial authority to Joseph D. Cloud, its capable director, and also approved
                    the continuation of John Hillenbrand, a Democrat who had given outstanding service to previous
                    administrations, as chairman of its two key commissions. Watt's account and evaluations
                    should be extremely useful to historians, although as further information becomes
                    available—including that from other participants—differing versions and
                    conclusions may be expected concerning various issues.
            
            Watt gives considerable attention to Bowen's personal views and qualities. Although quite
                    fond of the governor, Watt is frequently candid in assessing the governor's strengths and
                    his limitations. The author appropriately notes that during recent decades managing Indiana state
                    government has become a demanding and difficult enterprise, but an enterprise vastly different from
                    running a large business. Watt portrays Bowen as a very astute and skillful politician, which he
                    certainly was. He also describes the governor as a somewhat more liberal Republican than most party
                    leaders and as one who sought to enlarge the party's base among the electorate. While this
                    reviewer agrees with Watt that Bowen was an unusually popular governor, probably the most popular
                    one since the pioneer era, in some respects the popularity of Governor William Hendricks,
                    1822–1825, was even more pronounced.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                Donald F. Carmony
         
         
            
               Indian Traders on the Middle Border: The House of Ewing, 1827–54. By
                    Robert A. Trennert, Jr. (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1981. Pp. xiii, 271. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $17.95.)
            While Robert A. Trennert was engaged in research on a previous book, he discovered a significant
                    omission in scholarly literature about federal Indian policy. He learned that the economic and
                    political activities of the firm of W. G. & G. W. Ewing Company, who traded with Indian
                    tribes living in a vast region from Indiana to 
                        Kansas
                    , had been neglected. The study which resulted "is a chronicle of frontier
                    business and political influence" as practiced by the brothers William G. and George W.
                    Ewing; as Trennert carefully states, it is "not a study of Indians" (p. xii).
            The Ewing family moved from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     through 
                        New York
                    's Genesee Valley, 
                        Michigan
                    , and 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Indiana, farming and trading as they went. Alexander Ewing, the patriarch of the clan,
                    settled at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in 1822, built a log store and tavern, and in 1823 purchased land in the center of the
                    city. Soon the firm of A. Ewing & Sons began a thriving Indian trade centered at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . They plunged into this highly competitive business and gradually carved out an
                    increasingly larger share of the trade with the Miami and Potawatomi tribes. Indians debtors settled
                    their accounts at cession treaties when they received cash, annuities, and parcels of land. After
                    1827, when Alexander died, the twenty-five  year-old William
                    managed the company's daily activities while George, twenty-two, traveled throughout the
                    region overseeing the trading posts. In pursuing their fortunes, George and William made enemies,
                    and they ignored pleasure. and leisure. The Ewings had few other options because competitors such as
                    the American Fur Company or later Pierre Chouteau, Jr., & Company would have destroyed them
                    if an opportunity had arisen.
            For ten years William and George Ewing concentrated upon the Indian trade and treaties with the
                    Miamis and Potawatomis of northern Indiana. Government contracts for goods distributed to Indians at
                    cession treaties in the 1820s and 1830s were valued at hundreds of thousands of dollars. Political
                    influence was need to gain a contract, and frequently political manipulation continued until the
                    federal officials signed vouchers redeeming the contract. When the Indian population was removed
                    west of the Mississippi River, the Ewings followed their customers to 
                        Iowa
                     and 
                        Kansas
                     and resumed trading goods for furs and skins of Indian hunters. The hostility of Pierre
                    Chouteau, Jr., and the James K. Polk administration very nearly drove the Ewings from the western
                    Indian trade. The election of Zachary Taylor in 1848, however, restored a more favorable political
                    climate for the Ewings, who then "effectively dictated all aspects of Indian affairs even
                    remotely involving their business." By 1851 the Ewings were "probably the single
                    most influential force in determining federal Indian policy" (p. 175). During these years
                    George spent much of his time in 
                        Washington
                    , fashioning alliances with congressmen, senators, and administrative officials.
            The Ewing brothers, by "profit or plunder," amassed significant fortunes from the
                    Indian trade. When William died in 1854, his estate was valued at $750,000.00, and
                    George's estate at his death in 1866 was worth well over a million dollars. Their business
                    methods were not above reproach. The Ewings were accused of charging the Sac and Fox excessive
                    prices and of falsifying account records, resulting in a reduction of an $84,000.00 claim
                    by 25 percent. This was not an isolated instance. How was it done? George W. Ewing lobbied Congress
                    and the officials of the Ofice of Indian Affairs. Working with friendly agents and superintendents,
                    he pushed through Congress appropriations bills to pay claims and prevent investigations. Indian
                    agents and tribal chiefs were appointed or dismissed to assure favorable treaty terms for Indian
                    traders. If necessary, the traders controlled payments to the tribes, supervised Indian removals
                    west, and represented Indian tribes in negotiations with the federal government. In the Age of  Jackson "All of these activities were regarded as a
                    legitimate part of their ordinary business activity" (p. 207). As Trennert concludes,
                    "it was the Indians who suffered. Neither government policy nor the trading system
                    benefited them. They were unceremoniously removed over and over again until the few survivors were
                    relegated to small, isolated reservations" (p. 209).
            This book contains solid research based upon archival, primary, and secondary sources. It is detailed
                    yet clearly written, and scholars and students of business and Indian history can read it
                    profitably. Trennert has diligently sought out relatively unused sources and significantly enlarged
                    knowledge about the formation and application of federal Indian policy from the 1820s into the
                    1850s.
            
               Purdue University, 
                            West Lafayette
                        
                Donald J. Berthrong
         
         
            
               The Investment Frontier: 
                            New York
                         Businessmen and the Economic Development of the Old Northwest. By John Denis
                    Haeger. (
                        Albany
                    : State University of 
                        New York
                     Press, 1981. Pp. xviii, 311. Illustrations, tables, maps, notes, selected bibliography,
                    index. Clothbound, $39.00; paperbound, $12.95.)
            The author of The Investment Frontier contends "that eastern capitalists,
                    operating from the country's financial centers in 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Boston
                     and from a score of smaller cities, provided the capital and financial expertise that
                    were essential to frontier economic development and the integration of the West into the
                    nation's economy" (p. xi). He proceeds to test this contention by depicting in
                    considerable detail the entrepreneurial careers of three men who helped provide this
                    "eastern connection" for the Old Northwest and other frontier regions in the 1830s
                    and 1840s. These men were Isaac Bronson, his son Arthur Bronson—both of 
                        New York City
                    —and their sometimes close associate, Charles Butler of
                            
                  Geneva, New
                            York
               .
            Combining their own outstanding financial talents with those of a network of carefully selected
                    "agents" in undeveloped but promising frontier regions, these three men provided a
                    conduit for passage of investment capital from East to West. The western regions gained
                    significantly from access to this capital, and those supplying it made a good return (6 to 12
                    percent) on their money. Isaac Bronson was the mentor of the trio. Extremely conservative in his
                    investment strategies, he designed "trust companies" (the 
                        New York
                     Life Insurance and  Trust Company in 1830; the 
                        Ohio
                     Life Insurance and Trust Company in 1834) as devices for pooling available eastern
                    capital for investment in the West. Through the managerial skills of his son Arthur and protege 
                        Butler
                    , these accumulated investment funds helped underwrite the initial development of
                            
                  Toledo, Grand
                        Rapids, Chicago
               , and several other
                    "paper towns" in the Great Lakes region. Equally important, this eastern capital
                    was made accessible to prospective purchasers of farm land in several of the Old Northwest states,
                    including Indiana.
            The writer acknowledges that the Bronsons and 
                        Butler
                     were land speculators, but, as the term applies to them, he dismisses any negative
                    overtones it may have. Despite their keen ability to turn a profit, all were honest, honorable, and
                    judicious men. The elder Bronson is portrayed as an advanced economic thinker, whose views and
                    policies might have helped the American nation avoid the financial pitfalls of the late 1830s if his
                    advice had been heeded. 
                        Butler
                     on occasion was more flamboyant and ready to take risks, but he was very skillful in
                    promoting financial ventures within the context of political realities. He is the Charles Butler who
                    played a prominent role in "settling" Indiana's internal improvements
                    debacle in 1844–1845—after performing a very similar function in the state of 
                        Michigan
                     just a year before.
            Haeger's The Investment Frontier contains much enlightening information
                    relating to the complicated land speculation issue. It is well researched and well written. If there
                    is a criticism, it is that the writer may have pushed his contention beyond the facts arrayed. Were
                    there as many Bronsons and Butlers around the Old Northwest as he suggests? Historians may not know
                    for certain, but after reading this book they may be more on the lookout for them.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Kokomo
                        
                Victor M. Bogle
         
         
            
               Boosters and Businessmen: Popular Economic Thought and Urban Growth in the Antebellum
                        Middle West. By Carl Abbott. (
                  Westport,
                            Conn.
               : Greenwood Press, 1981. Pp. xii,
                    266. Maps, notes, tables, appendixes, bibliography, index. $27.50.)
            The process of town promotion has long attracted students of popular culture. Daniel J. Boorstin,
                    Charles N. Glaab, Richard C. Wade, and many others have ably discussed the ways in which American
                    optimism and ambition found release  in efforts to
                    "boost" western towns. Carl Abbott attempts to join this group with his study of
                    promotional activity in four mid-western cities—
                  Indianapolis, Cincinnati, Chicago
               , and Galena—Auring the boom years
                    1848–1857. Most of this book is concerned with boosterism as "popular economic
                    thought" in the four cities. Although Abbott acknowledges the flamboyant side of booster
                    thinking, he chooses to emphasize a form of town promotion that featured "realistic
                    analysis" of circumstances; those who look for the power of the driving dream will be
                    disappointed. For the rest, he concentrates on the distinctive economic personalities and policies
                    of each of the four cities. 
                        Indianapolis
                     stands out here for its calm and reasonable pursuit of "well-measured economic
                    goals" (p. 1721, the most important one being to make itself the service center for
                    Indiana; the author notes that neither the city nor its state exhibited the aggressive booster
                    spirit evident elsewhere, a point the implications of which he chooses not to explore. In contrast, 
                        Cincinnati
                     comes off badly as a city inhibited by its early success and by the complexities
                    Associated with its maturing urban character. Abbott calls attention to the fact that Galena once
                    considered itself a commercial rival of 
                        Chicago
                    . By the 1850s, however, it had lost out to booming 
                        Chicago
                    , which had succeeded in attracting business talent and capital from the East.
            
               Boosters and Businessmen adds to the knowledge of the urban Middle West. It is not,
                    however, a book which can be recommended to either the general reader or the scholar. In style, it
                    reads like a doctoral dissertation—even though Abbott is credited with three previously
                    published works; it is but a pallid rendering of the enthusiasm and energy that infused one of the
                    most extraordinary periods of growth in American history. More essentially, Abbott has clouded his
                    subject by equating boosterism, Associated with early town formation, with the response of maturing
                    cities to the complexities Associated with maturation. By so doing he has thrown away the
                    opportunity to discuss the evolution of civic entrepreneurship from the days of open opportunities
                    to times when realities were more compelling than dreams. He has compounded this failure by his
                    indifference to the political side of town promotion, particularly the efforts of urban business
                    communities to influence state and federal policy. How, one wonders, can popular economic thought be
                    adequately discussed without reference to the most popular way of forming and implementing public
                    thinking? In sum, this book provides much useful information, but it will disappoint those who are
                    looking for understanding either of the ways that  urban
                    midwesterners viewed their collective selves and futures or of the process of urban growth in
                    America's heartland.
            
               Indiana State University, 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                Edward K. Spann
         
         
            
               Growing Up in the Midwest. Edited by Clarence A. Andrews. (Ames: 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1981. Pp. viii, 214. Illustrations. $12.95.)
            
               Growing Up in the Midwest, edited by Clarence A. Andrews, is a thoughtful, pleasant
                    vaudeville of reminiscences by twenty-two authors, most of whom are alive and still writing. This is
                    a collection that can be picked up in an idle moment or before bed, since the longest selection can
                    be read in ten or fifteen minutes and the shortest is less than a page.
            The Middle West has not had a towering literary figure who has clearly and powerfully defined the
                    region for the world, as William Faulkner has done for the South, for instance. Most of the major
                    American writers of this century, however—Ernest Hemingway, T.S. Eliot, F. Scott
                    Fitzgerald, Willa Cather, Carl Sandburg, Bret Hart, Stephen Crane, Sherwood Anderson, Sinclair
                    Lewis—were born in the region, even if many of them drifted toward 
                        New York
                     or 
                        Paris
                     and wrote often of those places. If the Midwest has not thus emerged in literature in a
                    dramatic, monolithic fashion, that is as it should be for a region so large and diversified.
            Andrews, in his short introduction, shuns a strict geographical definition of the Midwest and instead
                    quotes William Carter's definition of the region as "a home place: sometimes
                    narrowly disapproving, but nurturing and loving, and preserving the style of the era before America
                    moved away to the city" (p. vi). Again and again the selections will remind readers of the
                    importance of this nurturing, of this home place, for these midwesterners as they scattered across
                    the country and the globe. R. V. Cassill, in "An Orbit of Small Towns," uses a
                    metaphor from physics to make the point: "it seems to me we were always headed back toward
                    [the farm which was our home] as we moved away, governed by components of centrifugal and
                    centripetal forces that permitted neither escape nor return" (p. 119).
            The elegiac strain that runs through the collection stops well before it reaches nostalgia. For the
                    most part these articles and stories and poems are convincing, believable, and realistic.  If no unified design emerges from the patchwork quilt of
                    experiences, the individual selections are nonetheless worthwhile.
            Among the best in the collection are the pieces by James Stevens, Edna Ferber, Harry Mark Petrakis,
                    and Hugh Sidey. The Stevens story, "A 
                        Prairie
                     Town," reawakens memories of the camp meetings and wonderful, itinerant frauds
                    that were part of the excitement of a turn-of-the-century prairie community, especially for a
                    latter-day Huck Finn who says that "all of this made a pretty risky environment for me, as
                    I was not naturally a good boy" (p. 22). The Ferber excerpt presents a most moving sketch
                    of a community of German Jews in 
                        Wisconsin
                     on Yom Kippur. Petrakis reveals an unruly, impressionable South 
                        Chicago
                     boy discovering the meaning of his Greek heritage through a Greek grocer who tells him:
                    "You are a bonehead. You don't understand that a whole nation and a people are in
                    this store" (p. 113). Sidey fully recreates the atmosphere of his small-town, family
                    newspaper and the thrill of listening to his favorite sportscaster, Ronald "Dutch"
                    Reagan, who "could make dull games bubble" (p. 157).
            Andrews's sometimes lengthy headnotes for the authors are useful, if of uneven quality. (The
                    ugly flower design used to begin the headnotes is balanced by the most attractive dust-cover.)
                    Cultural historians of the Middle West will be particularly interested in the fine historical
                    photographs which accompany the stories.
            
               Centre College, 
                     Danville, Ky.
                  
                Milton Reigelman
         
         
            
               Two Hundred Years at the Falls of the 
                            Ohio
                        : A History of 
                            Louisville
                         and 
                            Jefferson County
                        
               . By George H. Yater. (
                        Louisville
                    : Heritage Corporation of 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Jefferson County
                    , 1979. Pp. 250. Illustrations, maps, index. $16.95.)
            
               Notes to Two Hundred Years at the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    : A History of 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Jefferson County
                    . By George H. Yater. (
                        Louisville
                    : Heritage Corporation of 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Jefferson County
                    , 1979. Paperbound, $3.50.)
            Touted as "the first comprehensive history of its kind since 1896 … [and] an
                    entertaining and informative journey down the main channel of two centuries of development"
                    (dust jacket), this work was written under the auspices of the 
                        Louisville
                     Area Chamber of Commerce and funded by a 
                        Louisville
                     bank as a bicentennial commemorative of the chartering of 
                    
                        Louisville
                     and the creation of 
                        Jefferson County
                    . The author, a 
                        Louisville
                     native, sought to explain "the dynamics of change" and "to
                    avoid romanticizing the past into something it was not" (preface).
            The reader might not be certain, however, what to make of this work. The dimensions of the book and
                    its ample illustrations suggest, on the one hand, a pictorial history intended for a coffee table or
                    a waiting room; that is, for casual reading. Unfortunately, the quality of photographic reproduction
                    is uneven, and there is a paucity of maps to assist the nonlocal reader in understanding such
                    matters as election patterns and neighborhood growth. Out of the several hundred illustrations,
                    moreover, only about thirty deal specifically with women, blacks, or laborers. The bulk of the
                    illustrations treat architectural and business history. Tables depicting population trends and
                    election results would also have been helpful.
            On the other hand, one suspects that the author intended to write an amply illustrated historical
                    treatise. That effort is deficient for several reasons. The book fails to examine systematically the
                    factors making for urbanization in the region; for example, the structure and dynamics of leadership
                    or the evolution of neighborhoods. The author writes anecdotally and provides a number of
                    fascinating stories about such episodes as the disputed election and nativist riot of 1855 but
                    offers generally sketchy and loosely organized treatment of most issues. For example, the author
                    devotes four lines to Charles Jacob, whom he defines—without explanation—as
                    the city's most popular mayor, and surprisingly does not explain the development of the 
                        Louisville
                     Chamber of Commerce. There is also a lack of balance here. Most of the work treats 
                        Louisville
                    , not 
                        Jefferson County
                    . Some vital subjects are given short shrift. In the chapter on the 1930s, for instance,
                    labor history is given four lines, half that afforded the local symphony. Two brief paragraphs touch
                    upon Social changes produced by World War 11. Only seven pages treat the crucial years
                    1945–1960, in which the rise of suburbs and the change in corporate control were making
                    significant alterations in the nature of local decision-making. This reader also finds unusual the
                    publication of a separate volume of footnotes, which the author states could not be included in the
                    history that he wrote. This work does not, in short, explain much about "the dynamics of
                    change." It offers little more than a series of glimpses into the local past of 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Jefferson County
                    .
            
               Indiana State University 
                            Evansville
                        
                Darrel E. Bigham
         
         
         
            
               Slaves to No One: A History of 'the Holy Trinity Catholic Community in 
                            Indianapolis
                         on the Diamond Jubilee of the Founding of Holy Trinity Parish. By James J.
                    Divita. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Holy Trinity Parish, in cooperation with the Ethnic History Project, Indiana
                    Historical Society, 1981. Pp. xi, 135. Illustrations, maps, appendixes, notes, sources, index.
                    Paperbound, $7.50.)
            Significant anniversaries of Indiana's Catholic parishes usually result in the publication
                    of commemorative books. Within these books the parish priest or an amateur local historian presents
                    a brief account of parish history. Slaves to No One represents a distinct
                    departure from these customary anniversary publications. James J. Divita is a professor of history
                    at Marian College, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and his book is a full-scale, professional effort.
            Holy Trinity parish and the Haughville neighborhood that it served were both products of industrial
                    growth in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . By the turn of this century foundry and other factory industries attracted European
                    immigrants seeking work. The Holy Trinity community consisted of Slovene immigrants, South Slavs
                    from the northwest corner of the Balkan peninsula. Divita traces the Social and economic forces
                    leading to Slovene migration to America and specifically examines the immigrants' arrival
                    in Haughville. The clear majority of the immigrants had been peasants in Slovenia and became
                    blue-collar laborers in Haughville's industries.
            Holy Trinity emerged after a rift with a nearby Irish parish that the Slovenes had first attended.
                    Within his detailed history of Holy Trinity parish, Divita presents biographical sketches of the
                    priests and nuns who contributed to the church's spiritual and physical growth. He properly
                    places the church within the context of the immigrant neighborhood it served; thus, he includes the
                    Social history of Holy Trinity's immigrant and American-born members. Divita discusses
                    their factory occupations, small businesses, fraternal Societies, housing, diet, customs, and family
                    life in Haughville. He concludes with an examination of changes in Holy Trinity's mission
                    as Slovene-Americans left Haughville in the face of black and southern-white migration into the
                    aging neighborhood.
            Divita's book touches some of the major themes in Indiana's urban, ethnic, and
                    religious history. Slaves to No One is a first-rate effort.
            
               Calumet College, Whiting, Ind. Edward A. Zivich
         
         
         
            
               The George Rogers Clark Adventure in the 
                            Illinois
                         and Selected Documents of the American Revolution at the Frontier Posts. By
                    Kathrine Wagner Seineke. (
                        New Orleans
                    : Polyanthos, 1981. Pp. xxxvii, 649. Illustrations, notes, maps, index.
                    $25.00.)
            The author has spent many years compiling documents for this volume, an evident labor of love. Her
                    subject is rich in plot and subplot. Idiosyncratically organized, and neither systematic nor
                    comprehensive, this book unfortunately serves no imaginable readership and obeys few canons of
                    historical scholarship or good writing.
            It is difficult to describe this work. Its title suggests a history; yet, its text is neither a new
                    or full account of George Rogers Clark, of his Revolutionary War activity, nor of the war on the
                    frontier. It adds no new synthesis to what has been available in the older works of James A. James
                    or William H. English or newer ones of Jack M. Sosin or popular works of John Bakeless, Dale Van
                    Every, or this reviewer.
            Three fourths of the volume consists of documents, many long in print or already thoroughly mined,
                    except, perhaps, for the little used Haldiman papers from the "British Library"
                        [sic]. This would seem to call for Seineke to be listed as editor rather than
                    author. As author, she has written five chapters of text. In addition, Professor Robert M. Sutton,
                    University of 
                        Illinois
                    , has provided, fortunately, an introduction that is an orderly overview. A curious
                    addition to this medley is a study by a 
                        St. Louis
                     attorney, Anton J. Pregaldin, identifying 118 signers of the oath Clark required of
                    French villagers at Vin-cennes.
            As the author wends her antiquarian way discursively from one topic to another, her allusive text
                    leaves one wondering what her subject is. The bulk of the book that is devoted to documents is not
                    without interest, but the documents cry out for proper editing. Many selections are peripheral and
                    irrelevant, a strange intermingling in chronological order of disparate subjects ranging from
                    Clark's activities to baptisms, property transfers among 
                        Mississippi
                     villagers, and litigation between traders and suppliers. One finds surprisingly little
                    of substance about the lives of ordinary people despite the author's claim of research
                    "on the grass roots level" (p. ix). In one instance the editor astonishingly
                    admits to rearranging the paragraphs from an item reprinted from the Magazine of
                        American History (pp. 545–52).
            
            Format is awkward. Editorial comment, where it is supplied, is often irrelevant and typographically
                    indistinguishable from the documentary text. Documents are numbered by the author and cite unique
                    abbreviations of the author's own devising. A list of abbreviations serves as bibliography,
                    mixing manuscript collections, printed sources, and secondary works. To criticism of content and
                    format, one must add an inadequate index. The text is photographically reproduced in unattractive
                    typescript, notwithstanding handsome outer covers and a big price.
            The author has not shaped a disciplined work from her trove. A reader who spends time with this
                    "book" will make as big a mistake as the author and publisher made in presenting
                    it in this form.
            
               Butler University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                George M. Waller
         
         
            
               The Righteous Remnant: The House of David. By Robert S. Fogarty.
                            (
                  Kent, Ohio
               : 
                        Kent
                     State University Press, 1981. Pp. xiii, 195. Illustrations, appendixes, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $17.50.)
            I suppose that there are probably very few midwesterners, middle-aged and older, who do not have at
                    least a few memories of the House of David in 
                        Benton
                     Harbor, 
                        Michigan
                    . For my mother, a native of Grand Haven, 
                        Michigan
                    , it is a charming recollection of several Saturday afternoons spent at the
                    community's amusement park. For my father, who grew up in 
                  Holland, Michigan
               , it is a series of action-filled stories about the prowess of the
                    community's bearded baseball players as they barnstormed across this part of the country
                    taking on all comers. From my own perspective, the athletic image is also most vivid, but by the
                    time that I got to see bearded shortstops and long-haired first basemen, all of the
                    community's operations had fallen on hard times. Indeed, as Robert S. Fogarty points out in
                    graphic detail, by the mid-1920s the House of David had become the subject of several state
                    government investigations and legal actions which tended to make midwesterners forget
                    merry-go-rounds and well-hit line drives and to remember lurid tales of strange sexual practices.
            In The Righteous Remnant Fogarty, who teaches history at Antioch College and is
                    currently editor of the Antioch Review, makes the first scholarly attempt to
                    assess the historical importance of this religious communal Society within the larger context of an
                    Anglo-Israelite millennia1 tradition that he traces  back to
                    seventeenth-century 
                        England
                    . His case is a convincing one. Beginning with a well-written introductory chapter
                    entitled "Prophetic Tradition," Fogarty succeeds in placing the founders of the
                    House of David, Benjamin and Mary Purnell, in a line of prophets who reqeived special impetus from
                    the career of the late-eighteenth-century English mystic Joanna Southcott. Indeed, the religious
                    leap from Southcott's preaching to 
                        Benton
                     Harbor in 1903, the year that the Purnells established their Zion in southwestern 
                        Michigan
                    , is not very great at all—at least not for the one thousand believers who
                    signed the House of David compact between 1903 and 1930, people convinced that the
                    Purnells' "kingdom" was the place for the elect to assemble. As Fogarty
                    puts it, "Benjamin Purnell's spiritual empire … [would] create and
                    sustain its earthly dimension with a skillful blend of evangelism, entertainment, hard work, prayer,
                    and maybe just some sex now and then" (p. 41).
            During this twenty-seven-year period the House of David was certainly a "
                        Shiloh
                     at 
                        Benton
                     Harbor," as the author indicates in the book's best chapter. Here in
                    this flourishing Lake Michigan port city, a center for the expanding
                    fruit-growing economy of the entire region, the Purnells and their Israelites, as the
                    community's members were known, established a celibate, communal Society whose members
                    exchanged their worldly goods for the promise of eternal salvation.
            From an economic perspective the House of David was a marked success. Income from farms, a canning
                    company, and an amusement park contributed to the community's prosperity. In the years
                    after World War I, however, stories told by defectors about oppressive conditions in the Society,
                    group marriages, financial malpractice, and, most significantly, charges of sexual misconduct
                    directed against Benjamin Purnell, resulted in a long-drawn-out series of legal actions against the
                    community and its founders. By the late 1920s Purnell was dead of tuberculosis, and the
                    colony's members had split into two factions, one led by Mary Purnell until her death in
                    1953. In the early 1980s the two factions, with a combined membership of fifty, still survive.
            Rather than leaving the reader with the remnant of the remnant, Fogarty concludes with a brief essay
                    in which he attempts to tie in the House of David with more recent examples of this unique form of
                    Social compact, including David Berg's Children of God and Jim Jones's erratic
                    career, which took him from Lynn, Indiana, to the jungles of 
                        Guyana
                    . When seen from this perspective, the Purnells and their followers do not seem as
                    strange as one might think.
            
            Fogarty's study is based on the first thorough examination of the House of David collection
                    in the 
                        Michigan
                     Historical Commission, as well as research in court records, colony literature,
                    correspondence, and appropriate secondary sources. For the benefit of those readers who may wish to
                    delve deeper into the House of David's unique history or to compare it with that of other
                    religious colonies, he has added three appendixes that include important biographical and
                    theological data. The author has handled this range of material quite well, especially in building
                    his interpretive framework for the Purnells' community.
            The only error that stands out is a reference to "Grand Rapids Congressman M. L.
                    Hamilton" (M. L. on p. 94, R. L. on p. 97!) who is actually E. L. Hamilton from Niles,
                    south of 
                        Benton
                     Harbor. Congressman Hamilton also fails to appear in the index, which seems to have
                    been thrown together as an afterthought. These are minor caveats about a book that certainly adds
                    only more luster to Fogarty's reputation as one of our best authorities on American utopian
                    communities.
            
                    Ball State University, 
                            Muncie
                        
               
                    Warren Vander Hill
                
         
         
            
               The Flavor of 
                            Wisconsin
                        : An Informal History of Food and Eating in the Badger State, Together with 400
                        Favorite Recipes. By Harva Hachten. (
                        Madison
                    : State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1981. Pp. viii, 363. Map, notes, illustrations, selected bibliography, indexes.
                    $14.95.)
            The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                     achieved this entertaining volume by requesting from its members recipes that would
                    reflect the ethnic variety of their state's past. Carefully avoiding the temptation to
                    include convenience-food concoctions among the ingredients, the result is four hundred basic dishes
                    that show the varied diet of the upper Midwest. Breads, meats, and desserts predominate, along with
                    the products of the state's farms and forests. North European and Yankee influences are
                    clear, but so are those of many minorities from native American to Oriental. Often retaining the
                    idiom of the contributors, the result is an interesting heritage cookbook.
            Hachten introduces this collection with a hundred-page essay on 
                        Wisconsin
                    's dietary heritage. She moves from the wilderness environment to modern times,
                    although the emphasis is upon the nineteenth century. Most of the nine chapters draw heavily upon
                    settler and traveler accounts from the Draper collections. Anecdotes, menus, folk wisdom, and ethnic
                         memories predominate, although the author does a nice job
                    of evaluating the ways cookbooks themselves have standardized modern diet.
            Readers may be less pleased with the way Hachten bridges the gap between early and modern ideas of
                    food. Drawing heavily upon Draper's work, for example, the author spends an entire chapter
                    on folk medicine. It is a legitimate topic, given its foodstuff ingredients, but it is a topic
                    subsequently ignored in the recipe section. Other meals and dishes described in the early chapters
                    suffer the same fate. There is clearly much more that could be done with the history of midwestern
                    food, but this volume does serve as an informal, popular introduction.
            
               Butler University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                George W. Geib
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Kenosha
                         Retrospective: A Biographical Approach. Edited by Nicholas C. Burckel and John
                    A. Neuenschwander. (
                  Kenosha, Wis.
               : Kenosha County Bicentennial
                    Commission, 1981. Pp. xvi, 384. Illustrations, notes, appendixes, index. $10.00.)
            Remember Zalmon G. Simmons, the nineteenth-century 
                        Kenosha
                     mattress mogul and billiard player? What a knack he had for making money. Simmons was
                    forty-seven and already wealthy when he and nine employees opened his mattress factory in 1875. By
                    1910, when he died, the Simmons Company employed nearly two thousand and had sales of $5
                    million. Charles W. Nash, the autodidactic 
                        Kenosha
                     automobile magnate, made money too. He worked with David Buick and Walter Chrysler in 
                        Michigan
                    , was president of General Motors, and then formed his own company in 1916. Nash Motors
                    made $29 million in 1928. Nash himself formed a "Ke-Nash-A' Social club
                    for his employees in 1920 but locked them out in 1933 for quibbling about wages. (Would a
                    Simmons-Nash merger have led to sleeping cars?)
            The piece on Simmons by John Andreas, Jr., and on Nash by Thomas J. Noer, are just two of the nine
                    essays in this nicely produced, bargain-priced book. Partly subsidized from the sale of a 1976
                        Kenosha County history, edited by John A. Neuenschwander for the
                    county's Bicentennial Commission, this "biographical approach," which
                    omits women and many others because of "the absence of sufficient source
                    materials" (p. viii), focuses on five other local boys who made good besides Simmons and
                    Nash: Charles Durkee, a midnineteenth-century state and national Free Soiler and Republican (by John
                    W.  Bailey); C. Fred Stemm, a local politico and Knights of
                    Labor member (by Don Jensen); Conrad Shearer, a conservative state senator and spokesman for the 
                        Kenosha
                     Manufacturers Association (KMA) (by Thomas C. Reeves); Felix Olkives, the forty-year
                    painters' union president, Trades and Labor Council president, then KMA public relations
                    man, then AFL-CIO Council president (by Leon Applebaum); and George Molinaro, the progressive state
                    assembly speaker and forty-five-year automobile worker (by John D. Buenker). Two institutional
                    biographies are also included: Richard H. Keehn's piece on the Snap-On Tool Company, and
                    Angela Howard Zophy's chronicle of UAW Local 72, which reminds readers that, contrary to
                    the subtitle of Noer's chapter on Nash, there are no "self-made" men.
            Two of the authors are reporters for the 
                        Kenosha
                    
                    News; the others, and the book's editors, work at a local state
                    university and a private college. Overall, they do a nice job of placing their subjects in the
                    context of local history (though not in historiography) and in relating local to national events.
                    Some uncritically celebrate. The book can be ordered from the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    -Parkside's Archives and Area Research Center in 
                  Kenosha, Wisconsin
                53141.
            
               State Historical Society of 
                     Wisconsin, Madison
                  
                Michael
                    A. Gordon
         
         
            
               Populism, Progressivism, and the Transformation of 
                            Nebraska
                         Politics, 1885–1915. By Robert W. Cherny. (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, for Center for Great Plains Studies, 1981. Pp. xviii, 227. Maps, tables,
                    figures, appendixes, notes, selected bibliography, index. $17.50.)
            Although numerous works consider the political turmoil of the 1890s, this study is one of only a few
                    that systematically evaluate Populism's development, its relationship with progressivism,
                    and its role in transforming the political system. Robert W. Cherny divides the years
                    1885–1915 into four periods with breaking points at 1890, 1896, and 1904. Each period is
                    discussed in two chapters. The first describes the issues, campaigns, and personalities; the second
                    includes a relatively sophisticated analysis of voting behavior and summaries of leadership and the
                    political system. Before 1890 Republicans dominated 
                        Nebraska
                    , affiliation was based on ethnocultural factors, and prohibition was the most divisive
                    issue. This system was substantially modified by the emergence of Populism—an economic
                    movement which cut across ethnocultural lines and was 
                    attractive to persons in poorer, rural areas. Populist support also had a pietist tinge, but, Cherny
                    astutely argues, this was largely because those poorer farmers who strongly opposed liquor control
                    remained wedded to the Democratic party.
            Populist-Democratic fusion became official policy in 1896, and this coalition of economic and
                    ethnocultural interests controlled 
                        Nebraska
                     government until 1900. Renewed agricultural prosperity and agitation over prohibition
                    then led many poorer, pietist farmers back to the GOP. Republican ascendancy was short-lived,
                    however, for after 1905 the party split into competing factions. Democratic divisions were less
                    serious, and the Democrats' emphasis on economic and political reform, opposition to
                    moralistic legislation, and successful organization of old Populists began an era of Democratic
                    control lasting until 1918.
            Cherny closely examines the ancestry of progressivism in both major parties and the Progressive
                    party. In general, he finds that economic distress motivated supporters of Populism and of a faction
                    in each major party; that there was very little overlap in the leadership; and that Populist
                    economic proposals differed greatly from progressive emphasis on regulation of business and
                    individual behavior.
            Cherny's study is important and insightful, but its elements are not equally impressive. His
                    analysis of voting behavior is instructive; yet, his failure to consider turnout and his basic
                    reliance on county data (and not even from all counties) raise questions. Furthermore, while the
                    discussion of the 1880s considers religion, later analysis uses only ethnic variables. Finally,
                    although Cherny makes some worthwhile points about leadership and the political system, his analysis
                    is brief and largely superficial. These criticisms are caveats, however, not major objections, for
                    Cherny has demonstrated his primary points and written an important work.
            
               Purdue University, 
                            West Lafayette
                        
                Philip R. VanderMeer
         
         
            
               Working with History: The Historical Records Survey in 
                            Louisiana
                         and the Nation, 1936–1942. By Burl Noggle. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1981. Pp. ix, 139. Notes, appendix, bibliographical note.
                    $14.95.)
            Though the Historical Records Survey (HRS) was one of the most popular relief programs designed by
                    the Franklin D. Roosevelt administration during the Depression, it has received surprisingly little
                    attention from the historical profession. This neglect seems especially curious since the project
                    was intended  to salvage and make accessible a vast body of
                    public records presumably of great interest and importance to historians. The American Historical
                    Association established a Public Archives Commission as early as 1899 in response to concern about
                    the treatment of public records; yet, the HRS and the work it achieved have been virtually ignored
                    since 1942. The appearance of Burl Noggle's essay on the HRS in 
                        Louisiana
                     is therefore a hopeful sign that interest among historians in this program is on the
                    rise.
            The Historical Records Survey was formally established in January, 1936, as an agency of the Federal
                    Writers' Project (FWP), one of four arts projects sponsored by the Works Progress
                    Administration (WPA). HRS gained separate status from FWP in November, 1936. Its purpose was
                    twofold. First, it was to provide jobs for white-collar workers, 85 percent of whom had to be on the
                    relief rolls. Second, it was to locate, preserve, organize, inventory, and make accessible the
                    public records of state and local governments. It accomplished both these aims, according to Noggle,
                    rather admirably. In its six-year existence, it gave work to several thousand unemployed, salvaged
                    countless records, and produced almost two thousand publications, mostly inventories of municipal,
                    county, and state archives. It did so, moreover, without the controversy that surrounded the other
                    arts projects. This was possible in part because HRS, maintains Noggle, was a manifestation of the
                    cultural regionalism "that coursed through American culture and scholarship in the
                    1930s" (p. 54).
            HRS units were established in all forty-eight states plus 
                        New York City
                     and the 
                        District of Columbia
                    . One of the best and most successful of these units, according to Noggle, was the one
                    in 
                        Louisiana
                    . It produced "some of the best county inventories ever published" (p.
                    56). To demonstrate this point Noggle includes in a sixty-page appendix selected contents from the
                        St. Bernard Parish Inventory, published in December, 1938. A review of these
                    excerpts does indeed confirm Noggle's judgment as to the quality of the inventories, or at
                    least this inventory, produced by 
                        Louisiana
                    .
            Noggle's essay is brief (only seventy-five pages), perhaps too brief for the goals he has
                    set for himself; namely, to offer a case study of a New Deal relief program and to suggest how this
                    nation looked at its history in the 1930s. As a case study, Working with History
                    suffers from a lack of breadth and scope. The narrative focuses too narrowly on the
                    program's administration and administrators and not enough on its operation and  its workers. It is the traditional view of history from the top. The
                    reader is left wondering who were the people who salvaged and inventoried the records, how did they
                    go about their work, how did they look upon their work, and whak became of them when the program
                    fell victim to the war effort. As a case study, therefore, Noggle's essay is incomplete;
                    hence, it is only partly successful.
            Noggle succeeds more fully in communicating the state of mind among historians and others toward the
                    study of American history in the 1930s. The HRS county studies, along with the FWP state studies,
                    enjoyed a large measure of popularity, according to Noggle, because they were a manifestation of the
                    growing interest among citizens in defining and evaluating what it was to be an American,
                    particularly in the face of the threats of economic collapse and fascism. The public records of
                    America's past were certainly critical to this evaluation process, and Noggle makes this
                    point well.
            In addition to the essay and the appendix, the book contains a brief but helpful bibliographical
                    note; regrettably, it does not contain an index. The author has produced a very thoughtful and
                    well-researched study, one, it is hoped, that will inspire similar efforts in other states.
            
               Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Robert K. O'Neill
         
         
            
               Andrew Jackson and the Course of American Freedom, 1822–1832. Volume
                    11. By Robert V. Remini. (
                        New York
                    : Harper & Row, Publishers, 1981. Pp. xvi, 469. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $20.00.)
            Few presidents, before or since, have seized the public imagination as much as Andrew Jackson.
                    Generations of some of the best historians in America have used their talents to explain Old
                    Hickory's influence. Now, Robert V. Remini, a leading Jackson scholar, proposes a major
                    reinterpretation of his subject's life. In this second volume of a planned trilogy, he
                    advances the story over the ten-year period from Jackson's retirement as governor of 
                        Florida
                     in 1822 through his reelection as president.
            The central theme of the book is the conflict between corruption and liberty in America. By
                    corruption, says Remini, Jackson and his supporters meant not only venality, but misuse of
                    government power against freedom. Indeed, the author contends, James Monroe's
                    administration "was perhaps one of the most corrupt in the early history of the 
                        United States
                    " (p. 15).  Instead of the Era of Good
                    Feelings, the period ought to be called the Era of Corruption. From the president and the Cabinet
                    down to officials in the states, there were shocking revelations of malfeasance in government, which
                    angered and frightened honest people. Over and over Remini hammers at his thesis, and in
                    overstressing it he makes it dubious. The election of 1824 was a struggle over "liberty,
                    public virtue, and centralized power in the federal government" (p. 80); Jackson's
                    victory four years later affirmed the public's "demand for the restoration of
                    morality and virtue to civic life, and a reform of those practices that had corrupted officials,
                    expanded government, and endangered freedom" (p. 148). Other issues—the bank,
                    internal improvements, the tariff, even slavery—Remini believes were secondary. Whether
                    the Era of Good Feelings was as corrupt, or the Jacksonians as virtuous, as Remini concludes is open
                    to challenge. After all, whereas John Quincy Adams's Tobias Watkins absconded with
                    $7,000 from the Treasury, Jackson's collector of customs at 
                        New York
                    , Samuel Swartwout, made off with over a million.
            This is an interesting and important book. Remini has benefited from the advances in Jacksonian
                    scholarship since publication of Marquis James's two-volume biography and Arthur
                    Schlesinger, Jr.'s Age of Jackson. In addition to the expanded secondary
                    literature, the author has profitably used the documentary collections now available, especially the
                    Jackson papers at the Hermitage.
            The most unfortunate aspect of the volume is its prose. Remini obviously wants to establish rapport
                    with the reader through a conversational style. He achieves that, but at the cost of craftsmanship
                    and grace in his writing. It seems unnecessary, for Remini is ordinarily a very fine writer. Despite
                    this, Andrew Jackson and the Course of American Freedom is a valuable contribution
                    to Jacksonian historiography.
            
               Dartmouth College, 
                     Hanover, N.H
                  
               . Kenneth R. Stevens
         
         
            
               American Farmers: The New Minority. By Gilbert C. Fite. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1981. Pp. ix, 265. Table, illustrations, notes, index.
                    $19.50.)
            Gilbert C. Fite's volume is one in a series on Minorities in Modern
                    America, edited by Warren F. Kimball and David Edwin Harrell, Jr. In discussing the transition
                    of farming activity from majority to minority status in the American economy, primarily since 1920,
                    the author focuses on the productivity  factors which led to
                    this change and the efforts by farmers and their political spokesmen to counteract these forces.
                    While his approach is essentially that of an institutional historian, he is concerned, perhaps
                    fundamentally, by the shifting national priority perceptions evidenced in the growing dominance of
                    consumer interests during the past twenty years. His somewhat startling conclusion is that,
                    "In all likelihood, the nation's agrarian heritage will lose most of its
                    significance and meaning within another generation" (pp. 240–41).
            Fite has directed his survey primarily to the general reader, rather than to specialists in
                    agriculture, economics, politics, or agricultural history. He presents an excellent synthesis which
                    academicians, also, may find highly useful in surveying overall trends of agricultural development
                    and governmental policy relating to it. His first two chapters afford chronological and regional
                    background summaries of the setting as small-farm America moved out of the "Golden
                    Era" that ended with World War I. The body of the text centers upon the subsequent agrarian
                    organizational effort in pursuit of governmental assistance, the legislative relief programs as
                    revised to date, the management changes that marked the survival of commercial and agribusiness
                    operators while more traditionally diversified competitors were squeezed out, and finally the
                    "boom-bust" experience of the 1970s, which led the less than 5 percent of the
                    population remaining in agriculture to hone, through "tractorcades," new skills in
                    minority, special interest politics.
            The author finds that the power of farmers through the period of mounting crisis has remained
                    "fragmented not only among commercial producers, but between large farmers and small
                    part-time operators" (p. 241). Increasingly, also, they have felt a closer identity with
                    the interests of business than with those of labor. For a century or longer, however, they have
                    derived their strongest support from the mystique of rural ideals and value systems cherished by a
                    Society that no longer had "to make a living on the farm" (p. 238). What will be
                    the effect, Fite queries, as those emotions and traditions fade?
            Fite is too sound an economic historian to discountenance the trend toward commercial viability, but
                    his personal sentiments are seldom far removed from the tenets he denominates as
                    "agricultural fundamentalism." He defends agricultural colleges in their emphasis
                    upon farm productivity on the ground that they "never viewed their role as that of a Social
                    agency" (p. 187) to aid small farmers in making a living; yet he argues  that "different tax, credit, and price-support policies
                    … a generation earlier" might have retarded the concentration of farm ownership
                    evident today (pp. 220–21). He repeatedly laments that "farmers did not possess
                    that most basic right in business of being able to set the price of their product to cover costs and
                    also leave something for labor and return on investment" (p. 236). He never recognizes that
                    generations of marginal businessmen in all lines of endeavor have been driven out of the competitive
                    market for want of the same "basic right."
            
               University of 
                     Kentucky,
                                Lexington
                  
                Mary W. M.
                Hargreaves
         
         
            
               The Rise of Literacy and the Common School in the 
                            United States
                        : A Socioeconomic Analysis to 1870. By Lee Soltow and Edward Stevens. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1981. Pp. xii, 247. Figures, tables, illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    Paperbound, $20.00.)
            According to Lee Soltow and Edward Stevens, the common school was a potent force in reducing
                    illiteracy and promoting Social mobility in nineteenth-century America. Together with newspaper
                    editors and a wide range of publishers, whose livelihood presupposed a literate citizenry, educators
                    prepared youth for a world increasingly dominated by print. Even though Horace Mann and other
                    reformers exaggerated the economic benefits of becoming literate, illiteracy soon became a
                    Socioeconomic handicap. By 1870 illiterates could still rise economically, but "the chances
                    of greater upward mobility were better for the literate person" (p. 194); hence, schooling
                    was neither irrelevant nor inconsequential.
            In tracing the rise of literacy and common schooling, the authors synthesize a diverse body of
                    secondary literature and present a considerable amount of original research. Few historians will
                    quarrel with the argument that religious values stimulated literacy in colonial America, that the
                    founding fathers lauded education for its civic potential, or that common-school reformers shared a
                    world view shaped by evangelical Protestantism. Even some of the sophisticated quantitative analyses
                    in this volume produce predictable conclusions: that wealthier people owned more books than the poor
                    and that population concentration greatly enhanced and nurtured literacy.
            One of the most enlightening sections of the book examines how literacy was actually transmitted in
                    the schools. The authors skillfully survey reading, writing, and spelling in the  nineteenth-century school, and they conclude that many children who
                    regularly attended were literate in reading and writing by age nine. As schools became the major
                    agency for the promotion of literacy by midcentury, they therefore assumed greater significance in
                    preparing youth for adult responsibilities. However perilous the practice has been historically,
                    employers increasingly used level of school attendance as a guide to actual academic competence.
                    Schooling gradually became a convenient way to sort children for occupational roles. For those who
                    received less formal education than others—whether because of family responsibilities or
                    other variables related to residence or personal background—the schools must have seemed
                    to be one more impediment to success in America. By analyzing a diverse array of historical
                    materials—such as estate inventories and census materials—Soltow and Stevens
                    have produced a well-written and closely reasoned volume that will become a standard source in the
                    history of American education. They have successfully highlighted the positive role of schooling in
                    promoting Social mobility without overlooking the persistent inequalities that pervaded both school
                    and Society.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                William J. Reese
         
      
      
         
         
         
      
   
