
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 22, Issue 1, pages 1-100. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:22+issue:1+year:1926&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Admission of Indiana Into the Union of States
            By JAMES A. WOODBURN
            
            Read at the Annual Meeting of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , December 11, 1925.
            It was 109 years ago today that the final step was taken admitting Indiana into
                    the Sisterhood of States. She was the nineteenth state, the sixth to be admitted
                    after the adoption of the Constitution.
            As we all know, there were thirteen states to start with, counting the belated 
                        North Carolina
                     and 
                        Rhode Island
                    . The Constitution had been in operation almost two years before 
                        Rhode Island
                     came in under it. 
                        Rhode Island
                     had no representative in the constitutional convention of 1787 and
                    she was seldom represented in the old Congress of the Confederation. She was a
                    "land of the otherwise minded."
            Indiana came in eagerly enough, and after the usual fashion. There was a regular
                    way for making states out of territories. Congress by an Organizing Act had
                    previously organized the Territory, laying out its metes and bounds and
                    providing a civil government for its people with a certain amount of local self
                    government, more or less. This Organizing Act was the constitution of the
                    Territory and was subject to change, or revision, by Congress at any time. Such
                    a constitution was not the people's own, but was imposed upon the
                    Territory by the power of Congress. Such a form of government is, however, a
                    grade higher than military government or some absolute system which is first
                    exercised over conquered or ceded territory.
            
            When conditions seem to justify it, the people of the Territory, through their
                    Territorial Assembly, petition for statehood. If Congress is well disposed, that
                    body passes an Enabling Act, authorizing, or enabling, the people of the
                    Territory to elect representatives to a constitutional convention which is
                    charged with the duty of drawing up a constitution for the prospective state.
                    This constitution is submitted for the approval of Congress and if it is found
                    acceptable, being republican in form, the two houses of Congress pass an act, or
                    joint resolution, admitting the state. When this act is signed by the President
                    the deed is done.
            This is the regular process made and provided for admitting a state. There have
                    been exceptions. 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Maine
                     were exceptions. These territories did not belong to the 
                        United States
                    . They belonged to 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Massachusetts
                    , respectively, and these mother states set them off and enabled
                    them to become independent states. Congress had nothing to do with the process
                    but to pass the final resolution of admission.
            
               
                        Texas
                     was an exception. For nine years she was the "Lone Star
                    Republic" and a joint resolution of the two Congresses brought about
                    the union of the two Republics, which we have always called
                    "annexation."
            
               
                        California
                     was an exception. There the people rushed their state-making as
                    they did their gold hunting. Under the protection and encouragement of the
                    military governor, General Riley, they elected delegates to a convention and
                    drew up a constitution, and their new state came knocking full fledged for
                    admission at the doors of Congress. There was no Organizing Act or Enabling Act
                    on the part of Congress, which displeased Calhoun very much, since 
                        California
                     came offering a free state constitution and by her admission the
                    equilibrium between slave states and free was no more to be preserved forever.
            There were some irregularities on the part of one or two other states, as in the
                    case of 
                        Michigan
                    . But thirty states have come in since the beginning by the orderly
                    process by which Indiana came.
            Let us briefly review the steps in the process. Jonathan 
                    
                        Jennings
                     then (1815) represented the Territory in Congress. He presented a
                    petition on February 1 from the inhabitants of Indiana Territory asking
                    admission. This petition was laid on the table without discussion. It was
                    thought the Territory had not the 60,000 population required by the ordinance of
                    1787. The Western Eagle of 
                        Lexington
                    , down in 
                        Scott County
                    , had placed the population at 68,000; but the Eagle was soaring too high.
            In December, 1815, after the spring and summer migrations, the General Assembly
                    of the Territory presented a petition to Congress. This was signed by Dennis
                    Pennington, of Corydon, the Speaker of the House, and David Robb, of 
                        Princeton
                    . The petition asked for authority to elect delegates to a
                    constitutional convention. It also asked for a congressional township as an
                    endowment for a state university, and six miles square for a state capital, and
                    for the coal mines and salt licks and for 7 per cent of land sales for the
                    state.
            Indiana was not too modest in her asking. Why should she be? Uncle Sam was looked
                    upon as a veritable Santa Claus in his treatment of the on-coming states in the
                    west. Later it was said that the largesses of the federal government were one of
                    the factors that held the Northwest loyal to the 
                        Union
                     in the days of '61.
            In January, 1816, an enabling act for Indiana was reported in the House. Recent
                    evidence had shown that there were over 12,000 voters in the Territory and over
                    63,000 people. The bill easily passed the House, with only three dissenting
                    votes. In the Senate it was referred to the committee that had charge of an
                    enabling act for 
                        Mississippi
                    . That state was admitted in 1817. It was coming to be the custom,
                    whether by design or not, to admit new states in pairs, one slave, one
                    free—so the equilibrium would be preserved. The Enabling Act had
                    passed both houses by April 15, and was signed by President Madison on April 19,
                    1816.
            This act laid down the boundaries of the state as they now are, ten miles being
                    added on the north from the territorial boundary and some small areas east of
                    the 
                        Wabash
                    .
            The new constitution was to be republican in form and to exclude slavery.
                    Congress donated Section 16 of every town- 
                    ship for public schools, and one whole township for a seminary of learning. Salt
                    springs also were granted.
            The act set May 13 for the election of delegates to the constitutional
                    convention. The usual qualifications for voting were named—legal age,
                    usual residence, payment of' taxes. No other property qualifications
                    were required. The convention was to meet at 
                        Corydon
                     on June 16.
            There were only twenty-one days between the signing of the act (April 19) and the
                    election of the delegates (May 13)—a very short time for candidacies
                    and campaigning, especially since, as we must remember, there were no
                    telegraphs, no telephones, no railroads, no radios, and no Fords in those days;
                    and every road in the state was worse than a bad detour. There was not much
                    chance to get around. The 
                        Vincennes
                    
                    Weekly Sun complained of this haste, since hardly more than
                    one issue of the Sun could reach the voters in time for their
                    enlightenment and consideration.
            The election was held on May 13 and the delegates-elect assembled at 
                        Corydon
                     on June 10. It is not within the scope of this paper to give an
                    account of the 
                        Corydon
                     Convention. A few of its distinguished names may be mentioned.
            
               
                        Jennings
                     was its president, William Hendricks, its secretary. William
                    Graham, who afterwards became a representative in Congress; Benjamin Parke,
                    James Scott, and John Johnson, known in our state history as distinguished
                    judges; Dr. David H. Maxwell, the Father of the University; John Badolet, Swiss
                    companion of Albert Gallatin; Frederick Rappe, adopted son of the founder of 
                        New Harmony
                    —these were some of the worthy state-makers of Indiana.
            The convention was in session for eighteen working days—short work
                    compared with the memorable talk-fest from October to February
                    in the winter of 1850 and 1851.
            The members of the convention of 1816 had good reasons for the quick dispatch
                    with which they transacted the business before them. Their fifty members crowded
                    the hotel accommodations of the little town. The weather was hot, which caused
                    them to meet under the cooling shade of the historic elm, alas, now no more. The
                    wheat was ripening and the members wanted to get back to their farms and their
                    harvests.  So the sensible members of that
                    convention at 
                        Corydon
                    , knowing that a successful state can be erected only by building on
                    the experiments of the past, did a piece of quick constructive work by copying
                    largely the constitutions of 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    . The constitutions of those states had been copied chiefly from
                    those of 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Massachusetts
                    . So the men at 
                        Corydon
                     after piecing the articles together properly, adjourned and went
                    home.
            The constitution was not submitted to the voters of the state for their
                    acceptance or rejection, as the custom is in these days. The convention itself
                    was held to embody the sovereignty of the new state. Jonathan Jennings as
                    president was directed to issue to the county sheriffs writs of election to be
                    held on August 5, under the old territorial election laws. The officers to be
                    elected were a governor, a lieutenant-governor, members of the Assembly, a
                    member of Congress, a county sheriff and a county coroner. That was a short
                    ballot, but it was long enough, and about long enough for these days, too.
            On August 5, the state election was duly held. Seventy-five per cent of the
                    voters came to the polls, over 9,000 out of a possible 12,000. Indiana has
                    always had a good record in bringing out the vote, whether from civic virtue or
                    from political conflict I do not presume to say. Our last election was a little
                    better than the first in that regard, and in neither case was there much of a
                    party conflict. It is certain that in the first state election the fullness of
                    the vote could not be accounted for because of a close party contest. The people
                    of Indiana were all of one party; they were all Jeffersonian Republicans, all
                    for 
                        Monroe
                     in 1816. I believe it is Oliver H. Smith who tells us in his
                    recollections that a Hoosier about this time brought a suit for libel against a
                    neighbor because that neighbor had called him a Federalist. He
                    did not know what a Federalist was, but it was as if some one were called in
                    these days a bandit or a bootlegger.
            On November 4, the first General Assembly of Indiana met at 
                        Corydon
                    . W. H. Lilly was elected auditor of state, Daniel C. Lane was made
                    treasurer of state, and Robert A. New, secretary of state. James Noble and
                    Waller Taylor were elected  as our first 
                        United States
                     senators. On November 14, Jesse L. Holman, Thomas H. Blake, and
                    Joseph Bartholomew were chosen as electors to cast the vote of the state for
                    James Monroe for President.
            In December the two Indiana senators and a member of the house appeared in 
                        Washington
                    . On December 6, the Senate and on December 9, the House by a joint
                    resolution, appropriately introduced by William Henry Harrison, declared the
                    state a member of the 
                        Union
                    . On December 11, the day we celebrate, President Madison set hand
                    and seal to the act. So Indiana was built and her relation to the 
                        Union
                     established, and the two have lived happily together ever since.
            There is one more aspect of our beginning which it may be well to recite. The
                    year 1816, as we have incidentally noted, was a presidential year, the year in
                    which James Monroe was elected President. The Indiana Electors were chosen in
                    November, before Indiana had been admitted to the 
                        Union
                    . But she had been fully admitted before the two houses met to count
                    the electoral vote. Was she entitled to vote in that presidential year?
            Wednesday, February 12, 1817, was the day set for counting the electoral votes.
                    On that day the House sent a message to the Senate informing that body that the
                    House was ready to proceed to open and count the votes for President and
                    Vice-President of the 
                        United States
                    .
            The Senate soon after entered the House of Representatives, preceded by their
                    president, who was received by the speaker at the chair of the House, in which
                    the president of the Senate took his seat, and the speaker of the House sat
                    beside him. The tellers of the two houses, Mr. Macon, of 
                        North Carolina
                    , on the part of the Senate, and Mr. Jackson, of 
                        Virginia
                    , and Mr. Pitkin, of 
                        Connecticut
                     (the painstaking statistician of his time), on the part of the
                    House of Representatives, occupied seats in front of the chair. The seals of the
                    votes were broken by the president of the Senate, and by him handed to the
                    tellers, by whom they were read aloud and recorded on the Journals of the Senate
                    and of the House of Representatives by the secretary and clerk of each house,
                    respectively.
            
            The votes of all the states having been read, with the exception of those of the
                    State of Indiana, Mr. Taylor, of 
                        New York
                    , arose and addressing himself to the speaker of the House,
                    expressed his unfeigned regret at being compelled to interrupt the proceedings
                    of the two houses. Mr. Taylor was going on to state his objection to the votes
                    of Indiana being read and recorded when the Speaker (who was Henry Clay)
                    interrupted him, saying that the houses met there for one specific purpose, that
                    of performing their constitutional duty which they were then discharging, and
                    while they were doing that, they could consider no proposition nor perform any
                    other business.
            Mr. Varnum, senator from 
                        Massachusetts
                    , addressed the president of the Senate (who was Senator Gaillard,
                    of 
                        South Carolina
                    ; Elbridge Gerry, the Vice-president, having died in office November
                    23, 1814). He said he concurred fully with what the Speaker had said, and on
                    Varnum's motion the Senate decided to withdraw so the House could
                    deliberate on the question.
            The House members remained in the hall. Mr. Taylor arose and said: "The
                    Electors of President and Vice-President having been elected in Indiana before
                    she was declared to be admitted to the 
                        Union
                     by Congress, the votes of that state were no more entitled to be
                    counted than if they had been received from 
                        Missouri
                     or any Territory of the 
                        United States
                    . The votes of Indiana having been given previous to her admission
                    to the 
                        Union
                     were illegal and ought not to be received."
            Cady, of 
                        New York
                    , thought the question was settled. Having admitted the
                    representatives of the state to act on all concerns of the nation, it was too
                    late to question her right to participate in this. When the constitution of the
                    state was assented to she was entitled to all the privileges of an independent
                    member of the 
                        Union
                    .
            Mr. Sharp, of 
                        Kentucky
                    , moved a joint resolution that the votes of Indiana were properly
                    and legally given and ought to be counted. The votes had been given after the
                    people of Indiana had performed the conditions required of them to become an
                    independent state.
            
            William Hendricks was Indiana's Representative on the floor of the
                    House, a full-fledged member from a state now fully admitted. He took the floor
                    and said in substance:
            "Indiana was or was not a state. Deciding that we decide the question
                    before the house. Had the state complied with the conditions of the Enabling
                    Act? She had. Had she adopted a republican constitution? She had. The authority
                    which gives Indiana a vote in this House gives her a right to vote for President
                    and Vice-president."
            The House after deliberation passed no resolution on the subject, but sent word
                    to the Senate that they were ready to proceed in counting the votes. The Senate
                    soon after entered the Representatives' Hall, whereupon the Speaker
                    informed them that the House had not deemed it necessary to take any order on
                    the subject which had produced the separation of the two houses. The votes were
                    then counted and Indiana's three votes were counted with the rest. This
                    was a little tempest in a teapot, but four years later in connection with the
                    admission of 
                        Missouri
                     a conflict like this, but of tenfold volume, was to be repeated
                    because of the issue of slavery connected therewith.
            The President of the Senate declared that James Monroe, of 
                        Virginia
                    , was duly elected President of the 
                        United States
                    , to commence on the fourth of March next; and that Daniel D.
                    Tompkins, of 
                        New York
                    , was duly elected Vice-president for a like term of four years.
            
               
                        Monroe
                     and Tompkins each received 183 votes. Rufus King, of 
                        New York
                    , received 34 votes for President, but on the Vice-presidency the
                    Federalist Electors were divided: John E. Howard, of 
                        Maryland
                    , received 22 votes; James Ross, of 
                        Virginia
                    , received 5 votes; John Marshall, of 
                        Virginia
                    , received 4 votes, and Robert G. Harper, of 
                        Maryland
                    , received 3 votes. John Marshall was and had been for sixteen years
                    the Chief Justice of the 
                        United States
                     Supreme Court, but it was always known where he stood in politics.
                    He was as stiff a Federalist as if he had been President.
            This account has traced in outline the story of Indiana in the year of her birth.
                    Since then the state has had a goodly history. It is the purpose of this Society
                    to preserve this  history and to set it forth
                    to whom it may concern. There may be aspects of this history of which we cannot
                    speak with pride; the state, like the individual, may learn helpful lessons from
                    its shortcomings, its errors, and its wrongs. But it is the office of the Muse
                    of History to reveal the truth—the significant truth—and
                    if we do that, we need not fear.
            George Bernard Shaw in the preface to his Joan of Arc says that
                    we now teach our children history about 
                        Washington
                     and lie about Lenin while in 
                        Washington
                    's day men lied about 
                        Washington
                     and taught history about Cromwell. There is much truth in the
                    saying. When we come to tell the history of Indiana we need not unduly magnify
                    and glorify her achievements or her virtues. If we can find the truth and set
                    forth a plain unvarnished tale, we shall on the whole be able to find a great
                    deal of gratification in the record.
         
         
         
            The Revision of 1807
            LEE BURNS, 
                        Indianapolis
                    
            
            As is related by the title page of this old book of territorial statutes, it
                    contains "The laws of the Indiana Territory, comprising those acts
                    formerly in force and as revised by Messrs. John Rice Jones and John Johnson,
                    and passed (after amendments) by the Legislature; and the Original Acts passed
                    at the First Session of the Second General Assembly of the said Territory, begun
                    and held at the Borough of 
                        Vincennes
                     on the sixteenth day of August, Anno Domini eighteen hundred and
                    seven." Pausing momentarily, after this long and impressive sentence,
                    the title page goes on to record that these laws have been printed by authority,
                    and under the inspection of the committee, by Stout and Smoot, printers to the
                    territory.
            At that time Indiana Territory, which included the present states of Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and some part of 
                        Minnesota
                    , had been in existence for seven years. The census of 1800 had
                    shown a population of 5,641, exclusive of Indians, but including nearly two
                    hundred slaves. Practically all of these inhabitants lived in the settlements
                    along the Mississippi, Wabash, or
                        Ohio rivers or about the Great Lakes.
            The Territory had been governed at first by a governor and three judges, all
                    appointed by Congress. Any two of them were authorized to sit as a court, and
                    the governor and judges were empowered with legislative capacity to adopt such
                    laws of the original states as they thought best suited to the territory.
            However, certain problems immediately presented themselves that called for
                    original legislation. One was the question of slavery. It was undoubtedly true
                    that the ordinance of 1787 had provided that there should be neither slavery nor
                         involuntary servitude in the territory,
                    otherwise than in the punishment of crime. But it was equally true that slaves
                    were held in the territory by the French inhabitants of Kaskaskia,
                        Cahokia, 
                        Vincennes
                    , and other settlements. Both the ordinance of 1787 and the deed of
                    cession by 
                        Virginia
                     had confirmed to the French inhabitants their old laws and customs
                    in regard to property rights, and the existence of slavery had been recognized
                    by implication in the ordinance by its restriction of suffrage to the
                    "free male inhabitants." So, despite much discussion, the
                    slaves that had been in the territory before 1787 continued to be slaves and
                    were listed as such by the government census.
            It was perhaps but natural that many of those settlers who owned no slaves should
                    have felt unfairly handicapped. Undoubtedly, much pro-slavery sentiment existed.
                    In 1802 the governor, William Henry Harrison, presided over a convention of
                    delegates at 
                        Vincennes
                    , that had been called to consider the problem, and forwarded to
                    Congress a resolution which they had adopted declaring the determination of the
                    people to suspend the article of compact forbidding slavery as soon as Congress
                    would give consent. In the following year, the governor and two of the judges
                    adopted from the 
                        Virginia
                     code a law concerning servants, which provided that "all
                    negroes and mulattoes who shall come into this territory under contract to serve
                    another shall be compelled to perform such contract during the term
                    thereof."
            But this did not seem sufficient. Other petitions and memorials were sent to
                    Congress asking for modification of the slavery proviso, and when it was evident
                    that this would not be done, a movement was begun to advance the Territory to a
                    more independent position.
            An election to determine whether or not there should be a change was held in
                    August, 1804. Only four hundred votes Were cast in the entire territory, but the
                    proposal for a different form of government received a substantial majority and
                    Indiana Territory advanced to the dignity of a government of the second grade
                    and was entitled to enact legislation of its own.
            
            The first session of the legislature, of seven elected representatives, and five
                    members of the council appointed by the governor, was held at 
                        Vincennes
                     in July, 1805. After passing considerable legislation, they adopted
                    a resolution which authorized John Johnson and John Rice Jones, two lawyers of 
                        Vincennes
                    , "to reduce into one code the laws in force in the
                    territory and make report to the next session." The result of their
                    labors was the revision of 1807, the first codification of Indiana law.
            There was a considerable amount of legislation to be arranged and classified for
                    there were not only the laws adopted by the governor and judges, and those
                    passed at the sessions of 1805 and 1807, but the laws of the Northwest
                    Territory, passed prior to the separation of Indiana Territory, were regarded as
                    in force. The revision of Jones and Johnson includes a comprehensive series of
                    laws that would seem to have provided for most of the problems of the time. It
                    begins with provisions for civil, criminal and probate procedure, declares in
                    force the common law of 
                        England
                     prior to the fourth year of the reign of King James the first, with
                    certain exceptions, and authorizes the establishment of courts in the counties
                    of 
                  Dearborn, Clark, Knox, Randolph
               , and St. Clair.
            
               
                        Dearborn County
                     had been located in the southeastern part of the Territory in 1803. 
                        Clark County
                    , organized in 1801 from the eastern part of 
                        Knox
                    , included the territory east of Blue river and
                    south of the east fork of the 
                        White
                    , 
                        Knox County
                     was along the lower Wabash, and 
                        St. Clair
                     and 
                        Randolph
                     counties included the settlements along the Mississippi
                        river and south of the Illinois river in
                    what was known as the 
                        Illinois
                     country.
            Early in the session of 1805 the legislature passed "an act concerning
                    the introduction of negroes and mulattoes into this territory," and
                    this act, which remained in force until 1810, is included in the revision. It
                    provided that any person owning slaves above fifteen years of age, in any state
                    or territory of the 
                        United States
                    , could lawfully bring them into Indiana Territory and could within
                    thirty days enter into an agreement with them, before the clerk of the Court of
                    Common Pleas of any county, as to the term of years that they would  serve their masters. If any slave should refuse to
                    enter into such an agreement it was made lawful to remove him back into slave
                    territory. Slaves were to serve under these agreements until the males reached
                    the age of thirty-five and females the age of thirty-two. And children born of
                    such slaves while under indenture were required to serve until the males were
                    thirty years old and the females twenty-eight.
            This law, which bore the signature of the governor, William Henry Harrison,
                    undoubtedly reflected the opinion of a majority of the citizens that some way
                    must be found to use slave labor in Indiana. Slavery was then a recognized
                    institution. In a law concerning taxation in this same volume, slaves were
                    listed as personal property, along with horses and cattle, and it was provided
                    that for each the owner might be taxed "a sum not exceeding one hundred
                    cents." In another act sheriffs were authorized to make distress of
                    "slaves, goods or chattels" in order to collect delinquent
                    fees. The holding of slaves by those who had owned them before the adoption of
                    the ordinance of 1787 was taken as a matter of course by a great majority of the
                    people, and a great part of this majority wanted to be able, by some
                    arrangement, to do what their neighbors could do. Those who argue that slavery
                    never existed in Indiana have evidently overlooked these references to slaves in
                    the statutes of the Territory. Early travelers referred to the slavery problem
                    in their accounts of Indiana Territory. In 1810 John Melish, an English
                    merchant, in a book describing his travels, said that slavery was originally
                    prohibited in Indiana territory, but that the law had been relaxed in favor of
                    the new settlers who had slaves. Other travelers, in their published accounts of
                    the territory, refer to the use of slaves and the heated discussion that was
                    going on in regard to the continuance of slavery.
            In later years, Governor Harrison has been both criticised and defended for his
                    attitude, but it would seem hardly worth while to hold a brief either for or
                    against him on the subject. He was undoubtedly making an earnest attempt to do
                    what Was best for a young and growing territory. As he signed the acts of 1803
                    and 1805 and called and presided over the convention held at 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1802 that petitioned Congress  to permit slaves to be brought into the territory, he must have been
                    convinced that it was desirable to introduce negro labor, either by slavery or
                    some form of indenture that would evade the provision of the ordinance of 1787.
            These laws of 1807 give much other interesting information in regard to the needs
                    and opinions of the time. Improvements in means for transportation were
                    necessary and provisions were made for the opening of public roads and public
                    ferries. A ferry, being a natural monopoly, was strictly regulated as to rates,
                    which were to be fixed and enforced by the Courts of Common Pleas. This was a
                    fore-runner, by one hundred years, of our Public Service Commission. Rates were
                    also fixed for piloting boats through the rapids of the 
                        Ohio
                     and penalties provided for anyone acting as pilot without a
                    license.
            Grist mills were encouraged, but the rates of toll were strictly regulated, as
                    were the rates of taverns and public inns. A grist mill operated by wind or
                    water was entitled to receive for grinding and bolting wheat one tenth part, and
                    for Indian corn, oats, barley or buckwheat, one seventh part. But the owner of a
                    horse mill was entitled to practically double this toll if he provided the horse
                    to turn the mill.
            The rates for taverns were fixed by the courts of common pleas, and each tavern
                    keeper was required to set them up in his most public room with a severe
                    penalty, should he presume to sell at any higher rate. Such public houses were
                    forbidden to sell or deliver any wine, rum, brandy, or other spirits to bond
                    servants or slaves.
            The suppression of gambling was attempted then as now, and the fighting of cocks,
                    or playing at any match of bullets, or the use of cards, dice, billiards, bowls,
                    or shovel board, or any game of hazard or address for money, or the running of
                    horses on a highway, were punishable by a fine. No person was permitted to set
                    up in his house, barn, stable, arbor, bower, or yard, an E. O. table or anything
                    reputed to be a gaming table.
            Duelling was prohibited, the statute providing that anyone issuing a challenge
                    "to fight at sword, rapier, pistol, or other deadly weapon"
                    should, upon conviction, forfeit not less 
                    than fifty dollars, and the carrier of a challenge was also subject to fine or
                    imprisonment.
            Imprisonment was then the punishment for those who could not pay their debts.
                    Provision was made for certain privileges to such prisoners, and jailors were
                    directed to post in the debtors' rooms of the jails a record of the
                    prison bounds, which might extend not more than two hundred yards from the jail.
                    Within these bounds, a prisoner for debt, for whom a surety would give
                    sufficient bond, might be permitted to take exercise. Friends of such prisoners
                    were permitted to furnish them with meat and drink, but only through a small
                    window or "wicket grate", in order that the security of the
                    prison might not be too frequently exposed by opening the doors thereof.
            When anyone convicted of crime was sentenced to pay a fine and was unable to pay
                    it, the courts were authorized to order the sheriff to sell the persons so
                    convicted to service to anyone who would pay the fine. It was provided that if
                    anyone so hired or sold should abscond from the service of his or her master or
                    mistress, before the expiration of the term of servitude, he or she should be
                    whipped with thirty-nine stripes and should, moreover, serve two days for every
                    one so lost. Persons convicted of many of the ordinary crimes were to be
                    punished by whipping on the bare back, but some crimes of peculiar enormity,
                    such as arson and horse stealing, were punishable by death.
            The law to regulate elections for representatives to serve in the general
                    assembly provided that, should they deem it advisable, the judges of election
                    could adjourn from day to day for three days, but no longer. This was made
                    necessary by the difficulties of travel and the time that; was required to reach
                    the poll. The right to vote was restricted to those free male inhabitants who
                    had title to fifty acres of land within the territory, or land that, with the
                    improvements, was worth one hundred dollars. To vote for a representative, an
                    elector was required to be not only a property owner, but a land owner. There
                    seem to have been no other elections, as all other officers, including the
                    judges of the courts, were appointed by the governor. This short ballot, that
                    now seems  so desirable and so difficult to
                    secure, was then the only method of voting that had ever been considered. The
                    electors were able to know the men elected to represent them and were not
                    confused by a ballot containing the names of dozens of candidates for secondary
                    offices.
            One of the most comprehensive laws is that establishing and regulating the
                    militia. It provides for the enrollment of every free, able bodied, white male
                    citizen between the ages of eighteen and forty-five. Each citizen so enrolled
                    was required to provide his own firearm, which might be a good musket, with a
                    sufficient bayonet and belt; or a fusee, two spare flints, a knapsack, and a
                    pouch; or a good rifle with pouch and powder horn; and the members so armed were
                    also required to furnish suitable ammunition. Officers were to be armed with a
                    sword or hanger, and espontoon [spontoon, half pike], and officers and privates
                    alike were to appear in some cheap uniform provided by themselves when they met
                    for the purpose of muster. And, the statute reports, it was believed that it
                    would be of great advantage to annex to each battallion a light company of young
                    men, whose ability and domestic circumstances would permit of frequent training
                    and give to the main body of troops a military pride. Provision was made for
                    dividing the militia into divisions, brigades and regiments, with companies of
                    artillery and troops of horse; an organization that may seem unnecessarily
                    elaborate for a territory 50 sparsely inhabited. Yet in the campaign against the 
                        Shawnees
                    , culminating in the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , and in the War of 1812, these frontier soldiers, armed with
                    flintlocks and muskets, gave a good account of themselves.
            Another interesting enactment prohibited the furnishing of intoxicating liquor to
                    Indians, with the cautious proviso that it should not be in effect until similar
                    legislation had been passed in the states of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     and the territories of 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Louisiana
                    . It was also made unlawful to furnish to the Indians any firearms
                    or ammunition.
            The organization of 
                        Vincennes
                     University was authorized by an act whose flowery preamble states
                    that the independence, happiness, and energy of every republic depends (under
                    the influence of the destinies of Heaven) upon the wisdom  and virtue of its citizens. With an original
                    endowment of over twenty-three thousand acres of land, that had been granted by
                    Congress, the trustees were given a broad and perpetual charter to establish and
                    maintain a school of liberal arts and sciences. The trustees were enjoined to
                    use their utmost endeavors to induce the Indians to send their children to the
                    university and such students were to be maintained, clothed and educated without
                    charge. It was also provided that when the funds of the institution were
                    sufficient, a school should be established for the education of females.
            To provide funds, not exceeding twenty thousand dollars, for the support of the
                    school and the purchase of equipment, a lottery was authorized. This was
                    considered at that time a very proper means of raising money for public
                    purposes, although in the criminal code in this same volume, privately conducted
                    lotteries were prohibited.
            An act concerning taxation on land provided that all land in the territory should
                    be assessed every four years and should be taxed at the rate of twenty cents for
                    every hundred dollars valuation. In making such assessments all houses, barns
                    and other improvements were to be excluded. This was an application of the
                    single tax theory of encouraging improvements by exempting them from taxation.
                    The same provision exempting improvements from taxation was included in the acts
                    providing for the organization of the towns of 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . The only other community large enough to have an organized
                    government was 
                        Vincennes
                    . As the seat of government, it was erected into a borough, whose
                    trustees were given wide authority to adopt any laws and ordinances as they
                    might deem necessary, and no restriction was placed on their right to make
                    assessments on buildings as well as on land.
            The last paragraphs of the act regarding land taxes must have been an
                    after-thought. They relate exclusively to billiard tables, which seem to have
                    been regarded with unusual aversion, as any person keeping or erecting one was
                    required to Pay a tax of fifty dollars a year. When we recall that in this Same
                    volume the maximum tax on each horse, mule, or ass was fixed at fifty cents, and
                    on each bond servant or slave,  at one
                    hundred cents, it would seem that a billiard table was considered something of a
                    luxury.
            One of the most comprehensive acts is described in its title as authorizing the
                    Proprietors of Lands in the Lower Prairie in the county of 
                        Knox
                     to enclose the same. The boundary line, as described in the act,
                    was to run from a point on the bank of the river 
                        Wabash
                    , dividing the town lots from the church lands, to a point where the
                    lands of Langedoe were divided from the lands of Bray, and from there on around
                    different concessions contained in the prairie to the point of beginning. Each
                    owner of lands within this common field was required to build and ever after
                    maintain his portion of a boundary fence, made of good and sufficient rails ten
                    feet in length, laid horizontally in panels to form a worm fence at least five
                    feet high.
            It was required that these land owners or proprietors should meet at the house of
                    Madame Page in 
                        Vincennes
                     and elect one of their number to be Syndic of the field. The Syndic
                    was given full power and authority to direct where the fences were to be
                    erected, and if any proprietor failed to erect his proportionate part, the
                    Syndic was to have it erected. He was given authority to act for any
                    non-resident owners, could lease their lands and collect the rental, and was to
                    have complete power over the building and maintenance of gates, roads and dikes
                    in order that the crops in the field might be protected.
            It would be interesting to know how this compulsory cooperation worked out in
                    practice and how long it was continued. There was also a commons of nearly five
                    thousand acres, appropriated by Congress in 1791, for the use of all the
                    inhabitants of 
                        Vincennes
                    . This ground, which had been cultivated by the French settlers for
                    many years, was described by travelers as having wonderful fertility.
            At the end of the volume are several enactments to provide for the expenses
                    incurred by the legislature. They include an appropriation to the county of 
                        Knox
                     of fifty dollars for the rent of the house in which the session of
                    the legislature was held, nine dollars to Messrs. Joshua Bond and John D. Hay
                    for making a table and two benches, and twenty-one  dollars and ninety-six cents for stationery used
                    during the session.
            Authorization was given for the printing by Stout and Smoot of five hundred
                    copies of the revised code, and Messrs. John Rice Jones and John Johnson were
                    authorized to receive two hundred and fifty dollars for their work as editors.
                    The code was declared to have full force and effect in the Territory and all
                    other laws previously in effect were repealed. All of which was approved on
                    September 19, 1807, by William Henry Harrison, Governor of the Territory.
            The revision was printed on a hand press that Elihu Stout had brought to 
                        Vincennes
                     from 
                  Frankfort,
                            Kentucky
               , on a small
                    river craft propelled by hand. The paper is good, much better than that used in
                    printing law books of today, and the editorial work was admirably done.
            The laws themselves, with certain modifications, might well be the laws of today.
                    Later generations have been wise in abolishing the whipping post and the
                    debtors' prison, and the abolition of slavery was foreseen a century
                    ago by all forward looking men. But we can well envy our forefathers the short
                    ballot which enabled them to have a truly representative government.
            In the hundred years and more since the book was printed, the state has gained in
                    population and wealth, and has shared with the rest of the world in an increase
                    in material comforts, but it is doubtful if our present multiplicity of laws and
                    judicial decisions represent any advance in our system of government over that
                    contained in this revision of 1807.
         
         
         
            Early Flour Mills in Indiana
            GEORGE BRANSON, 
                        Brazil
                    
            
            [Mr. Branson has made a detailed study of 
                        Parke County
                     flour mills which is being printed in the 
                        
                            Rockville Tribune
                        
                     beginning with July 8. His account of the various mills which have been
                    built in 
                        Parke County
                     from the earliest days is to be a part of an historical and
                    archaeological survey of the county, which it is hoped may be published in the
                    not distant future. Mr. Branson's general account of flour mills, their
                    operation and the part they played in early Indiana history, here printed,
                    applies almost equally well to all parts of the state.]
            The first white men who came to Indiana to establish homes found no mills for
                    grinding grain, except such contrivances as were used by the Indians to grind
                    corn and the kernels of nuts. They brought a supply of flour or meal with them,
                    and when that was exhausted, returned to the nearest mill for another supply to
                    relieve their wants until they could clear the dense forest from a small patch
                    of ground, and plant and raise corn. Sometimes they could trade with the few
                    remaining Indians for corn, but not for wheat—the Indians did not
                    raise wheat. Corn was the principal grain for making meal for bread. Sometimes
                    wild rice and the kernels of acorns were ground and mixed with meal. Corn was
                    not used so much from choice as from necessity. The cultivation of wheat in the
                    forest region was not entirely successful in the first decade of settlement. The
                    forest leaves made the surface soil too light, and the tall trees around a small
                    piece of ground made too much shade. Wheat planted among the roots and stumps of
                    trees did not mature well; it was musty and made a poor quality of flour. It was
                    better on prairie land, but 
                        Parke County
                     had but little treeless land. Corn was as precious to the Indian as
                    wheat is to the white man, but the Indian made no mill, unless we call a mortar
                    and pestle a mill. Some  stone mortars and
                    pestles that were used by Indians have been discovered. They also used wooden
                    mortars made by burning a deep cup-shaped cavity in a log or stump with hot
                    rocks. Some pioneers used such vessels for pounding corn into meal, and for
                    making hominy. Many of them made meal with a grater, which was a piece of
                    perforated tin nailed to a board. The ears of corn were held in hand and rubbed
                    on the rough surface of the tin until the grains were ground down to the cob.
            The pioneers of Indiana constructed several kinds of flour mills. Along the
                        Ohio River were floating mills. They were boats built
                    and equipped for grinding wheat and corn. They were movable, and could be
                    anchored where their owners wished to operate them. The water wheel was rotated
                    by the current of the stream. David Thomas, who traveled extensively in the
                    state in 1816 to 1818 said most of the mills that he saw for grinding wheat and
                    corn were hand mills and horse mills. The hand mill was an improvement over the
                    mortar and quite different from it. It was made by placing two boulders, each
                    having one plane surface, in a box or in a section of a hollow log. A lever,
                    crank or some kind of appliance used by hand rotated the upper stone which
                    ground the grain on the lower stone.
            Colonel W. M. Cockrum says in his Pioneer History of Indiana:
                    
                        Horse mills were made in many ways. The only one I ever saw was
                            constructed in a very simple manner. The main shaft, which was an
                            upright post, had a small wooden pulley around it about six feet from
                            the ground. The post that was turned by the horse had a large wooden
                            pulley or hoop about six feet from the ground. A band or belt of rawhide
                            was put around both of the posts on the pulleys. The horse was hitched
                            to an arm which was fastened into the post with the large pulley, and as
                            he went around, the main shaft went very fast. The grinding was done by
                            the burrs located on the floor of the mill just above the belt.
                    
                
            The horse worked below the floor. The two shafts were far enough apart for the
                    horse to pass between them.
            Many horse mills were built in Indiana from 1820 to 1830, and some of them were
                    used as late as 1840. I never heard of one in 
                        Parke County
                    , but there were several in 
                        Clay
                    
                     County which 
                        Parke County
                     pioneers may have patronized.
            Water mills for grinding grain could not always be located where their owners
                    wished them to be. Their location was determined by the natural conditions of
                    the water courses on which they were built. The banks of the stream, the bottom
                    and the volume of water were determining factors. The location of the mill often
                    determined the location of the village or town with its various industries.
                    Almost without exception a saw mill was attached to a grist mill, but seldom was
                    a grist mill combined with a steam saw mill. When a flour mill and its dam and
                    race were completed, it cost little to attach a saw mill. A shed was
                    constructed, a sash saw and log carriage were installed, and an additional wheel
                    placed in the race. The streams afforded means for transporting logs to the
                    mills. The village had its general merchandise store, blacksmith shop,
                    postoffice and physician. All farmers had to patronize the mill. Each one had to
                    wait his turn for his grist to be ground. The grinding was a slow process, and
                    often he had to wait a long time. Sometimes there were so many ahead of him that
                    he had to return the next day to get his flour. While waiting for his grist, he
                    exchanged his farm products for goods at the store, had his horses shod and his
                    farm implements repaired.
            The mill was built on one side of the creek that divided the territory of its
                    patrons into two parts, and when the creek was flush or obstructed with ice, it
                    was difficult and dangerous for patrons on the opposite side to go to the mill
                    and village. This situation called for bridges. Most of the old bridges in 
                        Parke County
                     are still used, and are apparently as good as when first built. But
                    there was no prophet then to admonish the builders to make them wide enough for
                    the use of the coming automobile.
            There was no uniformity in the construction of mill dams in 
                        Parke County
                    . A large log placed across a small stream made a sufficient dam in
                    one locality, a line of brush weighted with stones in another place, or a wall
                    of logs held in place with irregular shaped stones made a dam that answered its
                    purpose. Mill sites were a part of the public domain, and the height of a dam
                    could be determined by the local court. A 
                    dam that held the water on valuable farm land or obstructed navigation of the
                    stream could be condemned. The largest and most substantial dams in 
                        Parke County
                     were built on Big Raccoon Creek, the largest stream within the
                    county. Some of these were about seven feet high, and were constructed by
                    placing parallel to each other on the bottom of the creek three sills of heavy
                    sawed or hewed timber. These mud sills were about four feet apart. A row of
                    posts was mortised into the front sill, also a row of shorter posts into the
                    middle sill. Then as many pieces of timber as there were posts in either row
                    extended from the top of the posts down to the third sill. Heavy planks in
                    horizontal position were fastened to the slanting pieces with wooden pins or
                    spike nails. Oak timber was the best, because it was most durable in the water,
                    and its strength was superior for resisting the pressure of water and logs that
                    went over the dam during freshets. When the farmers were clearing the trees off
                    the low bottom lands, a good deal of timber was carried away by the overflow of
                    the creeks. Often large logs and whole trees lodged on the dam, frequently
                    breaking it. During twenty years of flat-boating in 
                        Parke County
                     all the boats on the two Raccoon creeks went over from one to five
                    mill dams. This was done when the creek was flush, to protect the dam, also the
                    boat. Slender tree-trunks forty feet long were used as skids on which the boat
                    slid down from the top of the dam. Similar conditions existed on Sugar Creek.
            The mill was built on columns of timber or stone tall enough to keep it above the
                    high water of the stream, and to provide space for the mill race, which was
                    constructed under the mill, beginning at the near end of the dam. It was made by
                    placing two rows of posts six or eight feet tall, and from three to six feet
                    apart in the row. These dimensions varied to suit the conditions of different
                    mills. The posts were firmly fastened together at the top and bottom with cross
                    pieces. Thick planks were nailed to the inner surface of the posts. Generally
                    there was a solid stone floor on which to build, but if the bottom was clay or
                    sand, it was necessary to make a hard floor to prevent washing out the
                    foundation of the mill. The first floor of the mill was close above the race. A
                    partition  was constructed across the race to
                    hold the water until it was needed. There was an open space in the partition
                    which was closed by a movable wicket.
            The entrance of the race was guarded by strips of lumber that prevented debris
                    from floating into the race. The space between the guards and partition was the
                    forebay or head race; beyond the partition was the tail race. The water that was
                    held at bay by the dam was the mill pond or bay.
            The turbine wheel was used almost exclusively in 
                        Parke County
                    ; no other kind was used in the race. Its shape was that of a large
                    tub with an upright shaft in its center. The rim was supported by spokes
                    proceeding from the shaft. On the outer surface of the wheel were buckets or
                    triangular boxes as long as the rim was wide. When the wicket was raised by the
                    staff to which it was attached, the water rushed against the buckets, and forced
                    the wheel and its shaft to rotate, and the shaft extending upward through the
                    floor of the mill operated the burrs and other machinery attached.
            The overshot wheel was constructed about the same as the turbine, but it was
                    placed in upright position, and the shaft was placed at one side of the wheel. A
                    large cog-wheel attached to the main wheel worked in a small cog-wheel around
                    the shaft. The wheel and shaft were stationed below the dam, and instead of a
                    race, a flume conveyed the water from the dam to the buckets at the top of the
                    wheel, causing it to rotate forward from the dam. The undershot wheel was
                    similar to the overshot, except that the flume was low, and carried the water to
                    the lower part of the wheel, causing it to turn backward.
            All of the water mills in 
                        Parke County
                     used millstones for grinding all kinds of grain. Some of these
                    stones or burrs were made of granite boulders or nigger-heads such as we find
                    scattered over many farms. The stone that so eloquently suggested the name of
                    our county seat could be reduced to a small burr by a skilled hand and a chisel
                    and mallet. It came in the glacial period, and settled ages before the Indian
                    and white man came. Each of the home-made burrs was a single stone, but the
                    large burrs, especially those in the steam mills, were made and shipped in
                    sections, and built up where  they were to be
                    used. Sometimes the sections were firmly bound together by a wide iron band on
                    the rim of the stone. Especially was it necessary to band the upper stone to
                    prevent it from breaking when in rapid motion.
            
               
                        France
                     shipped many burrs to America, and it is probable that a few came
                    to 
                        Parke County
                    . It is equally probable that the French burr used in the first mill
                    at 
                        Armiesburg
                     was shipped to 
                        New Orleans
                    , then up the 
                        Mississippi
                    , 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Wabash
                     rivers to its final destination. The first steamboat that came to 
                        Terre Haute
                     arrived in 1822. From that time onward steamboats went far up the 
                        Wabash
                    , and may have brought other burrs to 
                        Parke County
                    . The burrs generally used in the 
                        United States
                     when the Northwest Territory was opened for settlement were made of
                    a coarse granular sandstone found in 
                        Ulster County
                    , 
                        New York
                    , 
                        Lancaster County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and 
                        Montgomery County
                    , 
                        West Virginia
                    . It is quite likely that the burrs used in Fair Play mill came from
                    one of these localities. Burr stone is tough and cellular, with a rough surface
                    that does not become smooth by rubbing. The best burrs were imported from 
                        France
                    . They contained a good deal of silex that made their surface ridges
                    very hard and sharp. The lower stone was the real burr and was stationary, while
                    the upper or capstone was not necessarily a burr. It rotated rapidly as it
                    pressed the grain on the burr. When the burr became too smooth to grind properly
                    it was sharpened by cutting the grooves deeper, thus making the ridges sharper.
                    This was dressing the burr, and did not refer to the upper stone. However, both
                    stones were generally called burrs.
            The manufacture of flour by the roller process began in 
                        Parke County
                     in 1880. In 1884 Jacob Rohm installed machinery for that purpose in
                    his new mill at 
                        Mansfield
                    . In 1880 or 1881 Bright and Davis likewise equipped their new mill
                    at 
                        Waterman
                    . All the mills in the county have abandoned their burrs. The
                    grinding is done by solid steel rollers four to six inches in diameter, and
                    sixteen to twenty-four inches long. On the surface of the rollers are numerous
                    spiral grooves and ridges or burrs that grind the grain as it passes between
                    them. In most mills there are four pairs or stands  of rollers for grinding wheat, each pair grinding a
                    little finer than the one preceding it. For corn, there are from one to three
                    stands. When the ridges on the rollers become dull by continued use, they are
                    sent to a factory where they are sharpened.
            The original custom of mill operators was to take a toll for grinding all kinds
                    of grain. Prior to 1853, there was no. uniform rate of toll throughout the
                    state, but the amount generally taken was one fourth for steam mills and one
                    sixth for water mills. A state law of 1853 fixed the toll for water mills at one
                    eighth of all kinds of grain and feed. When a patron brought his grist to the
                    mill, the miller weighed or measured it, and poured it into the hopper which was
                    situated just above the burrs. He dipped out the toll with a wooden measure, and
                    opened the hopper by a sliding gauge, thus letting the grain flow slowly into a
                    hole through the center of the upper stone, from which it spread between the two
                    stones. The constant flow of grain, and rotation of the upper stone forced the
                    flour toward the rim of the lower stone, where a groove with a spout attached
                    carried it to a chest below the burrs. To make the flour coarse or fine the
                    space between the stones was increased or decreased by set-screws that held the
                    upper stone in place.
            The unbolted flour was conveyed to the bolter. In a few of the earliest mills it
                    was carried in a half-bushel measure, and the bolter was operated by hand, the
                    owner of the grist doing the bolting. Later, in all of the mills the flour was
                    conveyed to the bolter by elevators, and the bolters were operated by connection
                    with the machinery of the mill.
            The bolter was a large hexagon composed of a reel covered with silk bolting
                    cloth. It was twelve or more feet long and about four feet in diameter. It was
                    mounted in a horizontal position except that one end was slightly elevated. As
                    it rotated, the flour sifted through the cloth into a chest beneath it, and the
                    bran moved toward the lower end and out into a bin. To make the flour finer and
                    whiter it was run through another bolter having a cloth with smaller meshes.
                    This separated the shorts from the flour. None of the early mills bolted meal.
                    The corn was ground by corn burrs, the owner 
                    of the grist took it to his home, where the meal was separated from the hulls by
                    a hand sieve. At present, corn is ground by the roller process and bolted,
                    making a fine grade of meal or corn flour.
            The coming of the roller process of grinding was the passing of the toll system,
                    which was succeeded by the present system of exchange and deposit. Sometimes a
                    cash payment was made for grinding feed. By exchange, the miller weighed and
                    graded the wheat and gave the owner in return an amount of flour determined by
                    the quality of the grain. The deposit system was and still is convenient for the
                    farmer. He can take as much wheat to the mill as he wishes; the miller gives him
                    credit for the equivalent in flour of which he can take up any part at any time
                    that he may choose.
            The exchange system has proved to be more satisfactory to the farmers than the
                    toll system. Tolling was more complicated and often caused dissatisfaction.
                    Sometimes the miller was accused of taking too much toll. Sometimes he failed to
                    identify the patron's grain bags, and was criticised for returning
                    inferior ones. To avoid this complaint, the law of 1863 required each patron to
                    put his name on the bags he used, and provided that he could not recover their
                    loss if he failed to do so. Another common complaint was made by the patron
                    whose good wheat was ground immediately after a grist of musty, dusty and
                    inferior wheat. The grain was ground just as it was brought to the
                    mill—without fanning or screening it. The burrs were never entirely
                    empty, and a small portion of bad flour was unavoidably mixed with the good.
                    Sometimes the miller refused to grind a bad grist. If the owner contended that
                    it should be ground, he could make trouble. A mill was and is yet a public
                    utility, and refusal to grind for a patron subjects the miller to a fine and
                    cost of court proceedings.
         
         
         
            The Potawatomi Reservations in 
                  Benton, Fountain, Warren
                and 
                        Tippecanoe Counties
                    
            
            By J. WESLEY WHICKCAR, of 
                        Attica
                    .
            The Potawatomi Indians, accompanied by the Kickapoo, came on horseback into
                    Indiana from the north and northwest prior to 1790. All of northern Indiana,
                    before the migration of these two tribes, was inhabited by the 
                        Miami
                    . The 
                        Miami
                    , an Indian of the woods, refused to mount himself even though he
                    could have secured horses to do so. The Potawatomi and Kickapoo, being mounted,
                    had an advantage in warfare, and slowly but surely drove the 
                        Miami
                     south and east until the Wabash River in
                    western Indiana marked the western and northern line of the 
                        Miami
                     Country. Practically all of the reservations made in Indiana to the 
                        Miami
                     Indians are south and east of the Wabash
                    River, while, with one exception, the grants and reservations made to
                    the Kickapoo and Potawatomi are north and west of the Wabash
                    River.
            This exception, which is located in 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     and the northeast corner of 
                        Fountain County
                    , was made to the children of Kaukeama, a Potawatomi princess, the
                    only sister of Topenebee and the daughter of Aniquiba, the great chief of the
                    Potawatomi. The name of Kaukeama, according to Jacob P. Dunn, means
                    "the girl who ran away from home." Both Aniquiba and Topenebee
                    lived on the St. Joseph River in 
                        Berrien County
                    , 
                        Michigan
                    . As principal chiefs of the Potawatomi, they were at the head of
                    both the state and religious affairs of all the Potawatomi tribes. This
                    chieftainship among the Potawatomi was passed from father to son.
            William Burnett, who probably eloped with Kaukeama, was a handsome young French
                    trader from 
                        Vincennes
                    . After their marriage, Kaukeama and her husband continued to live
                         in the 
                        Wabash Valley
                    . It seems that her marriage turned out to be a very happy one, for
                    she returned to her former home only for visits, spending the balance. of her
                    life in the 
                        Wabash Valley
                    . The Potawatomi like all Indian tribes, with the exception of the
                    principal chiefs who remained permanently located on the St. Joseph
                        River in 
                        Michigan
                    , were nomads, staying but a short time in any one place. After the
                    marriage of Kaukeama to William Burnett, her life was very much the same as that
                    of this roving tribe of Indians.
            Her father's sister had married Sheshepah, or Little Duck, the principal
                    chief of the Kickapoo. It is said Sheshepah's father was a Potawatomi,
                    and his mother a Kickapoo, that he was born at Kickapoo
                    Falls near 
                        Attica
                    , and his mother's father was the principal chief of the
                    Kickapoo. In the history of Vermilion County, Indiana, there is a very good
                    account of Sheshepah written by John Collet. Sheshepah signed the Indian treaty
                    at 
                        Greenville
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , July 22, 1814, as principal chief of the Kickapoo. His signature
                    is later attached to three of the Indian treaties as a chief of the Kickapoo.
                    His marriage to the sister of Aniquiba partly accounts for the close
                    relationship of the Kickapoo and Potawatomi in this locality. After the marriage
                    of Kaukeama to William Burnett she always lived near Sheshepah and her aunt.
                    Sheshepah made his home in 
                        Vermilion County
                     near where the big Vermilion River empties
                    into the 
                        Wabash
                    . He had but one child, a son, of whom he was extremely fond. At the
                    age of seventeen his son fell about fifty feet from a tree and was killed while
                    hunting bear near where the Collet Home for the Aged now stands, south of Cayuga
                    in 
                        Vermilion County
                    , Indiana. Perhaps Kaukeama after that time lived near her aunt and
                    Sheshepah on account of their grief over the loss of their only child. A good
                    portion of the time she lived in 
                        Fountain County
                     near a spring about where Fred LaTourette's house now
                    stands. Here most of her children were born; here the family was living in 1823.
                    In 1908 there were living near Dana in 
                        Vermilion County
                     Burnetts who claimed to be descendants of a brother of William
                    Burnett.
            Aniquiba apparently had but three children, two sons, Topenebee and Shissahecon
                    (who signed the treaty of September  3, 1809,
                    at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     for himself and his brother, Top-enebee), and Kaukeama, the
                    daughter. The reservations to Topenebee, with the exception of one section known
                    as the Indian Float, located in 
                        Benton County
                    , were in the state of 
                        Michigan
                    . The story of this section is well told in The Land of
                        the Potawatomi by Elmore Barce, page 108. This grant was made in the
                    treaty on the banks of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , October 27, 1832.
            The following quotations from treaties between these Indians and the 
                        United States
                     are from the 
                  
                            United States
                         Statutes at Large, Volume 7, Indian
                    Treaties.
            August 3, 1795, the Potawatomi and other Indians made a treaty with 
                        Anthony Wayne
                     at 
                        Greenville
                    . In this treaty there was reserved "one piece [of land]
                    six miles square at the Ouatanon or old Weea towns on the Wabash
                    River" [page 50]
            Peeresh signed the treaty of September 29, 1817, made at the Rapids of the 
                        Miami
                     as one of the principal chiefs of the Potawatomi [page 167].
            In the treaty of October 2, 1818, the following notes are taken from the schedule
                    of grantees, Article (4) says, "The 
                        United States
                     agree to grant to the persons named in the annexed schedule, and
                    their heirs, the quantity of land therein stipulated to be granted; but the land
                    so granted shall never be conveyed by either of the said persons, or their
                    heirs, unless by the consent of the President of the 
                        United States
                    " [page 185].
            Schedule referred to in foregoing treaty:
            "There shall be granted to James Burnett, Isaac Burnett, Jacob Burnett,
                    and Abraham Burnett, two sections of land each; and to Rebecca Burnett and Nancy
                    Burnett, one section of land each; which said James, John, Isaac, Jacob,
                    Abraham, Rebecca and Nancy, are children of Cakimi, a Potawatamie woman, sister
                    of Topinibe, principal chief of the nation; and six of the sections herein
                    granted, shall be located from the mouth of the Tippecanoe
                    River, down the Wabash River, and the other six
                    (five) sections shall be located at the mouth of Flint
                    River.
            
            "There shall be granted to Perig, a Potawatamie chief, one section of
                    land on the Flint River, where he now lives. There shall also be granted to Mary
                    Chatalie, daughter of Neebosh, a Potawatamie chief, one section of land, to be
                    located below the mouth of Pine River" [page 186].
            Article (3) Treaty at 
                  Chicago,
                            Illinois
               , August 29,
                    1821. "There shall be granted by the 
                        United States
                     to each of the following persons, being all Indian by descent, and
                    to their heirs, the following Tracts of Land:
            "To John Burnet, two sections of land.
            "To James Burnet, Abraham Burnet, Rebecca Burnet, and Nancy Burnet, each
                    one section of land; which said John, James, Abraham, Rebecca, and Nancy, are
                    children of Kaw-kee-me, sister of Top-ni-be, principal chief of the Potawatamie
                    nation.
            "The land granted to the persons immediately preceding shall begin on
                    the north bank of the river 
                        St. Joseph
                    , about two miles from the mouth, and shall extend up and back from
                    the said river for quantity" [page 219].
            At this same treaty there was granted to "Pierre Moran or Peeresh, a
                    Potawatamie Chief, one section of land, and to his children two sections of
                    land, at the mouth of the Elk-heart river."
            "The section of land granted by the Treaty of St. Mary's in
                    1818, to Peeresh or Perig, shall be granted to Jean B. Cicot, son of
                    Pe-say-quot, sister of the said Peeresh, it having been so intended at the
                    execution of the said Treaty" [page 219].
            Pe-say-quot, the sister of Peeresh, was the wife of Zacha-riah Cicott. She is
                    buried at 
                        Independence
                    , 
                        Warren County
                    , Indiana, and her Christian name was Elizabeth. Zachariah Cicott,
                    after this treaty, bought this claim of his son, Jean Baptiste Cicott, and
                    Zachariah laid this claim in 
                        Warren County
                     where his trading post was then located. The present town of
                    Independence is located on this section of land.
            In the treaty made in 
                        Chicago
                    , September 26, 1833, in Schedule "A" (referred to
                    in the Treaty, containing the sums payable to Individuals in lieu of
                    Reservations) there was paid to Martha Burnett (R. A. Forsyth, Trustee),
                    $1000; William  Burnett (B. B.
                    Kercheval, Trustee), $1000 [pages 435 and 436].
            In the treaty of September 27, 1833, the first article is on cession of land.
            Article 1. "The said chiefs and head-men cede to the 
                        United States
                    , all their land situate in the Territory of 
                        Michigan
                     south of the Grand River, being the reservation of the Nota-wasepe
                    of 4 miles square contained in the 3d clause of the 2d article of the treaty
                    made at 
                        Chicago
                    , on the 29th day of August, 1821, and the ninety-nine sections of
                    land contained in the treaty made at 
                        St. Joseph
                     on the 19th day of September, 1827; and also the tract of land on
                        St. Joseph River opposite the town of Niles, and
                    extending to the line of the State of Indiana, on which the village of
                    To-pe-ne-bee and Pokagon are situated, supposed to contain about 49
                    sections" [page 442].
            Schedule "A" referred to in the Article Supplementary to the
                    Treaty containing the sums payable to Individuals, in lieu of Reservations of
                    land, gives to Rebecca Burnett (Edward Brooks, Trustee) $500; Mary
                    Burnett, (Edward Brooks, Trustee) $250; and Martha Burnett (R. A.
                    Forsyth, Trustee) $250 [page 444].
            The Mary Burnett receiving the $250 in schedule "A"
                    of the foregoing treaty was the daughter of Rebecca Burnett and the
                    granddaughter of Kaukeama.
            Isaac Burnett, licensed Indian Trader, died at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , December 1, 1820. The interest he had in 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     was purchased, at the administrator's sale of his
                    property, by his brother, James Burnett at 50 cents an acre.
            John Burnett died in 
                        Carroll County
                    , Indiana, before 1830. Peter Weaver was appointed administrator of
                    his estate, to dispose of his lands in 
                        Tippecanoe County
                    . All of his holdings in 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     were sold to General Fielding Lowery for $2479.94, to
                    pay a promissory note, due August 17, 1817.
            Isaac, Abraham, Jacob, John, and James all died before April 10, 1836, and not
                    one of them were married. Rebecca, who probably married a Burnett, had one
                    daughter, Mary Burnett, who married a man by the name of Francis Palm.
            
            John, Abraham, and Jacob Burnett all died in 
                        Carroll County
                    , Indiana, before 1829.
            Nancy Burnett married John Davis and had two sons, William and Richard Davis, and
                    lived near 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . James and Rebecca lived at or near 
                  Detroit, Michigan
               .
            The following notes are from a true copy from Original Plat in Surveyor
                    General's Office Recorded August 21, 1821. Book A, page 354:
            Outline Plat of Burnetts reservation at the mouth of the Flint Creek in township
                    22 north, range 6 west. Six sections for the Burnetts on Flint
                    River southeast of the 
                        Wabash
                    . Plat dated June 2, 1829. Ed Tiffin, surveyor general; surveyed in
                    1823 by Price L. Kellogg. Section No. 1 in the south west quarter of the
                    reservation was allotted to John Burnett; section two south west corner, to
                    Jacob Burnett; section three east of two, to John Burnett; section six in the
                    north east corner, to Isaac Burnett; section five in the south east corner, to
                    Nancy Burnett; section four between the first and fifth, to Isaac Burnett.
            The six sections at the mouth of the Tippecanoe River were
                    laid off starting one mile up the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     from where it empties into the 
                        Wabash
                     and running a straight line from that point six miles, one mile
                    northwest of the Wabash River and this divided the six
                    sections fronting on the Wabash River and comes very near
                    to Battle Ground, all in 
                        Tippecanoe County
                    . The Burnett's Creek just west of Battle Ground is named
                    for these Burnetts and runs through this last reservation. After the Burnetts
                    left 
                        Fountain County
                    , they probably located near Burnettsville in 
                        White
                    , or 
                        Carroll County
                    .
            The section allotted to Topenebee was finally located as section 31, township 26
                    north, range 9 west, in 
                        Benton County
                    , Indiana. The north branch of Sugar Creek runs through this section
                    and perhaps one half of Sugar Grove was originally on this section of land. It
                    is located southwest of Earl Park.
            Topenebee traded this land to Alexander Coquillard of 
                        South Bend
                     for wagons for the use of his tribe. Alexander Coquillard sold this
                    section to Edward Sumner. At that time 
                    Edward Sumner was living in 
                        Fountain County
                    , on 
                        Shawnee
                    
                    
                        Prairie
                     not far from Newtown. Sumner sold his holding in 
                        Fountain County
                     and moved to this land and finally became the largest land holder
                    and the largest cattle dealer in Indiana. When he died he was worth more than a
                    million dollars. See The Land of the Potawatomi by Elmore
                    Barce, page 104.
            At the time the grant laid at 
                        Independence
                     by Zachariah Cicott was granted to his brother-in-law Peeresh,
                    Peeresh lived on 
                        Flint Creek
                    , 
                        Tippecanoe County
                    , adjoining the Burnetts' reservation and it was intended
                    that this tract of land should be adjacent to the land of the Burnetts, but
                    Cicott was given the right to lay it about his trading post at 
                        Independence
                    , after it came into his possession.
            The section of land allotted to Mary Chatalie was laid in 
                        Warren County
                     just across the river from 
                        Attica
                    . Mary Chatalie first married Jehu P. Wamsley, who himself was half
                    Indian. Wamsley constructed on this section of land the first mill to grind
                    grain in this locality. The stones were turned by hand and Wamsley, being a very
                    large, powerful man ground the grain by hand in this mill for both the Indians
                    and the first white settlers. The mill stones are still in existence and lie in
                    a yard of a farmhouse on the north side of the road leading from 
                        Attica
                     to 
                        Williamsport
                    . Jehu P. Wamsley was the first Master of the Masonic Lodge No. 18,
                    F. & A. M. His picture hangs in the Masonic lodge room at 
                        Attica
                     and can easily be distinguished from any other picture there
                    because in his hand is his gun from which he never parted company. He and Mary
                    Chatalie were divorced, but before the divorce was granted, she conveyed the fee
                    simple of a portion of her reservation to him, reserving to herself a life
                    estate. She afterwards married William Griffith, after whose death the young
                    widow had an interesting escapade with William Parent, a soldier in the War of
                    1812, as well as a soldier of fortune, who was living with his family in 
                        Attica
                     and farming her land in the 
                        Wabash Valley
                     Bottoms. William Parent divorced his wife and married Mary, and his
                    sons, who were grown, farmed the land until Mary died. After her death the heirs
                    of J. P. Wamsley found they owned the fee simple of a part of her landed estate.
                    This brought on a law suit entitled "Parent vs. Wamsley,
                    Administrator," 20th Indiana, page 82.
            
            Jehu P. Wamsley died May 31, 1858, and Mary Parent died childless July 13, 1858.
                    They are both buried, very close together, in the old graveyard in 
                        Attica
                    . The stone that marks the grave of Mary Chatalie is a good grade of
                    stone, not native of this country. It lies flat over her grave and covers it
                    entirely. Under it is a very splendid brick foundation, none of which is exposed
                    to view. The flat stone is, perhaps, four inches higher than the soil about it
                    and on the stone is carved this epitaph: "Here lies Mary Parent,
                    daughter of an Indian Chief, who died July 13, 1858, age 55 years. Erected by
                    William Parent." William Parent was killed by the cars at 
                        Williamsport
                     graveyard just east of 
                        Williamsport
                    .
            Topenebee and all the sons of Kaukeama Burnett, who were old enough to take part
                    in war; Peeresh, the brother-in-law of Cicott, and Neebosh, the father of Mary
                    Chatalie, fought with the Indians in the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and with the British until Tecumseh was killed, in the War of 1812.
            Freedom, to an American citizen, is an inspired word. The very air we breathe
                    seems permeated with its presence. The Potawatomi Indians fully understood the
                    meaning of the word Freedom, and believed that "all men were created
                    equal" and that "honor should be given those only to whom
                    honor was due." Their government, however, was perhaps the only Indian
                    government that was not representative in its form, its chiefs holding their
                    position by reason of the right of heredity. All their wealth and stock belonged
                    to the tribe in common, and they were bound to each other by the strongest bonds
                    of brotherhood. They worshipped the "Great Spirit" whose power
                    they saw and acknowledged in the splendor of the sun, the glories of the night,
                    in the clear springs that bubble forth from the lips of Mother Earth, in the
                    rippling brooks, the fertile valleys, the winding rivers, the clear water of the
                    great lakes, the foliage of the forest, the great waters of the deep and the
                    angry waves of the rivers, lakes and oceans. No important matter was ever
                    undertaken without an appeal to the "Great Spirit." Their
                    religion without creed or "ism," was a religion of
                    "love one another."
            The Indian did not know the value of his land or what the treaties really meant.
                    To the Potawatomi Indians these  treaties
                    meant that they would soon have to leave this beautiful Valley of the 
                        Wabash
                     forever, and somewhere beneath the inverted bowl of heaven,
                    decorated at night with stars, sparkling diamonds above them, find a hunting
                    ground. In the spring time the air was filled with the perfume of blossom, of
                    shrub or vine or tree. Nature, the master mechanic and landscape gardener, had
                    full sway in woods and prairie, hill and valley. As these dusky warriors left
                    the land of their youth forever, the pale face came to take their places, to
                    clear the forest, to cultivate the land, over which they hunted, to build homes,
                    and schools. And now of this mighty tribe there is not a vestige left in
                    Indiana. To quote Mrs. Sigourney, 
                        "Yes, say they have all passed away, That noble race and brave;
                        That their light canoes have vanished From off the crested wave;
                        That 'mid the forests where they roamed There rings no
                            hunter's shout,
                        But their names are on our waters And ye cannot wash them
                        out."
                    
            
         
         
         
            Tri-County Historical Itinerary
            J. W. WHICKCAR, 
                        Attica
                    , Acting as Guide
            STOP NO. 1
            Near the Home of Mr. Orrie Milligan on the Independence Road
            In the act of the legislature creating 
                        Fountain County
                     in the session of 1825 and 1826, the following proceeding relative
                    to what afterwards became 
                        Warren County
                     was made: Section 7. All that part of the County of 
                        Wabash
                     lying north and west of the said County of 
                        Fountain
                    , shall be and hereafter is attached to the said County of 
                        Fountain
                     for the purpose of civil and criminal jurisdiction. Act approved
                    December 30, 1825. 
                        Warren County
                     remained under the jurisdiction of 
                        Fountain County
                     until the session of the legislature in 1826 and 1827, at which
                    session 
                        Warren County
                     was created. Daniel Sigler, of 
                        Putnam County
                    ; James Strange, of 
                        Parke County
                    ; Thomas Lampson, of 
                        Montgomery County
                    ; James Paige, of 
                        Tippecanoe County
                    , and Robert Wilson, of 
                        Vigo County
                    , were appointed commissioners for the purpose of fixing the
                    permanent seat of justice of the new County of 
                        Warren
                    . All of the above named commissioners, with the exception of Mr.
                    Wilson, convened at the home of Enoch Farmer on the first Monday in June, 1827.
            Enoch Farmer's cabin where the commissioners met was one of the first to
                    be constructed in 
                        Warren County
                     as a permanent home for an actual settler and stood within twenty
                    feet of where we are now standing. The little brick spring house here at the
                    north of the road covers the spring where Enoch Farmer got the water for his
                    family; it was this spring of pure, clear water that caused him to build his
                    cabin here. George Hollingsworth had taken up land from the 
                        United States
                     Government adjoining the land of Enoch Farmer  and George Hollingsworth and Enoch Farmer together
                    had planned to lay off a town to be designated as the county seat of 
                        Warren County
                    . The commissioners met at the home of Enoch Farmer as designated in
                    the act and after viewing all of the various eligible sites and taking into
                    consideration the donation of land, money, etc., finally located the county seat
                    on the east fraction of the southwest quarter of section 31, township 22 north,
                    range 7 west. The other sites viewed for the county seat were 
                        Baltimore
                    , 
                        Chesapeake
                    , and 
                        Williamsport
                    . In consideration of the location of the county seat upon this
                    tract of land, George Hollingsworth and Enoch Farmer and other citizens of 
                        Warren
                     and 
                        Fountain
                     counties obligated themselves to donate to the new County of 
                        Warren
                     certain specified lands named in the papers, after the county seat
                    had been permanently located on this land and the payment to the county of
                    certain sums of money to be paid when the cornerstone of the new courthouse was
                    laid. And the town of 
                        Warrenton
                     was laid out by the county agent, Luther Tillotson, early in July,
                    1828, just across the road east from where we are now standing. The original
                    survey consisted of seven full blocks of eight large lots each or fifty-six
                    lots, and a public square of almost two acres, and at the same time four
                    additional half blocks each containing four lots, or sixteen additional lots,
                    were platted. So the town of 
                        Warrenton
                     consisted of a public square containing two acres of land with a
                    street on each of the four sides and seventy-two lots. Perrin Kint, the
                    surveyor, was assisted by Luther Tillotson, county agent, and John Whelchel,
                    Francis Boggs, and Job Tevebaugh. Enoch Farmer assisted in the survey and
                    boarded the men. This survey was ordered in May, 1828, by the Board of County
                    Justices and at the same time they ordered that on the fifth day of August,
                    1828, a certain portion of the lots allotted to the county of 
                        Warren
                     in the town of 
                        Warrenton
                     should be sold at public auction, one-fourth of the purchase price
                    to be paid in advance, and the remainder in three semi-annual installments. At
                    this sale of lots free whiskey was furnished for the occasion at the expense of
                    the county. The lots sold for from ten to twenty dollars a lot according to
                    their location. The cash receipts of the sales were eleven dollars and
                    ninety-four  cents. Francis Boggs was paid
                    seventy-five cents for the whiskey furnished by the county.
            The town of 
                        Warrenton
                     only remained the county seat of 
                        Warren County
                     until January, 1829, when an act of the legislature removed the
                    seat of justice to 
                        Williamsport
                    , to be effective in June following, and in compliance with this
                    act, in June, 1829, the county seat was removed to Williarnsport. All of those
                    who had purchased lots in 
                        Warrenton
                     were permitted to transfer them for lots similarly situated in 
                        Williamsport
                    , and most of the purchasers availed themselves of this provision.
                    No houses were built in 
                        Warrenton
                    , and Enoch Farmer, George Hollingsworth, and all others who had
                    donated land, money, or other property, or service in consideration of having
                    the county seat located at 
                        Warrenton
                    , were released from all obligations.
            About three hundred feet northeast of the location of the town of 
                        Warrenton
                    , on the first day of June, 1791, Colonel John Hardin of 
                        Kentucky
                     with sixty mounted infantry and a troop of light horse cavalry
                    under Captain McCoy fought a battle with the Kickapoo Indians known as the
                    Battle of Kickapoo. Colonel Hardin and his troops had ridden through the high
                    gap with General Charles Scott. Colonel Hardin and Captain McCoy took about four
                    hundred men of an army of seven hundred and fifty which 
                        Scott
                     divided at the foot of the Round Top Hills east of West Point. 
                        Scott
                     and Wilkinson riding with their army three miles northwest and
                    destroying the town of Ouiatenon, and Colonel Hardin and Captain McCoy riding
                    southwest from the place where the army was divided, surprised the Kickapoo
                    Indians, who were hunting along Flint Creek. The Kickapoo Indians immediately
                    started for their permanent camp in this locality. They crossed the
                        Wabash River about a mile north of here at the Kickapoo
                    Ford. This was the best and safest ford along the 
                        Wabash
                     from the mouth of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     to the mouth of the Vermilion River because
                    the river was very wide at this point and had a solid rock bottom. In this
                    battle Hardin knew that he killed six warriors, and he captured a number of
                    warriors, women, and children. This battle was fought about five
                    o'clock in the afternoon, and when Hardin rejoined 
                        Scott
                     and Wilkinson  about one mile
                    east of West Point at the Round Top Hills at eight o'clock in the
                    evening, he had with him fifty-two prisoners.
            William Crumpton, who was the first general merchant in the city of 
                        Attica
                     and who is buried in the old cemetery at 
                        Attica
                    , was with Hardin and took part in this battle, and aftewards came
                    back to look over and help locate the grounds where the battle was fought, and
                    finding that a town was being laid out (now 
                        Attica
                    ) on the opposite side of the river not far from the battleground of
                    Kickapoo, Crumpton decided to locate in the new town, and take his chances with
                    it. He was a very active man and high-class citizen. He founded the Methodist
                    Class in 
                        Attica
                    , in 1829, and was instrumental in bringing about the establishment
                    of the Central Hospital for the Insane at 
                        Indianapolis
                    , the School for the Mutes, and the School for the Blind. He was an
                    active supporter of doctors John Evans and Isaac Fisher, of 
                        Attica
                    , and Doctor Jones, of Covington in establishing these institutions
                    at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            STOP NO. 2
            Rock College
            The schoolhouse located on the west side of the road has always been known as
                    Rock College. One of the first schools taught in 
                        Warren County
                     was taught near here. It derived its name from the large boulder
                    you see on the east side of this highway. This boulder is not as large as the
                    one on the 
                        Harrison Trail
                     which, before it was destroyed, was known as "
                        Harrison
                    's Tea Table". That boulder was perhaps one-third
                    larger than this at Rock College. Since the destruction of "
                        Harrison
                    's Tea Table" this is the largest boulder in 
                        Warren County
                    , and perhaps the largest boulder in the state, brought from the
                    north by the glacier flow.
            STOP NO. 3
            Kate's Pond
            Originally this body of water was known as 
                        Lake Kickapoo
                    . It then covered more than a hundred acres of land and was much
                    deeper than it now is. It is the furthest south of  any of the Indiana lakes, and in the native wild,
                    is said to have been a beautiful lake, full of fish, and a great resort for the
                    Indians. The farmers round about in draining their lands have diverted much of
                    the original shed waters that used to run into this lake carrying it in
                    different directions and away from the lake, thus lowering the water surface of
                    the lake until it now covers but sixty acres of land and is quite shallow. On
                    account of the land's being cleared around it, and the ground broken,
                    the soil washing in is filling the lake. It was called 
                        Lake Kickapoo
                     until 1812, and is only about two hundred feet northwest to
                    Kickapoo Creek, which helped to make it a popular and much frequented camping
                    ground for the Indians. Because the Kickapoo Indians lived along the creek and
                    around this lake, they both received the name of Kickapoo.
            The farmhouse that you see a few rods southeast of here at the last turn in the
                    road and off to the right is situated on a farm of one hundred and twenty acres
                    including a portion of this lake. That house was the home of Dan Claflin who
                    married one of the High girls, a sister to George High. Claflin and his wife
                    were connected with the Redwood Bandits. They were married at Redwood Point in
                    this county and they began housekeeping on the forty acres of land where the
                    town of Pence now stands. This forty acres of land, out on the open prairie, and
                    far removed from any other residence, became one of the most frequented places
                    for both counterfeiters and horse thieves during the time that they flourished
                    in 
                        Warren County
                    . George High was finally captured at Redwood Point by Sant Grey,
                    the founder of the Horse Thief Detective Association, and the members of the
                    Horse Thief Detective Association of both 
                        Warren
                     and 
                        Fountain counties
                    . Dan Claflin was shot through the hip, while George High made his
                    escape. Dan Claflin and his wife and his sister-in-law, Iva High, who afterwards
                    lived in 
                        Attica
                     and owned an interest in this farm, and other members of the High
                    family were convicted and sent to the penitentiary. At the expiration of their
                    term, they bought this tract of one hundred and twenty acres of land, and both
                    Dan Claflin and his wife died in that farmhouse.
            
            There is a legend connected with 
                        Lake Kickapoo
                    , that in 1811 when Zachariah Cicott decided to cast his fortune
                    with General William Henry Harrison and the Americans, he had a sweetheart among
                    the Kickapoo, a very beautiful Indian maiden by the name of Kate, to whom he was
                    very devoted, and she was equally fond of him. When Zachariah Cicott left
                    Independence by special request from 
                        Harrison
                     to serve as a scout for his army, he pledged himself and promised
                    Kate that when the troublesome times were over and the white winged dove of
                    peace hovered over the 
                        Wabash Valley
                    , he would return and make her his wife. Before leaving to join 
                        Harrison
                     he met Kate, who was the only person that knew of his departure and
                    where he was going, and when they finally parted they both looked hopefully
                    forward to the happy culmination of their love affair in their marriage. All the
                    warriors in Kate's tribe and in Kate's family took part in the
                    Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and fought with the Indians there. Some of them were killed. On
                    their return, having seen and recognized Cicott with 
                        Harrison
                     and his army, they decided that Kate had betrayed their confidence,
                    and divulged the secrets of the tribe to Cicott, her lover. Soon after their
                    return from the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     there was a council held which was attended by all of the Kickapoo
                    tribes living near this lake. It was decided that Kate should be put to death by
                    drowning, and in compliance with that decision, Kate was drowned in this lake by
                    her tribe. Since that time it has been known as "Kate's
                    Pond" or "Kate's 
                        Lake
                    ."
            STOP NO. 4
            The highway over which we are now driving should be known as the Potawatomi
                    Trail. It leads from Independence to Pine Village, and nearly the entire way
                    runs over high land making a water shed. Starting from Independence this highway
                    runs northwest to Pine Village and marks the dividing line of the hunting
                    grounds between the Potawatomi and Kickapoo Indians. The hunting grounds of the
                    Kickapoo were south of this trail, and the Potawatomi north. This highway has
                    not been changed two hundred feet from the original Indian Trail. It was the
                    first highway planked and made a toll road in 
                        Warren County
                    .
            
            STOP NO. 5
            On the 
                        Harrison Trail
                    
            
            We are now on the range line, range 8 west of us, range 7 east, and this point is
                    the southwest corner of section 30, township 23 north, range 7 west, 
                        Warren County
                    , Indiana. It is certain that 
                        Harrison
                    's army crossed the range line about thirty feet north of
                    this point, and one of his soldiers, Henry Drummond by name, was buried in the
                    clump of brush on the top of the knoll that you see about forty rods south, and
                    the same distance west of this point. Last fall we followed the trail and marked
                    it from the point where it entered 
                        Warren County
                     to this point, and today we shall finish the journey that we
                    started last fall and follow 
                        Harrison
                    's Trail as closely as we can from here to the 
                        Tippecanoe Battleground
                    .
            STOP NO. 6
            We are again on the Kickapoo Trail. The farmhouse to the right was the home of
                    Clem J. Jones. The Harrison Army crossed the Kickapoo Trail which now makes this
                    highway about forty rods north of here. We will turn to the east near the point
                    where 
                        Harrison
                    's Army crossed this trail.
            STOP NO. 7
            Mound Cemetery
            
               
                        Harrison
                    's Army passed near this cemetery. When we leave here, we
                    will again cross the 
                        Harrison Trail
                     about ten rods north. You may observe that this cemetery is
                    perfectly round and is completely encircled by an improved highway, and it looks
                    as though nature had formed that beautiful mound for a burial place.
            The names chiseled on the tombstones in this cemetery are the same family names
                    as those on the tombstones marking the graves in the 
                        Bethel Cemetery
                     in 
                        Fountain County
                    , four miles east of 
                        Attica
                    . The land around this cemetery was taken up from the government by
                    the same families as those who took up from the government around the 
                        Bethel Cemetery
                    , and many of the people buried in these two cemeteries are fathers,
                         mothers, brothers and sisters, aunts,
                    uncles and cousins of the same families. The stone house a few rods southwest of
                    here, built of native stone, was the home of Samuel Martindale. The stone in
                    that residence is a variegated sandstone with some very delicate and beautiful
                    shadings, and was quarried about three miles from here. When the Martindale
                    house was built, it was considered one of the best and most beautiful farmhouses
                    in the state. The prevailing color of the stone was red. When we turn to the
                    right we will be very near to the 
                        Harrison Trail
                    , which would run northeast from the point where we will turn to the
                    right; from that point we are going east and south to Greenhill, where we will
                    take our dinner, after which we will come back to the 
                        Harrison Trail
                     near the point where 
                        Harrison
                    's Army crossed in going out of 
                        Warren County
                    .
            STOP NO. 8
            Campus of the Greenhill Seminary
            These grounds where we have just taken our dinner and this beautiful grove were
                    originally the campus of the Greenhill Seminary, now the public school of
                    Greenhill. The Seminary was a United Brethren School, and at one time there were
                    living in this little village of Greenhill sixteen United Brethren preachers,
                    who had moved here from all parts of the 
                        Upper Wabash
                     Conference that their children might attend this school. We came
                    here to take our dinner because of the inviting shade of these trees, and the
                    beauty of the ground of this grove with its historic past. On the second Sunday
                    of August each year the students who attended this school have a reunion and
                    home-coming, and at this time old settlers, former residents, and students of
                    the Seminary gather beneath the spreading branches of this grove, and live again
                    the joys of bygone days. In 1828, the first Protestant religious gathering in 
                        Warren County
                     was held at the home of Horatio Bailey, this being the first
                    meeting held north of the Wabash River in western Indiana.
                    At this meeting a United Brethren Class was organized, and it was decided to
                    establish a United Brethren Seminary here later. In 1869 the bricks with which
                    to  construct the building were molded and
                    burnt near where the school building stands. In the early seventies Professor J.
                    B. Stimpson as principal, assisted by the Reverends Joseph Cooper, Joel Cowgill,
                    Thomas M. Hamilton, R. F. Edmundson, and J. M. Bottenberg, and a host of other
                    enterprising citizens, opened the Seminary for students. Among the instructors
                    who taught in this Siminary were Professors Lamb, Cobb, Jackson, Jones, Parks,
                    Hanson, Watson, Thompson, Wagoner, and in the Music Department Lizzie Lynn, Emma
                    Commings, Jennie Newlin, Minnie L. Dubrow, Emma Pretyman, Abigail T. McAdams.
                    Out of this list, Professors Stimpson, Watson, Lynn, and Pretyman are still
                    living.
            In the year 1900 the trustees sold the Seminary property to Medina Township. The
                    Seminary building burned in 1919, and this new Township School Building occupies
                    the ground where the old Seminary stood. Students from this school went forth to
                    all parts of the 
                        United States
                     and located in almost every useful profession and occupation. Among
                    these students is our Reverend O. P. Cooper, who will assist us from here until
                    we reach the end of our journey and show us the spots of historic interest from
                    here to the Battleground. After graduating from this Seminary, Reverend O. P.
                    Cooper immediately began preaching for the United Brethren Church, and is one of
                    the best known and eloquent ministers who took an active part in the old 
                        Upper Wabash
                     Conference. He has served the United Brethren people well in some
                    of their best appointments and was for many years a presiding elder. No one
                    knows the historic places around Greenhill so well as he, and we are fortunate
                    to have him with us this afternoon. Others who graduated from this Seminary
                    were: Ed. Nye, N. W. Cowgill, Hirshey Cheadle, John R. Crask, Ira Crask, John
                    Elwell, Homer Elwell, William Thompson, Jennie Thompson, Freemont Edmundson,
                    Cyras Thompson, George Bailey, Walter Bailey, and many others. After a half
                    century, eighty-five of the young men and women who have attended this
                    institution of learning have passed into the mystic future and rest in the
                    tranquil beauty of Death's majestic and eternal sleep.
            
            STOP NO. 9
            Armstrong Cemetery, One and One-half Miles from Greenhill
            We are now at the grave of General George D. Wagner who in his day and generation
                    was perhaps the most illustrious man that lived in 
                        Warren County
                    . General Wagner was born in 
                        Ohio
                    , moved to 
                        Warren County
                    , Indiana, and to Wagner's Grove with his parents when he
                    was four years of age. He was raised on the farm at Wagner's Grove near
                    here. His father engaged extensively in growing grain and raising live stock.
                    His father was a Whig and a Methodist. General Wagner married Elizabeth
                    Alexander. In 1856, he was elected representative of 
                        Warren County
                     in the lower house of the state legislature as a Republican, being
                    the first Republican representative of 
                        Warren County
                     and one of the first Republicans elected to office in this county.
                    In 1858, he was elected to represent the senatorial district of which this
                    county was a part in the upper house of the state legislature. In 1860, he
                    supported 
                        Lincoln
                     for the nomination and election to the Presidency and when 
                        Lincoln
                     made his first call for troops, General George D. Wagner was one of
                    the first from 
                        Warren County
                     to answer. In 1861, he was commissioned Colonel of the fifteenth
                    Indiana Volunteers, and was soon afterwards promoted to Brigadier-General for
                    bravery and distinguished service, and later was promoted to
                    Brevet-Major-General. On April 26, 1861, he had command of two thousand five
                    hundred troops at the Battle of Shiloh. September 30, 1862, he was in command of
                    his division at the Battle of Stone River, and was instructed to hold the ford.
                    His orders to his men were: "Fix bayonets and hold your
                    ground." They held their ground, and they held the ford. Upon the ford
                    as a center or pivot, the entire army oscillated from front to rear for hours,
                    but General George D. Wagner and his command held the ford. September 10, 1863,
                    he again distinguished himself at Chicka-mauga, and was ever afterwards known as
                    the "Hero of Chickamauga." October 25, 1863, he led the
                    valiant charge up Missionary Ridge. In April, 1864, he was with his command in
                    the 
                        Atlanta
                     campaign and again won honors and distinction at
                    Kenesaw and Lookout Mountains. In
                    September,  1864, he was ordered with his
                    division to Chattanooga and continued in the 
                        Tennessee
                     campaign, taking an honorable and distinguished part in the
                    hard-fought battle of 
                        Franklin
                    . Soon after this battle, on account of the continued illness of his
                    wife he retired from the service to be at her bedside. His wife died in 1865.
                    Immediately after this he located at 
                        Williamsport
                    , in the practice of law, the hero of nineteen battles. He soon
                    gained distinction in his chosen profession, and became one of the leading
                    lawyers of western Indiana. He was a very prominent Free Mason. For several
                    years after the war he was president of the State Agricultural Society. In
                    personal appearance he was one of the finest looking men in the state of
                    Indiana. He was six feet and four inches tall, had dark brown eyes, full high
                    forehead, with black hair and beard. John A. Logan alone made a more pleasing
                    appearance as a commander on horseback. Wagner weighed two hundred and twenty
                    pounds and was not so active as Logan. He was appointed Minister to Berlin and
                    was making arrangements to fill this appointment when he became suddenly ill and
                    died after a few days of sickness, when not yet forty years of age.
            No General in the Civil War served his country with more glory and more credit to
                    himself and more honor to the state of Indiana' than General George D.
                    Wagner. His death had for 
                        Warren County
                     a pathos all its own. His comrades in arms worshiped at his shrine,
                    and hoped that his life's sun would not sink until the closing of the
                    twilight of a long and cloudless day, that he would have meted out to him a long
                    and successful race in life in which to enjoy the honor and the glory of his
                    splendid, brave, and distinguished service to his country in the peril of war
                    and with his life undimmed he could approach the House appointed for all the
                    earth. Even yet we deplore his unfinished career, and the unperfected fame of
                    one whose loss implants in the universal heart a feeling of disappointment and
                    sorrow—sorrow that so early in his earthly life he was called upon to
                    put on the garments of immortality; disappointment that a patriot was not
                    permitted to fulfill the duties he was called upon to perform.
            We are now at the grave of the Reverend James Killin who  was born June 3, 1814, and died February 29, 1880.
                    He first settled in 
                        Logan
                     Township about three miles northeast of 
                        Attica
                    , and was a local preacher of the Methodist faith, one of forty
                    preachers licensed to preach at 
                        Bethel
                    . While in 
                        Fountain County
                     he operated a stone quarry in which all the old sandstone monuments
                    now marking the graves of the pioneers over a very large portion of the state of
                    Indiana were made. While in the 
                        Bethel
                     neighborhood, he was one of the charter members of a Temperance
                    Society, which was the first secret society founded in 
                        Fountain County
                    .
            We are now at the grave of John N. Holloway who was at one time a very prominent
                    lawyer in 
                        Danville
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    . He married a daughter of the Reverend Calbrath Hall, a noted
                    Methodist preacher of West Lebanon. Holloway was shot, on April 16, 1887, by a
                    neighbor by the name of Downs, about a mile north of Greenhill, over a dispute
                    of the title of thirty acres of land. He lived three days after three bullets
                    entered his heart. At the time of his death he was forty-eight years of age.
                    Henrietta, his wife, lived until April 13, 1913, when she died at the age of
                    seventy-six years.
            STOP NO. 10
            Pond Grove Cemetery
            This ground was originally an island. The marsh land completely encircling this
                    cemetery on the east and the south was originally a very large marsh covering
                    about one thousand acres of land, where wild cranberries grew and ripened, and
                    on this account it was known as the Cranberry Marsh. The island on which we are
                    now standing was covered with timber, and was known as Pond Grove, being a grove
                    in the marsh or pond. In this county just north of Independence was another
                    marsh very much like this one and about the same size, in which cranberries
                    grew, and also known as the Cranberry Marsh. They were two separate marshes with
                    their drainage in different outlets. This marsh where we now are was called the
                    Pond Grove Cranberry Marsh, and in the early thirties the United Brethren
                    denomination built a church and a parsonage here in the Pond Grove, and laid out
                    this cemetery  on the ground they owned. Many
                    of the people buried here were active in the establishment of the United
                    Brethren Church in 
                  Warren, Benton
               , and 
                        Tippecanoe counties
                    .
            We are now standing at the grave of William Brown. He was of German descent, born
                    in 1796, and died in 1868. He was one of the early bishops in the United
                    Brethren Church. In the pioneer days he was a very prominent and capable
                    preacher who took an active part in establishing the United Brethren Church in
                    the state of Indiana.
            Here is the grave of Levi D. Brown also a minister in the United Brethren Church
                    and a grandson of Bishop William Brown. He was one of the first men to enlist in
                    the Civil War in 
                        Warren County
                    . He was shot in the mouth, the ball passing downward and coming out
                    at the back of his neck. He was brought home to die, and hovered for eight
                    months between life and death, but finally recovered.
            This is the grave of David Brown. He, too, was a minister in the United Brethren
                    Church and a son of Bishop William Brown, and the father of Levi D. Brown.
            Here is the grave of the Reverend Oliver Hadley. His wife was the daughter of
                    David Brown, sister of Levi D. Brown, and granddaughter of Bishop William Brown,
                    all ministers of the United Brethren Church. This Reverend Oliver D. Hadley was
                    the first missionary of the United Brethren Denomination gent to Africa, where
                    he contracted a lingering fever and came back to America, hoping to recover, but
                    died three days after he arrived in the 
                        United States
                    .
            Bishop William Brown, who is buried here, was an uncle of Simon Brown, a United
                    Brethren preacher who established 
                        Brown
                    's Chapel near 
                        Portland Arch
                     in 
                        Fountain County
                    . The class is still in existence. The old church burned a few years
                    ago, and a new church was erected in a new location and is now known as
                    Newcastle. The Reverend Simon Brown afterwards became a lecturer for the
                    Spiritualists, and was one of the founders of the Progressive Friends Church,
                    located in 
                        Shawnee Township
                    , 
                        Fountain County
                    , erected in 1864, which was the first Spiritualist church built in
                    Indiana.
            This is the grave of 
                        Otterbein
                    
                    
                        Brown
                    , a son of the Reverend William Brown. His father named him for
                    Philip W. Otterbein,  the founder of the
                    United Brethren Church. The town of Otterbein, a mile and a one-half north of
                    here, was named in honor of Mr. Brown. 
                        Otterbein
                    
                    
                        Brown
                    , like his cousin, Simon Brown, became a Spiritualist, and he was
                    active in preaching the doctrine of Spiritualism in this locality as his father
                    had been in establishing the United Brethren Church here.
            This is the grave of the Reverend Joseph S. Cooper, born May 28, 1825, died
                    November 7, 1908, and his wife, Ellen Mikles Cooper, who died May 22, 1920. He
                    began preaching for the United Brethren Church in 
                        Montgomery County
                    , Indiana, in 1862, and continued in active service until he died in
                    1908. He was an eloquent preacher, a well-read and scholarly man, and one of the
                    most popular preachers in the 
                        Upper Wabash
                     Conference. He did more perhaps than any other one man to establish
                    the United Brethren faith in Northwestern Indiana, and when living was perhaps
                    acquainted over a larger territory and with more people in Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     than any preacher in the 
                        Upper Wabash
                     Conference. From what we have learned from these graves, we can
                    readily see that this is a United Brethren Cemetery.
            This is the grave of Dr. Hemrighouse who was a graduate of two of the best
                    medical colleges in 
                        Germany
                    , and after coming to the 
                        United States
                     was graduated from two medical colleges here. His home was just
                    across the road north of this graveyard, and while living here and practicing as
                    a country doctor, he was perhaps called in consultation more than any physician
                    in northwestern Indiana. He was considered one of the best surgeons in the state
                    of Indiana and enjoyed a very splendid local practice.
            STOP NO. 11
            Near Otterbein
            (1)
            We are about thirty rods south of the southeast corner of 
                        Benton County
                     and this highway is the dividing line between 
                        Warren
                     and 
                        Tippecanoe counties
                    . We are very near where the Harrison Army left 
                        Warren County
                     and entered Tippe  canoe County.
                    On the return trip one of 
                        Harrison
                    's soldiers was buried in 
                        Warren County
                     just after they crossed from 
                        Tippecanoe
                     within forty rods of where we are now standing.
            (2)
            We are now about a mile and one-half east of the 
                        Warren County
                     line in 
                        Tippecanoe County
                     and nearly east of the south line of 
                        Benton County
                    . We have come here because of the marker that you see on the east
                    side of this highway, directing us to the position of 
                        Harrison
                    's Camp. This marker was erected by a Mr. Wilson of 
                        Lafayette
                    , and Ben Magee who lived near here. In going to the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     this was the camp where 
                        Harrison
                    's Army took their dinner, and on returning this was the
                    first stop where again they ate dinner. From here we will go to Montmorenci and
                    from there straight east, passing the Soldiers' Home to the left, where
                    to the right you may see the grounds and the graveyard of the Indiana
                    Soldiers' Home, and we will come on to the Tecumseh Trail at the bottom
                    of the hill about two miles north of the Soldiers' Home.
            STOP NO. 12
            The Prophet's Rock
            The broken piece of cemented gravel lying north of the highway is what was called
                    "The Prophet's Rock." It was a part of a cemented
                    ledge of gravel, and upon it the Prophet stood and directed the battle. To our
                    right along the edge of the timber is Burnett's Creek. Between the
                    place where "Prophet's Rock" then stood and the creek
                    was a large marsh, through which the Indians crawled to the battleground. From
                    here you can see the monument that marks the battleground beyond the trees
                    lining the far bank of Burnett's Creek. 
                        Harrison
                    's Army marched about a half mile west of where we are now
                    standing and around this marsh, coming into the battleground from the north. The
                    Prophet stood on this rock and gave his commands to the Indians. His voice could
                    be plainly heard above the roar of the guns and cannons, and it is said that on
                    a clear evening his voice would carry for two miles so plainly that one could
                    understand what he was saying that distance away. When the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     was fought,  Tecumseh was in the
                    state of 
                        Alabama
                    , and a chief called the 
                        White Loon
                     was in command of the Indians.
            The Battleground
            The 
                        Tippecanoe Battleground
                     is so well known in the history of Indiana and so many able
                    historians have written up the incidents that took place here that it would be
                    useless for us to attempt at this time to relate anything of this battle. But I
                    shall tell you something of Tecumseh.
            Tecumseh's father was a 
                        Shawnee
                     Indian. The 
                        Shawnee
                     were one of the tribes of the great Algonquin family.
                    Tecumseh's mother was one of the Creek Indians who were one of the
                    tribes in the great southern family of Indians called the Muskogens. The account
                    related by Simon Kenton and vouched for by John Johnston and Anthony Shane is
                    that Tecumseh, Laulewasikaw, the Prophet, and a third brother, Kunshaukau, were
                    triplets, that Tecumseh was the youngest or last born of the three; that this
                    event so extraordinary among the Indian tribes with whom a double birth or twins
                    is quite uncommon, struck the minds of the Indians as supernatural and marked
                    the triplets with the prestige of future greatness.
            In the fall of 1807, all the Indians in the northwestern territory including the 
                        Miami
                    , Potawatomi, Kickapoo, Delawares, Winnebago, Fox, Sac, in fact all
                    the tribes of the northwestern territory, held a conference beneath the
                    spreading branches of a magnificent oak tree that stood within the corporation
                    limits of the city of 
                        Attica
                    . This conference was held with the 
                        Shawnee
                    . Prior to this time the 
                        Shawnee
                     had been a tribe of nomads, a wandering tribe of Indians. The white
                    men first found them along the eastern shores of 
                        Lake
                     Huron. Next they found them at 
                        Shawnee
                     Town, on the banks of the Ohio River in
                    southern 
                        Illinois
                    . Then they were in 
                        Tennessee
                     and next they were along the Suwanee River in 
                        Florida
                     and 
                        Georgia
                    . Soon afterwards they were in 
                        Ohio
                     and when they came to this conference, they were living near 
                        Greenville
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . The object of this conference was to have the tribe of Indians
                    then possessing the northwestern territory allot to the 
                        Shawnee
                     a territory for a hunting ground some  where near the central part of the northwest
                    territory. The territory drained by the 
                        Shawnee Creek
                     south and east of the Wabash River and a
                    territory twenty miles up the Tippecanoe River adjoining
                    the territory across the river from the mouth of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and twenty miles on either side of the Tippecanoe
                    River was allotted to the 
                        Shawnee
                     at this conference for their hunting grounds. This location was
                    suited exactly to Tecumseh's idea of forming a confederation of all the
                    Indian tribes, as this territory was adjacent to the hunting grounds of all the
                    various Indian tribes in the northwestern territory. Zachariah Cicott and a
                    small number of Indians in every tribe opposed the granting of this hunting
                    ground to the 
                        Shawnee
                    . Tecumseh and the Prophet and about forty 
                        Shawnee
                     Indians came to the hunting ground allotted them in the spring of
                    1808, and located at the Prophet's Town, near the mouth of the
                        Tippecanoe River and only a short distance east of this
                    battleground. Zachariah Cicott viewed the corning of the 
                        Shawnee
                     as a bad omen. He had become acquainted with the Southern Indians
                    and he knew that Tecumseh's hope of a confederation of all the Indians
                    both north and south was inspired by British gold. In the spring of 1808,
                    Zachariah Cicott, then a young man twenty-six years of age, being acquainted
                    with the Chickasaw, and Chocktaw, Semi-nole, and other tribes of Muskogen
                    families immediately went south, and spent a year or more among the Muskogens,
                    warning them against an alliance with Tecumseh and the 
                        Shawnee
                    , and pointing out to them the danger of their accepting
                    Tecumseh's plan of the confederacy. He succeeded in winning the
                    principal chief of the Muskogen tribes, Pushmataha, and prepared him to meet the
                    arguments of Tecumseh. When Tecumseh came south on his mission of confederacy in
                    1811, and 1812, there was only one of the Muskogen tribes who joined
                    Tecumseh's confederacy and took part with the British in the War of
                    1812; this was his mother's tribe, the Creek.
            Tecumseh made two trips south in his efforts to make a confederation of all the
                    Indian tribes, the first, in the fall of 1811. He was in 
                        Alabama
                     when the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     was fought, and did not learn of the battle and its results until
                    he reached the 
                        Miami
                     Camp near 
                        Shawnee Mound
                     on his way  to the
                    Prophet's Town at the mouth of the Tippecanoe
                    River. When he reached Prophet's Town, there was but one
                    Indian squaw left in the town, who was taking care of her son who had been
                    seriously wounded in the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . The son lived to tell the story of Tecumseh's return to
                    Solon Robinson, one of the first settlers in 
                        Lake County
                    , Indiana. From the Prophet's Town, Tecumseh went
                    immediately to 
                        Detroit
                     where he joined the British Army.
            In 1812, at the request of the British, Tecumseh made a second trip to try to
                    secure the assistance of the Muskogens, and persuade them to join him and the
                    British Army, but Zachariah Cicott's argument and representation to the
                    Muskogens in 1808 had prepared them for Tecumseh's visits in 1811 and
                    1812. On his return south in 1812, he had been promoted by the British and was a
                    Major-General in the British Army, which position he held until he was killed in
                    the Battle of the Thames on the fifth day of October, 1813.
            Immediately after his death, the Indians no longer hearing the voice of their
                    faithful commander, laid down their arms and deserted the British Army. His body
                    was easily distinguished on account of his perfect physique. He was buried on
                    the battlefield by the American soldiers.
            Perhaps Zachariah Cicott knew Tecumseh and the Prophet and their aims and
                    purposes better than any one then living. He considered Tecumseh a tool of the
                    British, possessed of but little originality; expressing in his speeches the
                    objects and sentiments only as they had been previously placed in his mouth by
                    the British officials, and he viewed the Prophet as having more natural ability
                    than Tecumseh, but as a demented man and a religious fanatic.
            Perhaps the visit of Zachariah Cicott to the Muskogen tribes of Indians in the
                    southern states in 1808 had much to do in determining Pushmataha, the Chocktaw
                    chief, in deciding to cast his lot with the Americans in the War of 1812. In
                    this war Pushmataha took an active part and he did valiant service, and for his
                    service rendered to the 
                        United States
                     of America in this war, he was elevated to the position of a
                    Major-General in the 
                        United States
                     Army. He served during  the War
                    of 1812 with his Indian warriors of the Muskogen tribes under General Andrew
                    Jackson, and he and 
                        Jackson
                     became fast friends. Pushmataha often visited the city of 
                        Washington
                     after the war, and he became personally acquainted with a great
                    many of the leading statesmen and national characters at that time. He was
                    deeply interested in the education of his people, and of the annuity allowed him
                    for his service in the War of 1812 by the 
                        United States
                     Government he devoted two thousand dollars each year for fifteen
                    years toward the support of the Chocktaw School System.
            In the late fall of 1824, he visited the city of 
                        Washington
                     in the interest of the Indian tribes in the southern states, and on
                    the evening of December 23 of that year, he was a guest of General Marquis de 
                        Lafayette
                     at the hotel where 
                        Lafayette
                     was stopping in 
                        Washington
                    . After a delightful evening with the Marquis and his friends,
                    Pushmataha on his way home became sick with the croup and died on December 24,
                    1824, in the sixtieth year of his age.
            He was buried in the National Cemetery at 
                        Arlington
                    . A procession three miles in length followed his remains to the
                    grave, and thousands of people stood along the road of the funeral march to show
                    their respect to him. He was buried with military honors, and General Marquis de
                    Lafayette, President James Monroe and his cabinet, and members of the 
                        United States
                     Congress stood about his grave with uncovored heads when his body
                    was lowered into the ground. It is a strange coincidence that Tecumseh was the
                    only Indian ever elevated to the position of a Major-General in the British
                    Army, and Pushmataha was the only Indian ever elevated to the position of
                    Major-General in the Army of the 
                        United States
                     of America. The 
                        United States
                     of America is in no way indebted to Tecumseh, but we do owe
                    Pushmataha a debt Of gratitude that we can never repay. "Honor should
                    be given to whom honor is due." The difference in the life, character,
                    and the last end of these two Indian chiefs should lead us Americans to hold
                    before our children in our public schools the great Chocktaw chief, Pushmataha,
                    who towers above all others in his prowess as a soldier, in his eloquence and
                    his  loyalty to his tribe, his people, and
                    his country, love for his nation and his race, and his willingness to sacrifice
                    all for his government and his tribe.
            As we finished our journey and our visit to the 
                        Tippecanoe battleground
                     and were ready to start home, the Historical Society of 
                        Miami County
                     came on the grounds, and with them was the remnant of the 
                        Miami
                     tribe of Indians who yet linger in 
                        Miami County
                    , the descendants of Francis Slocum and Meshinglamasey and the
                    Godfroy chiefs. They had with them two medals both cast from pure silver, one a
                    little larger than the other, the larger one to a chief and the smaller one to a
                    warrior, presented to two members of the tribe by the 
                        United States
                     Government for service and merit. On one side of the medals was a
                    picture of Andrew Jackson, and on the other side clasped hands. The designs on
                    both medals were the same. They had with them bows and arrows with which they
                    engaged in a shooting match. They first shot the arrows over the monument, and
                    then a Mr. Jackson, of 
                        Lafayette
                    , and a young 
                        Miami
                     chief by the name of Godfroy made a longdistance shot to see which
                    could shoot farthest with his bow and arrows. Mr. Jackson won over Chief Godfroy
                    by a distance of nine feet. This ended the marking of the 
                        Harrison Trail
                     by the 
                  Benton, Warren
               , and 
                        Fountain
                     Historical Society, June 7, 1925.
         
         
         
            Early 
                        Elkhart County
                     History
            By H. S. K. BARTHOLOMEW, 
                        Goshen
                    
            
            President, 
                        Elkhart County
                     Historical Society
            The first white man who ever saw 
                        Elkhart County
                     and afterward became a resident of the county was Colonel John
                    Jackson. In 1812 Colonel Jackson was sent from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     with a detachment of Governor Meigs' troops, to pursue the
                    Indians, who had been committing depredations upon the frontier settlements of
                    northern Indiana. The troops came as far as 
                        Elkhart
                     prairie and on the south side of the prairie they found the village
                    of Aubenaubee, from which the Indians had fled upon the approach of the
                    soldiers. The village was destroyed, together with about seventy acres of corn.
                    This village was located upon land which afterward became the Mark B. Thompson
                    farm; from him it passed into the hands of his son, the Honorable John E.
                    Thompson, who lived there until he died in 1915. The land now is owned and
                    occupied by Edward Schlueter.
            After destroying the village, Colonel Jackson camped a half mile east of its
                    site. When he arose on the following morning and saw the sun shining over the
                    prairie he thought it was the most beautiful landscape he had ever seen, and he
                    resolved that he would sometime make that place his home. After satisfying
                    himself that he had sufficiently terrified the Indians to prevent further
                    depredations on their part, he returned to 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and rejoined that portion of the army which was still there. After
                    the War of 1812 was over he returned to his home in 
                        Ross County
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    , where he remained fifteen years longer.
            During the years 1822–24, the Reverend Isaac McCoy, a Baptist
                    missionary, and his wife, Christiana McCoy, passed through this country several
                    times, traveling from 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                     to the Carey mission, not far from the
                    present city of Niles. Their route was the old Indian trail which ran in a
                    northwesterly direction from the southeast corner of the county to the northwest
                    corner. The Reverend Mr. McCoy in his History of Baptist
                    Missions mentions one of his trips from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to the mission, which took six weeks. On one of his journeys he
                    discovered Christiana Creek, which he named in honor of his wife.
            In 1828 Colonel Jackson learned that the land of northern Indiana had been
                    acquired from the Indians and had been thrown open to settlement. He again
                    visited this section, going as far as the Carey mission, and returned to the
                    prairie and to the spot which sixteen years before he had selected for his home.
                    He returned to 
                        Ohio
                     and in the spring of 1829 he came a third time, this time prepared
                    to put out a spring crop. When he reached the spot which he had chosen for
                    himself, he found that Elias Riggs and his son-in-law, William Simpson, had
                    taken possession and built a cabin. The Colonel was greatly disappointed and
                    thought he would be compelled to locate somewhere else. Finally arrangements
                    were made whereby Riggs and Simpson gave up their claim and moved a mile or so
                    northeast, Colonel Jackson paying them $50. It might be added here
                    that Elias Simpson, a son of William Simpson, was the first white child born in 
                        Elkhart County
                    . He died at the age of seven years.
            Colonel Jackson at once took an active interest in every movement for the welfare
                    of the community. The first school concerning which there is any positive
                    information, was held in his abandoned cabin. He secured the location of the
                    first post-office in the county; the settlers having been compelled for a time
                    to go to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , over fifty miles distant, for their mail. He was one of the
                    county's first justices of the peace and served as a member of the
                    board of justices in 1830. The following year he was elected a member of the
                    first board of county commissioners. In 1842 he was elected as a member of the
                    legislature and served his constituents capably and faithfully. For over
                    forty-four years he was one of the foremost citizens of the county, dying on the
                    9th of July, 1873, at the ripe age of eighty-three years. The youngest child of
                    Col. Jackson, Mrs. Anna Thompson, is still living  at the age of 88 years. She is the widow of Hon.
                    John E. Thompson. Although physically quite feeble, her mind is still bright and
                    active. She remembers hearing her father tell where the village of Aubenaubee
                    was located and it was from her that the information concerning its exact
                    location was obtained. She resides in 
                        New Paris
                    .
            Soon after Colonel Jackson, came Mark B. Thompson, who entered the land upon
                    which the Indian village stood which had been destroyed. About the same time
                    came Major John W. Violett, who settled three miles northwest of them and just
                    north of the present village of 
                        Waterford
                    . Others who came to that part of the county in the years 1829 and
                    1830 were the families of Cripes and Weybrights, Oliver Crane, James Frier, Azel
                    Sparklin, William Latta and Balser Hess. There were a number of others, making
                    quite a little settlement on the prairie and in the edge of the timber along its
                    west side.
            There was also a settlement made about the same time near the junction of the
                        Elkhart and St. Joseph rivers, the
                    site of the present city of 
                        Elkhart
                    . Among those who settled there were Chester Sage, George Crawford,
                    Eli and Arminius Penwell, Thomas Thomas, Joseph Coe and Jesse Rush, all of whom
                    were well known in the early days of the county. These two little settlements
                    were soon to have an active part in the affairs of the county.
            The legislature of 1829–30 passed an act, which was approved by the
                    governor January 29, 1830, entitled "An act for the formation of the
                    counties of 
                        St. Joseph
                     and 
                        Elkhart
                    ." That portion of the law relating to 
                        Elkhart County
                     provided for the appointment of five commissioners to select a site
                    for the location of a seat of justice for the county. The commissioners named
                    for this purpose were William G. Ewing and Hugh Hanna, of 
                        Allen County
                    ; John Bishop and Samuel Fleming, of 
                        Wayne County
                    , and John Bennett, of 
                        Delaware County
                    . They were instructed to meet at the residence of 
                        Chester Sage
                    , near the mouth of the Elkhart River, on the
                    fourth Monday in May, 1830, and proceed to the discharge of the duties assigned
                    to them.
            In accordance with the provisions of this act, the commissioners met on May 24,
                    1830, at the place designated. After  making
                    an inspection of several sites, they met again, May 26, to make a report of
                    their proceedings. As there was at that time no organized county government and
                    no county officers to receive their report, they adjourned to meet again July
                    12. In the interval steps had been taken toward organizing the county and
                    establishing a local government. The act already referred to, which authorized
                    the formation of a county, also provided for holding an election of county
                    officers and for electing three justices of the peace who should have general
                    supervision of the county business. An election was held, but the records do not
                    seem to show the date. The three justices elected at that time, upon whom
                    devolved the responsibility of organizing the county government, were James
                    Mather, Arminius C. Penwell and John Jackson. By another provision of the act of
                    the legislature the residence of 
                        Chester Sage
                     was designated as the place for them to meet. The justices met June
                    28, 1830, and organized themselves into a board as the law provided, electing
                    James Mather president of the board. After transacting the business that came
                    before it, the board adjourned to meet in special session July 13, following.
            Each of the two groups of settlers already mentioned had used its influence to
                    secure the location of the county seat. The prairie group desired that it be
                    located near the center of the county, and the group at "the
                    forks" of the two rivers wished it to be located there. At the special
                    meeting of the board of justices July 13, 1830, the commissioners reported that
                    they had inspected the several sites proposed for a county seat, but did not
                    choose either of the sites here mentioned. Instead, they selected a site
                    approximately half-way between the two, it being a part of the southwest quarter
                    of section 24, in Township 37 north, Range 5 east. The place selected is on the
                    north side of the Elkhart River, west of the present Sugar
                    Grove schoolhouse in 
                        Concord
                     Township. In an early day the land was purchased by Daniel Spohn,
                    Sr., and was the boyhood home of Ex-Mayor Samuel F. Spohn, of 
                        Goshen
                    , and Dr. George W. Spohn, of 
                        Elkhart
                     (now of 
                        California
                    ), two of 
                        Elkhart County
                    's most prominent citizens.
            Colonel Jackson expressed the opinion, which was also held by a number of other
                    settlers who were familiar with the 
                    transactions of the commissioners, that they were influenced in their choice by
                    W. G. Ewing, one of their number. Ewing was a standing candidate for the
                    legislature and did not wish to offend either group of settlers. This county was
                    at that time a part of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     legislative district.
            The location selected displeased everybody but one man, John Andrews, who shortly
                    afterward erected a brewery in that vicinity. Both groups of settlers decided to
                    petition for a relocation of the county seat and their petition was granted.
                    About that time it was learned that a similar situation existed in 
                        St. Joseph County
                    . The county seat of that county had been located about six miles
                    below the present city of 
                        South Bend
                    , which also led to a petition for a relocation. The prairie
                    settlers in this county ascertained by some means or other that they could
                    secure an advantage by uniting with those at 
                        South Bend
                    . A petition was presented to cut off a strip three miles wide from
                    the west side of 
                        Elkhart County
                     and attach it to 
                        St. Joseph County
                    . The petition was granted. This brought the site of the prairie
                    settlers very near the exact geographical center of 
                        Elkhart County
                     and it also brought the 
                        South Bend
                     site nearer the center of 
                        St. Joseph County
                    . The prairie settlers had another advantage. Their site was on
                    government land, which, by virtue of a law passed by Congress in 1824, was
                    subject to preemption for county seat purposes. The other site was on an Indian
                    reservation which belonged to a Frenchman, Pierre Moran, who had married an
                    Indian squaw. Moran had sold the site to a man named Godfrey, but had not given
                    a good title to it, and the matter was then in litigation.
            After granting the petition for a relocation, the legislature of
                    1830–31 passed an act, approved February 10, 1831, entitled
                    "An act for the relocation of the county seat of 
                        Elkhart County
                    ." Another set of commissioners was named. These were to
                    examine the site which had been previously selected and also such other sites as
                    might be considered eligible for a county seat and decide whether or not the
                    public interest demanded a relocation. The commissioners appointed were L. G.
                    Thompson and Anthony L. Davis, of 
                        Allen County
                    ; Hiram Todd and Walter Wilson, of 
                        Cass County
                    , and David Miller, of 
                        St. Joseph County
                    . They were instructed to meet at the  mouth of the Elkhart River on
                    the third Monday in March, 1831, and to proceed immediately to the discharge of
                    their duties. The records of the board of justices shows that but three of the
                    commissioners were present. These were Anthony L. Davis, L. G. Thompson and
                    David Miller. As they constituted a quorum, they proceeded to view the several
                    sites and make a selection.
            By this time the prairie settlement had grown to be stronger in numbers than the
                    other, and they determined to make every effort to secure the location of their
                    choice. It had been arranged that all who were interested should be on hand at
                    the appointed time. Several of them had become acquainted with Mr. Thompson and
                    Mr. Davis and were to use whatever influence they could with those two. Mr.
                    Miller, the third commissioner, was a member of the Dunkard church, as were
                    Messrs. Weybright and Cripe, and they were to use their influence with him.
            In describing the transaction, Colonel Jackson says: 
                        At length the time arrived. All were present according to arrangement.
                            Old Father Cripe invited the commissioners to dinner at his home. I also
                            was invited. He brought out a little keg of wine that he had for his own
                            use (being an old man) and treated us all.
                        George Crawford was our most prominent opponent. After viewing the
                            different sites proposed, as also the site of the first location, and
                            after hearing some loud speeches from the different parties, the
                            commissioners agreed unanimously to relocate and establish the county
                            seat at its present location.
                        The place had no name, and the next question was, "What should
                            it be called?" Some proposed one name, some another. Major
                            Violett proposed Savannah (synonymous with prairie) which name suited me
                            very well. David Miller, one of the commissioners, proposed 
                                Goshen
                             and the county justices, of whom I was one, agreed
                            unanimously to call it by that name in honor of David Miller.
                    
                
            The commissioners did not submit their official report to the board of justices
                    until the 26th of May, 1831. At that time they reported that they had examined
                    the several sites under consideration, including the one previously selected,
                    and recommended that it be vacated and the county seat relocated. The site which
                    they selected was described as the south fraction of the northeast quarter and
                    the north fraction of the northeast quarter of section 6, in Township 36 north,
                    Range 6 east. The record shows further that the commissioners  recommended 
                        Goshen
                     as a suitable name to be given to the town which should be built at
                    the proposed seat of justice. This report was accepted and approved and the name
                    of 
                        Goshen
                     was officially given to the site which had been selected. The
                    meeting at which this report was made to the board of justices was held at the
                    residence of Thomas Thomas. While the county seat had been definitely located,
                    troubles were not all over. The land had to be entered at once, as the land
                    sales were to be held soon and there was danger that somebody might buy the new
                    county seat site. Nobody in the community had any money and the situation was
                    discouraging. Again fortune favored the prairie settlers. Samuel Hanna, who was
                    an opponent of W. G. Ewing for the legislature, when passing from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to 
                        South Bend
                    , stopped overnight with Colonel Jackson. The Colonel told him of
                    the situation and he voluntarily offered to lend the necessary sum of money
                    until the town was laid out and enough lots sold to pay it back. Colonel Jackson
                    gave his individual note for the money. The next day he started for 
                        Fort Wayne
                     on horseback and entered the land.
            Although the county seat was located in 1831, the first courthouse was not
                    completed, until 1833. The first session of the circuit court held in the county
                    was held at the residence of 
                        Chester Sage
                    , in accordance with a provision of the law which authorized the
                    formation of the new county. That session convened November 30, 1830, and was
                    held by the two newly elected associate judges, William Latta and Peter Diddy.
                    But one session was held at the 
                        Chester Sage
                     residence, the court availing itself of the authority granted it to
                    remove to other places for holding its sessions. The second session was held at
                    the residence of Thomas Thomas, the county clerk, about three miles east of the
                    site of the present city of 
                        Elkhart
                    , on what is known as Two-Mile Plain. At this session the Honorable
                    Charles H. Test, the president judge, presided, and the two associate judges
                    were also present. The third term was held at the residence of James Frier on 
                        Elkhart
                        Prairie
                    , known at that time as 
                        Elkhart
                     Plain. This place has been known for three-quarters of a century as
                    the McConaughy farm and is now owned and occupied by Leonard McConaughy, a
                    grandson of Mr. Frier. According to tradition,  the session was held under the trees in front of the log house in which Mr.
                    Frier lived at that time. The fourth term of the court was held at the residence
                    of 
                        Henry Dusenberry
                    , located at the northeast corner of 
                        Maine
                     and 
                        Washington
                     streets in 
                        Goshen
                    . The court records do not state where the fifth term was held. The
                    sixth term convened at the home of 
                        Henry Dusenberry
                    . Why the sessions were not continued there is explained in the
                    following item copied from the court records: 
                        The court met at the house of 
                                Henry Dusenberry
                             May 20, 1833. Present: Hon. Gustavus A. Everts, president
                            judge; William Latta and Peter Diddy, associate judges; Thomas Thomas,
                            clerk; James Beck, sheriff of said county. The sheriff informed the
                            court that a new court house is now in readiness for the reception of
                            the court and thereupon the said court adjourned from the house of 
                                Henry Dusenberry
                             to meet and held its session at said court house. And the
                            said court, now, to wit: at the hour of 11 o'clock on the said
                            20th day of May, 1833, convened in said court house to hold its session.
                            Present: The same judges and officers aforesaid.
                    
                
            There is apparently no record of any contract for the building of the
                    county's first courthouse. The public records from 1831, from the time
                    when the county seat was established, up to the time when the courthouse was
                    ready for occupancy, have been searched diligently and no such record has been
                    found. The late P. M. Henkel, who served as county auditor eight years, in a
                    paper read before the 
                        Elkhart County
                     Historical Society in 1905, states that the contract was awarded to
                    Jacob Studebaker, who modeled the building after the court house at
                            
                  Dayton, Ohio
               . The late Dr. M. M.
                    Latta, several years before his death, which occurred in 1899, made the same
                    statement to the writer of this paper; and he also stated that the 
                        Dayton
                     courthouse had been copied after the main building of 
                        Princeton
                     University as it was nearly a century and a quarter ago. In the
                    absence of any public record, the words of these men, both of whom were reputed
                    to be men of absolute truthfulness, are the best authority that can be cited
                    concerning this matter. It might be added that Mr. Henkel was a resident of 
                        Goshen
                     for fifty years, and Dr. Latta for nearly sixty years, both
                    locating there about 1840.
         
         
         
            Makers of 
                        Bartholomew County
                    
            
            GEORGE PENCE, 
                        Columbus
                    
            
            A paper read March 18, 1921, at the celebration of the centennial
                    of the organization of 
                        Bartholomew County
                    .
            We are told in the book of Genesis, "There were giants on the earth in
                    those days." The life of John Tipton, like that of 
                        General Bartholomew
                     and other history-makers of Indiana, is a chapter of itself. My
                    account must be brief.
            John Tipton was born on April 14, 1786, in 
                        Sevier County
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                    , then rejoicing in the name of "the State of 
                        Franklin
                    . " His father, Joshua Tipton, was shot to death by a
                    marauding band of Cherokees in 1793. His mother, Jeanette Shields Tipton, wa; of
                    the same line as the Shields and Blishes of Seymour.
            In the year 1807 the widowed mother, with two daughters and the son, removed
                    north to Indiana Territory and settled at Brinley's ferry on the 
                        Ohio
                    , in 
                        Harrison County
                    . Here John Tipton took upon himself the care of the family,
                    repairing guns, splitting rails, working as a farm hand, until he was able to
                    purchase fifty acres of 
                        Harrison County
                     land.
            
               
                        Tipton
                     developed a thrift that later gave him wealth and fame. With that
                    element he became the owner or part owner of the original county seat towns of
                            
                  Columbus, Huntington
                and 
                        Logansport
                    . He was Indian Agent at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and at 
                        Logansport
                    .
            In 1831 he was elected 
                        United States
                     Senator to fill the unexpired term caused by the death of James
                    Noble and in the next year, on the 19th ballot was elected for the full term.
                    His services in the Senate as chairman of Indian Affairs were of incalculable
                    value.
            
               
                        Tipton
                    , who was a member and ensign of Spier Spencer's
                    "Yellow Jackets," was engaged in the 
                        Harrison
                     campaign on  the 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . In the battle of November 7, 1811, in which his company took an
                    active part, every one of its commissioned officers was killed in the fight. 
                        Harrison
                     made 
                        Tipton
                     a Captain on the field of battle. He died at 
                        Logansport
                     on February 4, 1839. At the time of my story he was one of the
                    three members from 
                        Harrison County
                     in the lower house of the General Assembly of Indiana.
            Joseph Bartholomew was born in the State of 
                        New Jersey
                    , March 15, 1766. At the age of five years his widowed mother
                    removed to 
                        Laurel Hill
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Here he lived a life of frontier adventure, and at eighteen was
                    noted as an Indian fighter in the settlers' defense against the
                    marauding bands of Indians.
            
               
                        Bartholomew
                     married in 1788 and removed to 
                        Kentucky
                    , settling four miles from the village of 
                        Louisville
                    . In August, 1795, he was present at the 
                        Wayne
                     treaty at 
                        Greenville
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . He received but little schooling, but became self-taught. In 1798
                    he removed across the Ohio River into Indiana, before the
                    organization of the territory, and settled in 
                        Clark County
                    , where his wife died in 1809. His second marriage was in 1811 with
                    a Miss McNaught.
            In Indiana Territory he became a leader of men and became prominent, particularly
                    in militia affairs. He became the trusted and intimate friend of Governor
                    William Henry Harrison, and in the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign, as a lieutenant-colonel, was placed in command of part of
                    the militia, and was officer of the day on November 7, 1811, when the Indians
                    attacked 
                        Harrison
                    's forces at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . In this engagement he received a severe wound in the left wrist,
                    which maimed his arm for life.
            He was an ardent Whig and in the presidential campaign of 1840, he took an active
                    part traversing the states of Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                    , whither he had removed, on horseback in behalf of his former
                    commander. At the greatest of political meetings ever held in
                    Indiana—at the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Battle Ground in 1840—he presided, as he also did at a
                    similar one at 
                  Springfield,
                            Illinois
               .
            As one of the bondsmen he had to make good for a defaulting agent of the 
                        United States
                     Land Office at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , the surgeon who had dressed his wound at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    ,  and was thus compelled to sell
                    his 
                        Clark County
                     possessions. In 1831 he removed to the Sangamon country in 
                        Illinois
                    . The exposure of the 1840 campaign on horseback brought on the
                    illness which was the immediate cause of his death, which occurred on November
                    4, 1840, the day before the presidential election of that year. His grave is at 
                        Clarkstown
                    , 
                        Illinois
                    —a town laid out by him and named for his old-time
                    friend, Marston G. Clark. At the time of my story, as has been mentioned, he was
                    a member of the Senate from the County of 
                        Clark
                     and parts of 
                        Scott
                     and 
                        Floyd
                     counties. From him 
                        Bartholomew County
                     received her name.
            There has been but one change in her boundary as originally ordained. In 1836,
                    when the county of 
                        Brown
                     was erected, a strip of three miles was taken from the west side.
                    In 1845 there was a petition before the General Assembly for the formation of a
                    new county out of parts of the counties of 
                  Decatur, Jennings
               
                    and 
                        Bartholomew
                    , to be called Hart County, for Gideon Blackburn Hart, a prominent
                    citizen of this county, for whom the town of Hartsville was named by its
                    proprietors—but "for want of time," as the House Journal reads, the matter was postponed and the proposed
                    county never had any further action.
            Mention has been made of the writ issued for an election for February 13, 1821.
                    From the word we have there was a full vote, as this was the first opportunity
                    that the settler had of seeing and meeting all of his new neighbors. William
                    Graham, the 
                        Jackson County
                     member and Speaker of the House, was there looking after his fences
                    as a coming candidate for the Senate from the senatorial district of
                            
                  Jackson, Scott
                and 
                        Bartholomew
                     counties. Judge William S. Jones has told us that Graham told him,
                    on that day, that he did not know what the people would have done if the county
                    had not been organized; that Graham had no idea that there were so many people
                    in the county. He also averred that he had worked hard to secure the passage of
                    the act. The election was held to choose two associate judges, a clerk and
                    recorder (both offices held by the same person), and three county commissioners.
                    I found the certificate, in the Secretary of State's office, of Joseph
                    McKinney, Sheriff, under date of February 14, 1821, the day following the
                    election. It reads: 
                    
                        THE STATE
                            OF INDIANA, BARTHOLOMEW COUNTY.
                        I, Joseph McKinney, certify that agreeable to the returns of an election
                            holden in said county for the purpose of electing two Associate Judges
                            and one Clerk and Recorder, that John Pence and Ephraim Arnold are duly
                            elected Associate Judges and that Edward Ballenger was duly elected
                            Clerk and Recorder of said county.
                        Given under my hand and seal this 14th day of February, 1821.
                        [Seal] Joseph MCKINNEY, Sheriff.
                    
                
            This certificate had been sent to the Secretary of State that commissions might
                    be issued. The commissioners were not commissioned by the governor, but received
                    certificates of their election from the county sheriff. The commissioners
                    elected were William Ruddick, Jesse Ruddick and Solomon Stout; Daniel Ziegler
                    was elected coroner.
            In the archives of the county auditor's office is a thin, diminutive
                    home-made book, now aged and time stained, in which are contained the minutes of
                    the organization and of other early sessions of the board of commissioners of 
                        Bartholomew County
                    . The book is in the careful handwriting of the newly elected clerk
                    and recorder, Edward Ballenger. Many years ago I made a search of the first
                    commissioners' record of 
                        Jackson County
                    . I found the names of a number of the 
                        Bartholomew
                     pioneers who had lived in and performed some kind of public
                    function in that county before their emigration northward to 
                        Bartholomew County
                    . Edward Ballenger was. one of them. In 1817 he was a grand juror,
                    in 1818 was a guard of the county jail, and a road viewer in 1819.
            On the paper cover of this first record of the board of commissioners of 
                        Bartholomew County
                     are a number of scribblings in Ballenger's handwriting.
                    Possibly he was testing the nibs of a new goose quill pen. Amongst the
                    scribblings are the names of Giles Mitchell, Wm. Logan, James Delaney, Divinish
                    Taylor, and Captain James Bunch. Giles Mitchell, with Charles DePauw, built the
                    first court house. 
                        Mitchell
                     later removed to 
                        Morgan County
                    , where he built the first court house at 
                        Martinsville
                     and became the founder of the noted 
                        Mitchell
                     family of that town. Charles DePauw was the second representative
                    in the legislature from 
                        Bartholomew County
                    .  He was also a general of
                    militia. William Logan was one of the early appointed treasurers of the county,
                    and James Bunch had but recently been elected captain of one of the companies of 
                        Bartholomew
                     militia.
            There is also scribbled the following: "Edward Ballenger was born August
                    10, 1789; present date Aug. 11, 1822, thirty-three years." Another:
                    "Nancy Ballenger born March 17, 1794; present date Aug. 11, 1822,
                    twenty-eight years and five months." In the militia commissions I found
                    that Ballenger was commissioned major of the 36th regiment, the 
                        Bartholomew County
                     regiment, on August 31, three weeks after the scribbled date.
            And as a proof of the uncertainty of life, even in those days, I found the
                    returned commission of Joseph McKinney as sheriff bearing date of September 23,
                    1822. Within this short period, August 11 to September 23, Edward Ballenger had
                    died and McKinney had resigned the office of sheriff to become a candidate for
                    clerk and recorder in place of Ballenger. McKinney was elected and Gideon
                    Blackburn Hart, a young collegiate, 23 years of age, from 
                        Marysville
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                    , was appointed sheriff to fill the vacancy caused by the
                    resignation of Joseph McKinney. Later Hart, although a democrat, was elected
                    school commissioner, which office he held for nineteen years.
            Joseph McKinney was elected clerk and recorder vice Edward
                    Ballenger, and I found the unique document in the secretary of state's
                    office certifying his own election to that office, under date of October 22,
                    1822. There were four McKinney brothers—Joseph, John, Lambkin and
                    Alfred. Joseph was clerk and recorder for fourteen years, and later was strong
                    enough to have his brother-in-law, Isaac Smith Boardman, elected as clerk.
                    Boardman captained the first company raised here for the Mexican war. McKinney
                    removed to 
                        Greensburg
                     and later to the far west, in 
                        Oregon
                    , where he was drowned in a swollen stream.
            Section 3 of the 
                        Bartholomew County
                     enabling act named the commissioners to select and fix the county
                    seat of the new county. These were Ebenezer E. Morgan, of 
                        Crawford
                    ; James Hamilton, of 
                        Jackson
                    ; William P. Thomasson, of 
                        Harrison
                    ;  Robert Robertson, of 
                        Clark
                    , and John E. Clark, of 
                        Washington County
                    . One of these gentlemen, fifty-three years later, was here as a
                    guest of the county upon the dedication of the courthouse in 1874. My
                    recollection is that it was Mr. Thomasson, of 
                        Harrison
                    . The house of John Parker, up in the Hawpatch, was named as the
                    place where they were to meet on the second Monday in
                    February—"and then to proceed immediately to discharge the
                    duties according to law."
            There is an old Latin saying: De mortuis nil nisi
                    bonum—which means, "Of the dead nothing except
                    good,"—or translated freely, "Never speak ill of
                    the dead." But let an old tradition of the 
                        Bartholomew
                     courthouse be mentioned. It is this: When the present courthouse
                    was completed in 1873, and the old courthouse was to be dismantled, the board of
                    commissioners rather than provide shelving for the accumulated documents and old
                    papers in the auditor's office and other county offices, ordered a
                    carload of them to be sold as junk. I have spent many hours in search of the
                    record of the order of the sale. I did not find it—nor did I find any
                    record of any proceeds of such sale.
            The diminutive record book, which I have mentioned, shows that the board of
                    commissioners met at the house of Luke Bonesteel on Thursday, the 15th of
                    February, 1821. Present were William Ruddick, Jesse Ruddick and Solomon Stout,
                    who each presented the sheriffs certificate of his election. Edward Ballenger
                    was appointed clerk of the board. The next in order was the acceptance of the
                    report of the commissioners to select a county seat, which report was ordered to
                    be recorded. The record fails to show the report—not even a
                    "here insert."
            Local historians have written up these early meetings so often that I shall not
                    now mention them again. Enough to relate that allowances were made to the county
                    seat commissioners and the foreign sheriff. Elections were ordered in the three
                    election districts for justices of the peace, and constables and school land
                    superintendents were appointed.
            Eleven days later, on February 26, at the second meeting, John Lindsay was
                    appointed agent for the town of Tiptona. This is the first mention of the name
                    of the new county seat,  but tradition hath
                    it that it was suggested by the county seat commissioners in honor of John
                    Tipton. John Lindsay was our first member of the legislature.
            The record shows that Luke Bonesteel was appointed county treasurer (county
                    treasurers were not made elective until the year 1843), and Joseph Pownall was
                    selected to list all taxable property within the county and make return of same
                    on the second Monday in May. Pownall was also selected as superintendent of the
                    school section 16 in Township 9, Range 5. Besides these duties, we find in the
                    office of the Circuit Court that he solemnized four marriages in 1821. The
                    certificates are signed "P. G."—preacher of the
                    Gospel—but we have not learned under what denomination he was
                    licensed to preach. 
                        Bartholomew County
                     had no "marrying squire" in 1821, and the record
                    shows that there were no justices of the peace qualified until after June 13,
                    1821.
            I found a letter dated June 13, 1821, from Edward Bal-lenger asking the secretary
                    of state to send commissions for Ebenezer Ward, William Carter, James Van Zant,
                    Joseph Robertson, Benjamin Crow and John S. McEwen, who had been elected
                    justices on March 31; the secretary of state had been notified, but commissions
                    had not been received, and as Ballenger writes, "We are standing very
                    much in need of a justice of the peace." The clerk's marriage
                    returns show but twenty-one marriages solemnized during the year 1821, but in
                    August Squires Carter and McEwen show up with one apiece.
            Ballenger's letter to the secretary of state on June 13 was sent at the
                    hands of a Mr. Butler. There were no 
                        United States
                     mail facilities. I have seen two 
                        Columbus
                     written letters to the secretary. One of them was post-marked
                    Browns-town and the second 
                        Salem
                    . Doctor Hiram Smith, a Ken-tuckian, was the first physician to
                    practice medicine in 
                        Columbus
                     and became the first postmaster. He was the first Master of St.
                    John's Lodge No. 20, F. and A. M., which was chartered in 1822.
            At the session of February 26, John Lindsay was ordered to have the town of
                    Tiptona surveyed and laid off into lots 60 by 120 feet. There were to be four
                    main streets and 12-foot  alleys. May 1 was
                    fixed for the lot sale. The center of the public square was to be fixed at the
                    half mile stake of fractional sections 24 and 25.
            John Lindsay was given the ferry right across Driftwood and ferry rates fixed by
                    the board, according to law made and provided. From a letter I recently read in
                    the 
                        Tipton
                     collection at the State Library, it would appear that the ferry was
                    owned by 
                        Tipton
                    . John Lindsay was a relative of 
                        Tipton
                     by marriage and had built a house on the break of the slope on the
                    west end of Walnut street—now Fourth street—just west of
                    the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     main line. The letter was from 
                        Calvin Fletcher
                    , 
                        Tipton
                    's retained attorney, at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The board then adjourned until the next day at 9 o'clock.
            March 20, 1821. The commissioners' record starts off like a prohibition
                    meeting, or a double-barreled pop-gun: 
                        Ordered that the former order made herein for the laying off of Tiptona
                            be rescinded.
                        Ordered that the name of the town of Tiptona be altered and hereafter
                            known by the name of 
                                Columbus
                            .
                    
                
            The two drastic orders, unquestionably were made for cause. What the cause was I
                    cannot tell you—there is no record. Whether the new name was in honor
                    of the great navigator, or for the village of that name over in the state of
                            
                  Ohio, I
                do not know. Anyway John Tipton
                    had been honored for 22 days—from the 26th of February to March 20.
            From my boy days I have ever held the idea that 
                        Tipton
                     had made a donation of land to the county for county seat purposes,
                    and for this donation the town was named in his honor. I knew that on the
                    earliest map and in several early deeds, the north line of the original town was
                    known as the "Donation line"—the south line of the
                    St. Denis Hotel and north line of the Wolf property on 
                        Washington
                     Street. In this way I have always thought that he was treated
                    unkindly, if not unfairly, in altering the name to 
                        Columbus
                    . And even when 60 years later the name of 
                        Tipton
                     Street was changed to a numbered street, Third Street, I felt it
                    was unfair. And 
                        Tipton
                     Knoll! Who ever heard of the beautiful elevation at the west end of
                    the Third Street cul de sac being called 
                        Tipton
                     Knoll? Yet all these names are of record.
            
            My later investigation, however, resulted in failure to find any donation made by
                    him to the county—or the one that was understood to be made to the
                    Methodist Church "for the purpose of promoting religious worship and in
                    consideration of one dollar," according to the gift he was supposed to
                    make of the lot now occupied by 
                        Marshall
                    , Baker, Meyer and Rost for purpose of erecting a Methodist meeting
                    house. This I found in a letter from the late William Herod to 
                        Tipton
                     asking him for the agreed deed. 
                        Tipton
                     replied that "Such calls had been so frequent that he felt
                    that he should not then be required to make the deed, but would think about
                    it—besides he had other plans for a disposition of the
                    premises." The County Recorder's office shows that the good
                    Methodists did receive a deed from 
                        Tipton
                     for a half interest, consideration $25.00. Some years
                    after, they obtained a deed for the other moiety from Joseph McKinney, for
                    $100.
            The County Recorder's office also discloses a deed from John Tipton for
                    thirty acres of land commencing at the half-mile stake of fractional sections 24
                    and 25 then west 50 poles to the knoll—then north 48 poles, then east
                    far enough to make thirty acres. The deed was made at 
                        Columbus
                    , April 19, 1822, signed by John Tipton, the grantee being John
                    Far-quar, county agent; witnesses, Jonathan Jennings, who was governor at this
                    date, and Luke Bonesteel, acknowledged before Ebenezer Ward, J. P.
                    Consideration, $2,000. The thirty acres had cost 
                        Tipton
                     but $37.50, a few months before. The tract conveyed is
                    situated north of the middle of the Court House square, north to the St. Denis
                    Hotel. Luke Bonesteel about the same time deeds thirty acres adjoining on the
                    south, consideration $2,000. This extends below "Old Smoky
                    Row" and both tracts extend east to the Big Four Railroad yards.
            The late Doctor John C. Beck of 
                        Cincinnati
                    —he was an 1825 native of 
                        Columbus
                    —has related to me the story of the change of name. That 
                        Tipton
                     being an intense Democrat and the political influence of the county
                    being Whiggish, that there was thus a partisan feeling in the matter. [This is a
                    sample of English that was used here in 1828.). That it was remarked by his foes
                    that "
                        Tipton
                     is getting along a little too damned fast." He also
                    mentioned that 
                        Tipton
                     in his trips  was accompanied by
                    a young negro body servant who was called Bill Tipton. The Whigs, in ridicule,
                    kept insisting to 
                        Tipton
                    's Democratic friends that the county seat had been named
                    for Bill Tipton and not for their friend John. Doctor Beck also related that it
                    was currently reported that it was 
                        Tipton
                    's intention to remove to the new county seat.
            At this meeting the town of 
                        Columbus
                     was ordered to be surveyed and subdivided into lots 75 by 150 feet,
                    with eight lots to the block, and their sale to be made on June 15. In the new
                    survey the center of the public square got shifted to the west 150 feet; of this
                    there is no mention in the record.
            Maybe if we had some of that carload of junked documents we might learn how the
                    lots were to be sold in June, 1821, when we did not have a deed for the lands
                    until April 19, 1822, nearly a year later. But De mortuis nil nisi
                        bonum.
            Joseph Pownall was able to report on May 14, showing:
            
               
                  355
                  Male inhabitants with 50-cent poll
                  $177.50
               
               
                  440
                  Horses at 37 1/2
                  165.00
               
               
                  4
                  Stallions
                  11.00
               
               
                  45
                  Work oxen at 25
                  11.25
               
               
                  33
                  Silver watches at 25
                  8.25
               
               
                  1
                  Gold watch
                  50
               
               
                  3
                  Four-wheeled carriages at $1.25
                  3.75
               
               
                   
                  Lindsey's ferry
                  
                            5.00
                        
               
               
                   
                  Total taxes for the year
                  $382.25
               
            
            It must be remembered that under the compact made with the 
                        United States
                     congress at the 
                        Corydon
                     convention all 
                        United States
                     lands sold within the state should not be taxed until five years
                    after date of sale.
            The total tax of $382.25 recalls the prophet, Zachariah, who said,
                    "For who hath despised the day of small things." The taxes on
                    the 
                        Bartholomew County
                     duplicates for 1921 are $884,550.24.
            The Board of Commissioners then took up the important matter of establishing and
                    the laying out of public roads. The legislature of 1820 had provided for a
                    number of permanent roads. Later, these main arteries were termed state roads.
                    One of the 1820 permanent roads was a road 70 feet wide from 
                        Madison
                    , by way of Vernon, to the proposed  permanent seat of government of the state. This was
                    prior to the selection of the site at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The survey of this road had been made and we know from the records
                    that the line ran through Flatrock and German townships, striking section 3 in
                    township 10, range 5, near Edinburg. It was opened only in 
                        Jefferson County
                    .
            At this May session a number of petitions for roads were filed. Viewers were
                    appointed and in course of law the roads were established. Two of these
                    intersected the road from 
                        Madison
                     to the state capital. The first from the northwest corner of the
                    public square, north on 
                        Jackson
                     Street, then the main street of 
                        Columbus
                    , became in time the Edinburg Road. A second road, north on 
                        Washington
                     Street, is now known as the Hawpatch Road. Another road south on
                    the 
                        Bartholomew
                     trail,'east of Driftwood, is the Azalia Road. Another,
                    west of Driftwood, is now called the 
                        Rockford
                     Road; and still another, east from 
                        Columbus
                     across Hawcreek, near the present bridge, by way of Weber
                    Smith's old homestead and the Beam farm, east to the 
                        Decatur County
                     line, was known as the 
                        Brookville
                     Road.
            In 1823 there were fourteen state roads established from different parts of the
                    state to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , or, as Joseph Mc-Kinney wrote it in one place, "Indiana
                    Police" and in another, "Indiana Polis." As
                    McKinney's records show that he "spelled by ear," we
                    can judge how the name of the state capital was pronounced in its infant days.
            Two of these roads passed through 
                        Bartholomew County
                    ; the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     State road by way of Vernon and 
                        Columbus
                    , and the Mauk's Ferry State road from the Ohio
                        River by way of 
                        Corydon
                    , 
                        Salem
                     and Erownstown to 
                        Indianapolis
                    . John Tipton was surveyor of the latter and missed the town that
                    was once named for him two miles to the west, on the old Indian trail from the
                    lower rapids at 
                        Rockford
                     to the upper rapids at 
                        Lowell
                    . I have wondered whether John would not have shifted the line so as
                    to strike Tiptona, the county seat, if it had retained its earlier name.
            The survey of the 
                        Madison
                     State road, as depicted on the map in the state land office, shows
                    and describes the line as striking the southeast corner of the court house
                    square, thence  northwest through it to 
                        Jackson
                     Street, thence to the north line of the town, thence veering east
                    to the half-mile line now on North 
                        Washington
                     Street, and crossing Flatrock at Highfill ford. The north end of 
                        Columbus
                     was then at the south line of Hege and Company's property
                    on 
                        Jackson
                     Street.
            The county, east of Driftwood, was filling fast in the early twenties and the
                    records of the land offices of 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and 
                        Brookville
                     show entries galore. Sandcreek township, particularly, was being
                    settled rapidly. The Newsoms, five of them, Daniel, Willis, Joel, David and
                    John, all of them 
                        North Carolina
                     Quakers, moved over in 
                        Bartholomew
                     from 
                        Orange
                     and 
                        Washington
                     counties.
            I recall that there were fifty-three Newsoms on the Sand-creek tax duplicate in
                    1896 when I was county auditor. With them came the Coxes, the Parkers, the Halls
                    and others, all of them Quakers, and good at everything on
                    earth—except voting the Democratic ticket.
            The Friends in Sandcreek organized their church in 1824, the same year that the
                    Presbyterians organized in 
                        Columbus
                    , but a year after the good Methodists purchased the lot on the
                    southeast corner of 
                        Washington
                     and Fifth Street, then called 
                        Harrison
                     Street, in 1823. The Baptists had also organized in the Boaz
                    settlement, six miles north of town on Flatrock. One of their preachers, Mignon
                    Boaz, attended school under my great grandfather, after he was a grown man, over
                    on Sand Hill. He had but one textbook, his Holy Bible.
            Joseph Fawsett, who entered land in 
                        German
                     Township in 1821, was a Baptist preacher. He came here from 
                        Jefferson County
                    . He was, possibly, the earliest school teacher here of whom I have
                    an account. Later, he became connected with the followers of that holy man,
                    Alexander Campbell, and became a preacher, and founded, as I understand, the
                    Christian Church at 
                        New Hope
                    . When I was a youngster I recall seeing Alexander Campbell, who was
                    visiting the churches on a farewell tour.
            A few years later—late in the twenties—there was an
                    immigration and settlement of a he lot of people from 
                        North Carolina
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , who organized the Moravian Church at Hope—which town
                    was then called 
                        Goshen
                    . The  Reverend Martin Hauser was
                    their first minister and leader. 
                        Truly
                    , 
                        Bartholomew
                     has ever been under the good influences of God and morality.
            I regret that I do not have time to make mention of the improvements of the new
                    county, its stray pen, its courthouse, and the buckeye jail which had to have
                    the sprouts pruned for two years after it was built, the sale of lots and some
                    of the owners, the flat boating, the musters of the militia, the early
                    merchants, taverns and the first circuit court, et al. Nor can
                    I tell of the families of Glantons, the McEwens, the Rud-dicks, the Irwins
                    (Benjamin Irwin, a Whig, was sent to the legislature for four terms), the
                    Hubbards, the Washburns, three families of Jones, two of Carters, two of
                    Thompsons, the Hagers, the Records, the Harts, the Sloans, and scores of others
                    who were all prominent in making 
                        Bartholomew County
                     history. But there is to be another centennial in the year 2020.
            All of this gives me the same sort of home pride that the apostle had, as
                    recorded in Acts 21, verse 39: "But Paul said I am a man which am a Jew
                    of Tarsus, a city in 
                        Cilicia
                    , a citizen of no mean city." But here I shall borrow from
                    Mark Twain in his last paragraph of Tom Sawyer, a book I read
                    some 47 years ago, commencing on Saturday evening after supper and finishing it
                    at half past three on Sunday morning. It reads thus: 
                        So endeth the chronicle. It being strictly a history of a boy, it must
                            stop here; the story could not go much further without becoming the
                            history of a man. When one writes a novel about grown people, he knows
                            exactly where to stop—that is a marriage, but when he writes
                            of juveniles, he must stop when he best can.
                    
                
         
         
         
            Martin Lex Bundy
            CLARENCE H. SMITH, 
                        New Castle
                    
            
            
               
                        Curator Henry County
                     Historical Society
            For the greater part of the first hundred years of the history of the state of
                    Indiana, there lived within her domain one who played no small part in the
                    welfare of that commonwealth in the person of Martin Lex Bundy, an outstanding
                    figure in the judicial, industrial, and social life of the community where he
                    dwelt, and in that of the state at large.
            Although not a native of Indiana, having been born in 
                        Randolph County
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    , in November, 1817, he was brought while but a babe in arms, the
                    following 
                        Spring
                    , to this new state, where he spent the remaining span of his life.
                    Like that of the greater portion of Indiana pioneers who had emigrated from 
                        North Carolina
                    , his was a 
                        Quaker
                     heritage. But in the War for Independence his grandfather,
                    Christopher Bundy, had departed from the teaching of his faith, and in 1779 had
                    enlisted as a private in 
                        Guilford County
                    . In 1833, while resident at 
                        Salisbury
                    , 
                        Wayne County
                    , Indiana, this patriot was pensioned by the 
                        United States
                     Government for his services in that struggle.
            It fell to the lot of this patriot to care for the mother and this child who had
                    been deprived of a father's care while but an infant. Upon emigration
                    to Indiana Christopher Bundy had located in the thriving little village of 
                        Salisbury
                    , which until two years previous had been the county seat of the
                    rapidly growing county of 
                        Wayne
                    . After the New Purchase had been acquired, however, and settlers
                    had begun "squatting" upon the land purchased, Christopher
                    Bundy removed in 1820 to land which he entered as soon as the market was open
                    the following year. This land was located near the site of what later became 
                        New Castle
                    , the seat of justice of the newly  created county of 
                        Henry
                    . Later he returned to his earlier purchase at 
                        Salisbury
                    , where he died in 1835, but practically all the years of his
                    grandson's long life were spent at 
                        New Castle
                    .
            Interesting reminiscences of his boyhood days in this new country, fast being
                    changed by the energy of the pioneers, were often recounted in his later years
                    by Judge Bundy. One event that left an undying impression upon his mind was his
                    attendance, when but a boy of six years, upon the burial with military honors of
                    Hugh Healey, who in the Revolutionary War had done service in the 
                        New Jersey
                     troops from 1776 to 1783. A church now occupies the site in 
                        New Castle
                     of the graveyard wherein this burial took place, and her officials
                    have persistently refused to allow the Daughters of the American Revolution and
                    the 
                        Henry County
                     Historical Society or any other organization to place any marker on
                    its ground in memory of this patriot, giving as their reason that "it
                    might some day hurt the sale of their ground to know there had ever been a
                    graveyard there."
            Opportunities for education were naturally very meager in Judge Bundy's
                    youth, but he had the inherent longing found among most Quakers to acquire
                    knowledge and to take advantage of every opportunity for learning that might
                    come to him. The old log school house, typical of that time, as well as the
                    light of the huge log fire and of the grease lamps and of candles were features
                    in the early life of Judge Bundy, as they were of most citizens of this frontier
                    country who played any important part in her history.
            When he had reached the age of eighteen, he had been employed by William Silver,
                    the leading merchant of 
                        New Castle
                    , who had a government contract for carrying the mails, to carry the
                    mail on horseback from 
                        Centerville
                    , the county seat of 
                        Wayne County
                    , through 
                        Henry
                     and 
                        Madison
                     counties to 
                        Noblesville
                     in 
                        Hamilton County
                    . It was an early form of Rural Delivery, for most of the post
                    offices visited were little more than country stores or taverns. Settlers along
                    his route made use of his services as their "express agent"
                    and "delivery boy." The round trip consumed five days out of
                    each week, for which he received five dollars a month in pay. Many  interesting accounts of this enterprise came from
                    the pen of the Judge in later days.
            Although in private employ, this mail route might be considered as Mr.
                    Bundy's entrance to official life. Having continued the use of what
                    opportunities were offered for public schooling, he added a course of private
                    study under the direction of Judge John Davis of 
                        Madison County
                     and later, after service as deputy in the office of the recorder of
                    the county, he was enabled to take a year's course of study at 
                        Miami
                     University, 
                        Oxford
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . This ended his scholastic education. When again serving as deputy
                    to the county recorder, he took up the study of law in the office of Jehu T.
                    Elliott, who later served six years with distinction as Judge of the Supreme
                    Court of Indiana. While thus employed he married Miss Amanda Elliott, a sister
                    of the Judge, under whom he was reading law, and whose father, Abraham Elliott,
                    had been the first lawyer to locate in 
                        New Castle
                    .
            After his admission to the bar in 1842 he continued to be prominently identified
                    with the official and judicial life of the county, serving as its treasurer from
                    1844 to 1847, as its representative to the state legislature in 1848 to 1849, as
                    judge of the Court of Common Pleas from 1852 to 1860.
            As an adherent to the Whig party he was an admirer of 
                        Henry
                        Clay
                     and a loyal supporter of his candidacy for the presidential
                    nomination in the 
                        Philadelphia
                     convention of 1848, to which he was a delegate, but after the
                    choice of that convention fell upon General Taylor, he exerted his influence in
                    behalf of his election.
            Upon the formation of the Republican party, Mr. Bundy was one of the Indiana
                    delegates to the 
                        Philadelphia
                     convention in 1856, which nominated General John C. Fremont, of
                    whom he was a devoted admirer, for the presidency. At the next Presidential
                    convention of that party, which was the memorable 
                        Chicago
                     convention of 1860, which nominated 
                        Abraham Lincoln
                    , Judge Bundy was an alternate. Again in 1872, when 
                        General Grant
                     was renominated he was one of the Republican delegates.
            Having been chosen again to represent his county in the state legislature in
                    1861, Judge Bundy made the speech presenting 
                    the name of Governor Henry S. Lane as the choice for 
                        United States
                     Senator. The selection of Governor Lane for Senator necessitated
                    the elevation to the governor's office of Oliver P. Morton, the
                    lieutenant-governor, who had been a friend of Mr. Bundy's since their
                    early days in 
                        Centerville
                     and 
                        New Castle
                    .
            After the outbreak of the Rebellion and Governor Morton's offer of
                    troops to 
                        Lincoln
                     and his call for army organization, he found one of his most
                    trusted and loyal assistants in Judge Bundy. In August, 1861, President Lincoln
                    appointed him Paymaster in the 
                        United States
                     Army, being stationed first at 
                        St. Louis
                    , later at 
                        Louisville
                     and other points in the middle west. Twenty-five million dollars
                    were paid out by him for the government during that time. Upon his discharge in
                    1866 he received the commission of lieutenant-colonel by brevet.
            In 1864 Judge Bundy had organized the First National Bank in 
                        New Castle
                     and was actively identified with the banking interests in that town
                    until 1878. Six years of that time he held the office of National Bank Examiner
                    for the State of Indiana; five years later he filled that position for 
                        Alabama
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    .
            Having at heart all the interests that looked to the betterment of the community
                    where he lived, he was a leader in the temperance work, in the educational and
                    cultural projects of the town and in its industrial life, having been one of the
                    original stockholders in the 
                        New Castle
                     and 
                        Richmond
                     Railroad, now the 
                        Cincinnati
                     to 
                        Chicago
                     branch of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     system.
            Judge Bundy and wife spent over sixty-three years of happy married life together
                    until separated by her death in 1903. Ten children were born to them, eight of
                    whom grew to maturity. One son, Eugene Halleck Bundy, served some years as judge
                    of the Circuit Court of 
                        Henry County
                    , also as a member of the state senate from 1880 to 1883 and was a
                    candidate on the Republican ticket for lieutenant-governor in 1884, a campaign
                    in which the Democratic party carried off all the honors. Of 
                        Judge Martin Bundy
                    's numerous descendants there are today (1926) three sons
                    living and several grandchildren and great grandchildren, the best known of  whom perhaps is his son, Major General Omar
                    Bundy, distinguished officer in the late World War. A grandson, 
                        Walter Scott
                     Chambers, is well-known in Indiana as an editor and as a leader in
                    the Democratic party.
            
               
                        Judge Martin Bundy
                     was one of the organizers of the 
                        Henry County
                     Historical Society in 1887, and upon his death in 1910 a meeting
                    was held in his honor at which a memorial to him was read by his son, Judge
                    Eugene H. Bundy, in which was said, in part: 
                        He was not a mere looker-on but a man of vigorous and intelligent action.
                            His community approved of and honored him and he proved worthy. His
                            Country trusted him and he was faithful to every trust. He came to
                            Indiana an infant in the arms of a soldier of the Revolutionary War: may
                            we not conclude that he inherited from this rugged soldier-Quaker some
                            of the patriotic spirit that after 
                                Lexington
                             and 
                                Concord
                             and Bunker Hill found its expression
                            in the desire and effort to build up and make great and prosperous this
                            young Western Empire.
                        He was a reader of books and a student of history and his mind was a
                            store-house of useful information and his memory was the marvel of every
                            one who knew him, an instance of which was shown less than a year ago
                            when he addressed this Society on the subject of the
                            "Comparative Civilization of the 16th and 19th
                            Centuries."
                        From 1817 to 1910—that was the span of his life. He lived a
                            long time while human slavery existed in the 
                                United States
                            , but he lived to see every bondsman free. For nearly a
                            hundred years he lived and strove. During that long period many of the
                            most notable achievements of mankind marked the progress of the century.
                            It was his privilege to witness the development of the great
                            Commonwealth of Indiana as the formless wilderness yielded to the
                            fashioning hand of the pioneer. He saw her growth and prosperity aided
                            by the advent of the railroad, the telegraph, the telephone, the trolley
                            car. All the modern marvels of electricity, with their revolutionary
                            effect upon daily life, came under his observation. Wonderful inventions
                            and discoveries crowded upon each other during his ninety-two years,
                            creating interesting contrasts as new methods succeeded old ones. This
                            was a life enriched by a panoramic vision of the world-wide advancement
                            signalizing the period in which he lived. His life was well rounded
                            out—it was complete; his work was done, and peacefully and
                            calmly he was gathered to his fathers. His life is a heritage to his
                            family and his friends worthy of all emulation by the generations to
                            come.
                    
                
         
         
         
            Documents
            Contributed by CLARENCE H. SMITH
            
            I
            LETTERS OF MARTIN L. BUNDY, 1848–49
            An editorial, which appeared in the Indiana Courier, published
                    at 
                        New Castle
                    , later becoming the 
                  
                            New Castle
                         Courier, under which name it is still published, bears the
                    date May 20, 1848, and reads: 
                        MARTIN L. BUNDY, Esq.
                        This gentleman, who is a delegate from this district, will start for 
                                Philadelphia
                             next week, to attend the Whig National Convention of the
                            7th of June; and also the great Whig Ratification Convention which is to
                            assemble in that city on the 8th of the same month. We understand from
                            Mr. Bundy that he goes in the convention for a true Whig, a reliable
                            Whig; but at the same time an available man; one who not only is true to
                            the great Whig policy, but on whom the party can confidently rely for
                            success, and whether he shall vote OUR first choice or not, we think he
                            will faithfully represent the wishes of the district in that convention.
                            Our readers will perhaps hear from Mr. Bundy occasionally through the
                            columns of the Courier during his absence.
                    
                
            From the Indiana Courier of June 24, 1848: 
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              NEW YORK,
                           
                                    June 10th, 1848.
                        DEAR COURIER:
                        I arrived in the "Island City" last evening
                                    from 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     which place I left after the organization of the
                                    great "Ratification Convention", in that city
                                    yesterday evening, to approve the nomination of Gen. Zachary
                                    Taylor, for President of the 
                                        United States
                                    , and Millard Fil-more, of the city of Buffalo, in
                                    the state of 
                                        New York
                                    , for Vice President. That was a tremendous meeting,
                                    depend upon it, and responded with unexampled enthusiasm to the
                                    nominations made the morning of the same day, of those two
                                    distinguished individuals for the two highest offices in the
                                    gift of the people of this great confederacy. And after  the demonstrations in their
                                    favor, which I have witnessed there and elsewhere, I cannot for
                                    a moment doubt their success.
                        It may not, however, be inappropriate for me to remark, that in
                                    accordance with what I believed to be the wishes of a majority
                                    of the Whigs of the district, which I had the honor in part to
                                    represent in that convention, with which I fully coincided
                                    myself, I opposed the nomination of the distinguished individual
                                    who was successful and gave my feeble influence and support
                                    first to Judge McLean and finding him wholly out of the
                                    question, then to 
                                        General Scott
                                    , for whom Indiana gave nine of her twelve votes, on
                                    the first ballot and finding him equally hopeless I then gave my
                                    support to the great patriot and statesman, 
                                        Henry
                                        Clay
                                     of 
                                        Kentucky
                                    , who seemed in truth the only rival candidate who
                                    had any prospect of success from the commencement, backed as he
                                    was by the united vote of the great State of 
                                        New York
                                    . I foresaw, however, that the nomination of General
                                    Taylor was inevitable, as soon as the Convention met, because
                                    all efforts to concentrate the apparent opposition vote, as
                                    shown on the first ballot, were fruitless, and utterly
                                    unavailing, and each faction fought under the banner of his own
                                    peculiar leader to the last, until captured by the successful
                                    "Hero of Buena Vista."
                        Well, it will be said that this is a Southern triumph and that
                                    the slaveholders made this nomination, but in all candor let me
                                    say, much as I regret the result, this is an error, for 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                    , where the "Wilmot Proviso"
                                    originated, the great and free state of 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                    , aided by 
                                        New England
                                    , where the principles of freedom first originated
                                    in the country (as any one will see who will take the trouble to
                                    look at the Journal of the Convention) made the nomination for
                                    the country; and I will say, whilst upon the subject, that the
                                    principles contained in General Taylor's letter to
                                    Allison, doubtless actuated them to give him the nomination, and
                                    whatever may be said of him in other respects, this letter
                                    contains sentiments, which should be dear to every true Whig in
                                    the 
                                        Union
                                    , and to which every Whig should give a hearty
                                    support either in the person of Gen. Taylor or some one equally
                                    well calculated to carry them into successful operation.
                        The political fermentation in this city is great at present. The
                                    Barnburners are holding large and enthusiastic meetings in which
                                    they freely denounce Gen. Cass; and John Van Buren, the great
                                    Ajax of the party, has announced his determination to
                                    "stump it" throughout the State for a similar
                                    purpose. I also saw large hand-bills today posted in the Park
                                    calling a general meeting of all parties and persons opposed to
                                    the nominations made at 
                                        Baltimore
                                     and 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     both. The object is not stated, though I suppose it
                                    will be disclosed in due time.
                        I have as yet visited but a few of the places of attraction in
                                    this city. I have, however, this morning seen those far-famed
                                    wonders, the "five points," Trinity Church,
                                    Grace Church, and the City Hall and Park, which I lack space to
                                    describe, and I fear my increasing desire to  return home will diminish my stay
                                    here to a less period of time than I could desire.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    M. L. B.
                                
                     
                  
               
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              INDIANAPOLIS,
                           
                                    Wednesday, Nov. 6th, 1848.
                        DEAR COURIER:
                        Both branches of the Legislature convened at the Capitol on
                                    Monday, and proceeded to the election of their officers, for the
                                    Session. In the House, G. W. Carr, of 
                                        Lawrence County
                                    , was on the first ballot elected Speaker; John W.
                                    Dodd, of 
                                        Grant County
                                    , Principal Clerk; Isaac Smith, of 
                                        Marion County
                                    , Assistant Clerk; and S. J. Johnson, of 
                                        Dearborn County
                                    , Door Keeper. In the Senate, Charles H. Test was
                                    elected Secretary, and Mr. Warner, Door Keeper.
                        Mr. J. B. Julian, of 
                                        Wayne County
                                    , offered in the House a joint resolution
                                    instructing our Senators and Representatives in Congress to use
                                    all proper means to procure the passage of the ordinance of
                                    1787, commonly called the "Wilmot Proviso",
                                    which was read the first time, and a motion was also made by Mr.
                                    Julian to suspend the rules and read it a second time, which did
                                    not prevail. The majority not having had time as yet to concoct
                                    their amendments, by which their object will be to destroy its
                                    effect, and make it more compatible with Gen. Cass's
                                    notion to which they have so lately been committed, concerning
                                    the "diffusion" of slavery over our newly
                                    acquired territories. But much as they despise the measure when
                                    in the House, where their majority is twenty, being sixty
                                    democrats to forty Whigs, they dare not look the measure
                                    directly in the face, and vote against it, hence they will
                                    attempt to extract its teeth, and render it more consonant to
                                    their preconceived opinions. It has also been introduced in the
                                    Senate, and will doubtless pass that body without much
                                    difficulty. Does this not afford some evidence that the Whigs
                                    were sincere in the professions they made upon this subject
                                    previous to the late Presidential election?
                        A resolution has been offered to go into the election of 
                                        United States
                                     Senator on Monday; to this an amendment was
                                    offered, providing that no person should be eligible to that
                                    station who was not favorable to the Ordinance of 1787. Mr.
                                    Harlan, of 
                                        Grant County
                                    , moved further to amend, by declaring likewise,
                                    that no person should be elected to that office who should not
                                    first have been nominated by a regular "democratic
                                    Caucus", when the resolution and pending amendments
                                    were laid on the table.
                        Such a multitude of office seekers, as are here this session, has
                                    never before been seen, even by the "oldest
                                    inhabitant", and it is hoped for the credit of the
                                    state, may never be witnessed again. Truly the dislike for
                                    honest industry must be rapidly on the increase in this State,
                                    when so many "nice young men" can be induced
                                    to quit their friends and abandon their occupation merely for
                                    the purpose of getting an occupation here, by which they are
                                    able to get a little money without labor, for were they required
                                    to labor as they should be, I am persuaded these  stations would not be so much
                                    coveted. There are several important offices to be filled by the
                                    Legislature this winter and among them may be enumerated a U. S.
                                    Senator, in the place of Mr. Hannigan; Secretary of State;
                                    President of the State Bank; and Warden of the State Prison, all
                                    of which will be filled during the next week of the Session.
                        Jas. W. Borden was on yesterday elected President Judge of the
                                    12th Judicial Circuit, without opposition doubtless as a reward
                                    for his ultra partisan course; the Whigs generally voting for J.
                                    B. Hone, who was not a candidate. For the Senate, the candidates
                                    as far as I have been able to learn, are Hannegan, the present
                                    incumbent; Gov. Whit-comb; E. M. Chamberlain and John Law; and
                                    among them, I fancy it will be difficult for Whigs and Free Soil
                                    men, who are really so, to make a choice. Law undoubtedly
                                    approximates nearest to correct principles, but if the Whigs
                                    should combine with his friends and elect him, it is probable
                                    that in his efforts to restore himself to a good standing with
                                    his party, which he would lose to some extent, he would prove
                                    treacherous to the men who elect him. It is impossible to
                                    predict who will be elected, and I forbear hazzarding an
                                    opinion. Today at 2 o'clock, we are to have the
                                    Governor's Message, after which the business of
                                    legislation will commence in earnest, when you may hear from me
                                    again.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    M. L. B.
                                
                     
                  
               
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              INDIANAPOLIS,
                           
                                    Dec. 12th, 1848.
                        DEAR COURIER:
                        The joint resolution, instructing our Senators in Congress to
                                    vote in favor of the Ordinance of 1787, in the organization of
                                    Territorial Governments out of the recently acquired Mexican
                                    Territory, to which I alluded briefly in my last, came up in the
                                    House for consideration on Saturday. Mr. Edmonson from the
                                    County of 
                                        Dubois
                                    , moved to refer the resolution to a committee,
                                    consisting of one member of each Congressional District, with a
                                    view, doubtless, of either strangling the matter in its infancy
                                    or preventing action by the House until the close of the
                                    session, and especially until after the Senatorial election
                                    shall have taken place; for there certainly could be nothing
                                    gained by the delay; the matter has been so fully discussed in
                                    every town and neighborhood during the past summer, that no new
                                    facts could be elicited by a committee. After a protracted
                                    debate, however, the resolutions were referred by a strict party
                                    vote, to the committee; whereupon, Mr. Dunn of 
                                        Jefferson County
                                    , immediately offered a resolution, in the language
                                    of the Ordinance, instructing the committee to report a Joint
                                    Resolution to the House embodying the provisions of Mr.
                                    Julian's resolution, as previously stated. Mr. Riley of 
                                        Hancock
                                     moved to lay the resolution on the table, which
                                    motion, after a lengthy debate, finally prevailed; and the
                                    instructions were laid on the table by nearly a strict party
                                    vote, 64 to 44, and so the matter rests; and there the
                                    instructions will sleep the "sleep of death."
                        
                        An interesting rencounter took place last week at the
                                    "Palmer House" between two shining lights of
                                    the "harmonious" democracy—the Hon.
                                    James W. Borden, President Judge of the 12th Judicial Circuit,
                                    and the Hon. Heman H. Barbour, representative from the County of 
                                        Bartholomew
                                     wherein, after a mutual scratching and pulling of
                                    hair, without serious injury to either, the combatants were
                                    separated,—each one doubtless satisfied with the
                                    laurels won in the conflict, and willing to take repose.
                        But little business has yet been transacted by the Legislature
                                    besides the election of an unusual number of State Officers,
                                    which has consumed the ten days of the session which have
                                    already elapsed; and I will take occasion here to remark that in
                                    my humble judgment should our Constitution ever be amended,
                                    which many desire, it would be highly expedient to entrust the
                                    selection of a number of these officers directly to the people,
                                    who, to say the least, are as well qualified to make judicious
                                    selections as many of the Solons who find their way here. Each
                                    day's session of the Legislature costs the State over
                                    five hundred dollars, and hence more than five thousand dollars
                                    have already been expended in the election of the officers
                                    besides a 
                                        United States
                                     Senator and Secretary of State are yet to be
                                    chosen, which may consume a week more of time.
                        The Committee on Education have been instructed by resolution to
                                    report a bill embodying a system of free Common School
                                    Education, which is destined to occupy much of the time of the
                                    present Legislature concerning which the readers of the Courier will be advised in due time, after the
                                    committee shall have reported.
                        The streams and water courses in this part of the country have
                                    been much swollen by the recent rains; in consequence of which
                                    the arrival and departure of the mails, as well as travel, to
                                    and from this place, in many directions have been entirely
                                    interrupted and communication stopped. I also learn that the 
                                        Wabash
                                     and Erie Canal has been considerably injured by the
                                    freshet. I trust, however, the illstarred White
                                    Water Canal has escaped for once and yet I tremble to
                                    hear from it, lest it may have fallen a victim to the angry
                                    floods once more.
                        I have just seen the proceedings of your late Whig meeting in 
                                        New Castle
                                    , and read their resolutions, which undoubtedly
                                    embody the true Whig faith and the only doctrine, upon the
                                    subject of which they treat, which the Whig party can or ought
                                    to promulgate. How many of the Delegates will attend the State
                                    Convention here on the 3rd of January?
                        P. S.—Charles H. Test was elected Secretary of State
                                    today on the 14th ballot, by a union of the Whigs and
                                    Independent Democrats. A good selection considering the timber
                                    out of which the Legislature were called upon to select, you
                                    will readily admit. The Senate have postponed the House
                                    resolution to go into the election of 
                                        United States
                                     Senator, till next Monday.
                        
                                    Yours,
                                    M. L. B.
                                
                     
                  
               
                    
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              INDIANAPOLIS,
                           
                                    Dec. 17, 1848.
                        DEAR COURIER:
                        Now, that the elections are over, the crowd of strangers who have
                                    been at the Capitol witnessing the progress of events since the
                                    commencement of the session and attending to the interest of
                                    their favorite candidates, have dispersed and gone to their
                                    homes; there to reflect, doubtless, upon the ways and means
                                    whereby the successful aspirant was enabled to get his station,
                                    and how it was that the unsuccessful was doomed to discomfort
                                    and disappointment. The people's representatives having
                                    disposed of their favorites, can now press forward the
                                    legitimate business of legislation, which called them hither, in
                                    order that they may be enabled to return to their constituents
                                    and render an account of their stewardship.
                        Governor Whitcomb was on Thursday last elected to the 
                                        United States
                                     Senate in the place of Hon. E. A. Hannegan, the
                                    present incumbent, for the term of six years from the 4th of
                                    March next, by a majority of one vote—having
                                    previously received the nomination of his party in
                                    "caucus" over the distinguished gentlemen of
                                    the party, who were candidates for the station, and whose names
                                    I mentioned in my last letter. Well, the Governor has fought
                                    hard for the station, and endured "the winter of his
                                    discontent" with commendable fortitude, as well as the
                                    "wear and tear" of conscience and political
                                    consistency, to which he has been subjected by the Free Soilers;
                                    and now we shall see what "legal and constitutional
                                    means" do mean, when the object is to exclude slavery
                                    from 
                                        New Mexico
                                     and 
                                        California
                                    ; whether it be the declaratory humbug proposed by
                                    some wise gentleman of the present legislature simply saying, and no more, that "the
                                    territory is now free and ought to remain so"; or
                                    whether it be that bold and intelligible expression of the
                                    illustrious 
                                        Jefferson
                                    , in his memorable Ordinance that "slavery
                                    shall never exist there." The Whigs, to their credit be
                                    it spoken, supported that true-hearted, honest and patriotic
                                    Free Soiler, Caleb B. Smith, about whose opinions on this
                                    subject there could be no dispute, and no cavil, and whose
                                    talents would have done honor to the exalted station, but
                                    unfortunately for the country their voice was too feeble to be
                                    of any avail in a struggle against such fearful odds.
                        There are three principal matters which are likely to absorb a
                                    large portion of the time of the present General Assembly. These
                                    are the Common School System; the Probate System, and the
                                    present manner of assessing taxes. Neither of which has, as yet,
                                    been put into proper shape by the committees to whom they have
                                    been referred, and of course no action will be taken by the
                                    House until the reports of the Committees shall have been
                                    submitted. The inequalities, not to say injustice of the present
                                    mode of assessing the revenue are so manifest and palpable that
                                    something will certainly be done to remedy the evil by the
                                    present Legislature. It is known to be a fact, as a mere glance
                                    at the Auditor's report will show, that in many
                                    counties in the state, where there are wealthy men, the two
                                    principal items of their substance, which are  "money loaned at
                                    interest" and "money on hand", are
                                    never got by the assessor, and hence escape taxation, and this
                                    renders the burthen of the tax payers, where property is
                                    honestly assessed, just so much heavier.
                        In regard to the "School Bill", though that
                                    quetion has not yet been presented to the House, the principal
                                    matter of contention, I fancy will be the consolidation of the
                                    fund which shall be raised by taxation for the purpose of
                                    education; whether the money shall be actually transmitted to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     and paid into the State Treasury, and then be
                                    distributed again among the people of the whole State, or
                                    whether the funds shall remain in the County where they are
                                    raised and constitute a County instead of a State Fund. I favor
                                    the latter proposition, though I am free to admit the question
                                    is not without difficulty. It is a contest between the old
                                    wealthy counties and the new sparsely populated, in which I
                                    think the old have the supremacy, and will get the victory,
                                    whatever may be said of the justice and magnanimity of their
                                    cause. But you shall have more anon when I shall have more time.
                        
                                    Yours,
                                    M. L. B.
                                
                     
                  
               
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              INDIANAPOLIS,
                           
                                    Dec. 25th, 1848.
                        DEAR COURIER:
                        According to custom both branches of the Legislature adjourned on
                                    Saturday, to meet again tomorrow, and many of the members who
                                    reside in the Southern part of the State, continguous to the
                                    Rail Road, or the Ohio River, have availed
                                    themselves of the adjournment to spend Christmas with their
                                    families and neighbors, but those who reside in less favored
                                    regions of the State, where mud-roads are the only channels of
                                    communication, are unable to participate in the same felicity,
                                    and therefore surrender to the mud and ice.
                        A bill has passed both houses, authorizing the Auditor and
                                    Treasurer of State to borrow the sum of $95,000. in
                                    anticipation of the revenue for the current year which is not
                                    yet paid in, to be applied to the payment of the semi-annual
                                    installment of interest, which will fall due on the first of
                                    January next, to the bond holders under the Butler bill
                                    arrangement. This state pays an annual interest of
                                    $221,300. to these bond holders, which according to
                                    the provisions of the bill after 1853, will be increased to
                                    $327,702. three installments of which have already
                                    been promptly met. But suppose a sudden revulsion in the
                                    financial affairs of the nation were to take place, which many
                                    anticipate will occur again at no distant period; it might be
                                    proper to enquire, how long can the State continue to pay this
                                    enormous sum of money annually, in addition to her ordinary
                                    expenditures, for the purpose of maintaining civil government.
                        And if any one is disposed to hesitate concerning the interest
                                    which is a mere trifle, let me ask him how long it will be
                                    before the $7,575,-525. of principal, which is due
                                    these creditors, after surrendering to them the whole line of
                                    the great 
                                        Wabash
                                     and Erie Canal, and the Canal lands and
                                    appurtenances, thereto attached, are liquidated? Perhaps our
                                    grand-  children 50 years
                                    hence will ask the same question of the knowing ones at that
                                    time, who will be no better qualified to give a satisfactory
                                    solution to the question than can be given now. But there is
                                    another question I should like to propound to some one who could
                                    answer "without smiling in your face", and
                                    that is what benefit the people of 
                                        Henry County
                                     have ever derived from the vast expenditure of
                                    money, which caused the accumulation of this enormous public
                                    debt? Poor patient souls, they send their annual contribution to
                                    Caesar to swell the public treasure, and cannot see how they are
                                    to be benefitted, for their munificence.
                                    "But," say the internal improvement gamblers,
                                    who have got the Skate into her present difficulties,
                                    "the State must meet the interest promptly, or she will
                                    be disgraced, she must preserve her plighted faith";
                                    did it however, ever occur to you that [every one of] these
                                    "disinterested" patriots, who are so unsparing
                                    of their abuse upon every one who hesitates about voting for
                                    their "loan bills", their "revenue
                                    bills", and their "Butler bills", has
                                    the particular work of national improvement already finished,
                                    upon which he resides or in which he feels interested, and
                                    therefore the whole State must pay the debt. I
                                    desire to make the prediction without claiming for myself the
                                    gift of prophecy, that the trustees under the Butler bill
                                    arrangement will not only refuse to finish the two side cut
                                    canals in the counties of 
                                        Warren
                                     and Vermil-lion, which the bond holders are obliged
                                    by the terms of the arrangement to do, but they will actually
                                    abandon the whole concern below Terrehaute. And if they should
                                    finish the work according to the terms of their agreement, that
                                    part of it between Terrehaute and 
                                        Evansville
                                     will never pay 1 per cent on the cost of
                                    construction, for by the improvement of the 
                                        Wabash
                                     Rapids at 
                                        Vincennes
                                     that stream is now rendered entirely safe for
                                    steamboat navigation, and hence a canal running in a parallel
                                    direction will be wholly useless.
                        But you must excuse me, I did not intend to say so much when I
                                    sat down.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    M. L. B.
                                
                     
                  
               
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              INDIANAPOLIS,
                           
                                    December 26, 1848.
                        DEAR COURIER:
                        A bill has been introduced in the Senate, the object of which is
                                    to force the directors of the White Water
                                    Canal, to repair that portion of it lying between 
                                        Harrison
                                     and Lawrenceburgh, which they have not hitherto
                                    felt themselves able to do, but whether it can be passed through
                                    the Legislature, remains to be seen.
                        I devoted Christmas to an examination of the different benevolent
                                    Institutions which have been organized under the auspices of the
                                    Legislature, for the relief of the unfortunate, and which
                                    hitherto have been sustained with commendable liberality and
                                    munificence, by the people through their Representatives.
                        The Hospital for the Insane. This institution is situated two and
                                    a half miles west of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , near the National Road, on a tract of  land, comprising one hundred and
                                    sixty acres, purchased by the State, upon which there is now
                                    being constructed a large and commodious edifice, capable when
                                    finished, to accommodate two hundred and fifty patients. The
                                    building seems to be constructed of the most durable materials,
                                    and is by no means destitute of architectural beauty, and will
                                    cost, when finished, the sum of $65,000. There are
                                    now thirty-seven patients receiving the treatment of the
                                    institution, twenty of which are females, embracing the various
                                    grades of insanity, from the raging maniac to the simple-minded
                                    and inoffensive, who are unable to conceive why it is that they
                                    are placed there; some imagining that they are at a Tavern and
                                    others that they have simply called to pay a visit to some
                                    friends. Many causes have operated to produce the unfortunate
                                    condition of mind under which these persons labor, among which
                                    may be enumerated "unrequited love", failure
                                    in business, etc.
                        The Institute for the Blind. This institution is situated
                                    adjacent to the city on the North, and now numbers twenty-six
                                    inmates, male and female, who seem to live happily and indeed
                                    walk about the street with as much indifference as other people
                                    are wont to exhibit in passing, but how it is that they are
                                    enabled to go to church, and sit down in a particular pew,
                                    without a guide, it is difficult for me to conceive, or how it
                                    is that they can remember individuals from the sound of the
                                    voice alone, though they may not have heard it for
                                    years—I leave for philosophers to speculate and
                                    Phisiologists to understand. One little girl I shall never
                                    forget. She was called by the Matron of the Institute to play
                                    upon the Piano for the company, consisting of Dr. Hunt, member
                                    from the county of Laporte, and chairman of the committee on
                                    "Benevolent and Scientific Institutions", and
                                    other gentlemen, and you may imagine our surprise to see her
                                    perform difficult pieces of music on that instrument,
                                    accompanied with the voice, in such a manner as would do credit
                                    to Professors and Amateurs of the Art. But we were still more
                                    surprised to see the facility with which she could read the
                                    Scriptures, by means of raised letters, giving
                                    chapter and verse with the accuracy of a Clergyman.
                        The Asylum for the Deaf and Dumb. It seems that there are more of
                                    this unfortunate class (persons) than either of the others, for
                                    there are now in the Institution ninety-two, under the charge of
                                    Mr. Brown, as Superintendent, and Mrs. Bigger, Widow of the late
                                    Governor, as Matron, who seem to render entire satisfaction to
                                    the trustees and the public in their government of these doubly
                                    unfortunate class of human beings. Though deprived of hearing
                                    and speech you would be surprised to witness the facility with
                                    which they communicate thought, by means of signs which they of
                                    course will understand as the vehicles of communication with one
                                    another.
                        As yet, no permanent buildings have been provided for this class
                                    of the objects of public beneficence, but there is now in
                                    process of construction in the Eastern part of the city, a
                                    building designed by the State for their accommodation, which,
                                    however, will not be ready to receive them for 18 months or two
                                    years to come.
                        
                        Such is a hasty sketch of the benevolent institutions of the
                                    State, where unfortunate persons are educated and maintained at
                                    the public expense, and it is given not so much to afford
                                    information of these places, for it would fall short of that, as
                                    it is to attract the attention of those who may visit this city,
                                    and induce them to pay some attention to these places of charity
                                    and objects of benevolence.
                        How long this Legislature will set, I cannot tell but judging
                                    from the progress already made, and the amount of business yet
                                    to transact, I should suppose it will not adjourn before the
                                    latter part of January, indeed they have refused in the House to
                                    consider propositions to adjourn.
                        
                                    Yours as ever,
                                    M. L. B.
                                
                     
                  
               
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              INDIANAPOLIS,
                           
                                    Dec. 30, 1848.
                        DEAR COURIER:
                        His Excellency, Governor Whitcomb, sent in his resignation to
                                    both branches of the General Assembly yesterday, in consequence
                                    of which Hon. P. C. Dunning, Lt. Governor, and President of the
                                    Senate, whose able and impartial course as a presiding officer
                                    have won for him the commendation of all parties, ex officio,
                                    becomes Governor of the State of Indiana and chief Executive
                                    officer, and will serve as such, until a successor shall have
                                    been chosen by the people, and duly inducted into office. The
                                    abdication of the Governor likewise creates a vacancy in the
                                    office of Lieut. Governor, which will be filled by the Senate
                                    choosing one of their body for that station, to serve in like
                                    manner. Thirty ballot-ings have already been had and two days
                                    consumed by that body, facetiously denominated, "the
                                    House of Lords", for a successor to Governor Dunning,
                                    but as yet without success, and perhaps two more days will be
                                    spent, before a choice can be made, such is the number of
                                    aspirants for the station. The School bill was reported by the
                                    committee on education, to the House this morning and three
                                    hundred copies ordered to be printed, one of which you shall
                                    have as soon as the printing is done, in order that you may
                                    advise the people of its many provisions in your next number.
                        
                           
                                        California
                                    .—The excitement in reference to this
                                    modern El Dorado, exceeds anything in history, and to find a
                                    parallel we must resort to the regions of romance. It is said
                                    forty vessels were advertised to leave the city of 
                                        New York
                                    , alone, and that numerous expeditions are being
                                    fitted out in 
                              Boston, Philadelphia, Baltimore
                            and 
                                        Washington
                                    , and it is computed that more than fifty thousand
                                    persons from various sections of the country are either
                                    preparing to go or are now on their way to this land of
                                    enchantment. The "yellow fever" seems to have
                                    possessed all classes, old and young, rich and poor, and it is
                                    now certain that many thousands of our population are destined
                                    to be carried off with it, unless the exciting cause of the
                                    complaint shall be removed. That the gold mines in that country
                                    are the richest and most productive, of any in the world, which
                                    have hitherto been discovered, is a fact which no longer  admits of doubt after the
                                    accumulated testimony of all who have visited this region; but
                                    should the gold mania finally prove to be a humbug, two good
                                    results will come of it. In the first place, this delightful
                                    region, bordering on the Pacific, so eminently Italian in soil
                                    and climate and English in commerce and navigation facilities,
                                    will become populated by a hardy, adventurous, intelligent and
                                    free population from the Northern and Eastern states of this 
                                        Union
                                    , and secondly as a consequence of this, the curse
                                    of human slavery with such a population, hostile to its
                                    introduction, will never find an abiding place in that country.
                                    Already have the people there petitioned Congress for a
                                    Territorial government, and prayed that this institution shall
                                    be excluded from them, now and forever hereafter, and it is to
                                    be hoped that so just a request will not be refused by Congress.
                        The Cholera—Next to the gold mines of 
                                        California
                                    , which is always the prominent theme here in
                                    conversation, (for men in this country are actuated more by a
                                    desire for wealth than a fear of death) this dreadful epidemic
                                    claims public attention, and consideration. After having run its
                                    course in the old Old World, commencing in farther 
                                        India
                                    , more than a year ago, it has crossed the Atlantic
                                    and made its second appearance on this Continent, simultaneously
                                    in the three principal cities of the 
                              Union; New York, Baltimore
                            and 
                                        New Orleans
                                    , where it is raging with great violence, and most
                                    inevitably, ere long, will penetrate the interior of the
                                    country, if it has not already done so. Indeed it is currently
                                    circulated that the disease has already reached 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    , and that several deaths have ensued, at all events
                                    it is known that deaths have occurred on the steam-boats, bound
                                    from 
                                        New Orleans
                                     to 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     and that great consternation pervades the people of
                                    the former city who are leaving it in large numbers daily, for
                                    the upper country. Now if you want to see another Legislative
                                        stampede by the people's
                                    Representatives, such a one as occurred last Winter, in
                                    apprehension of the small-pox, "only more so",
                                    just let it be understood that the Cholera has reached this
                                    city, as many suppose it will in a short time, and you may rest
                                    assured that there will be no more controversy about long and
                                    short sessions, or disposition to "shuffle
                                    responsibility" from one party to another about the
                                    adjournment. I am not particularly advised as to the health of
                                    this place, but judging from the large number of obituary
                                    notices, and other evidences to be seen, I should suppose it to
                                    be far from good. Several members have been much indisposed, but
                                    are now generally convalescent.
                        
                                    Yours,
                                    M. L. B.
                                
                     
                  
               
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                              INDIANAPOLIS,
                           
                                    January 8, 1849.
                        DEAR COURIER:
                        I apprehend the most popular measure which has passed both houses
                                    the present session is the resolution to adjourn on Tuesday, the
                                    16th Inst., after a session of forty-three days duration; though
                                    it must be confessed that to adjourn thus early, will require
                                    more than ordinary  industry
                                    on the part of the Legislature, else the amount of
                                    "unfinished" will exceed the amount of
                                    finished business.
                        I apprised you heretofore that the people of Lawrenceburgh,
                                    through their agents here were making a vigorous effort, and
                                    that not without hope of success, to compel the Directors of the
                                        White Water Canal to repair the fifteen
                                    miles of that work lying below 
                                        Harrison
                                    . Or in the event they failed to do so, the Canal
                                    must be forfeited and go into the hands of a Receiver, who was
                                    directed by the bill to repair the Canal between these points,
                                    out of the tolls and revenues derived therefrom. No little
                                    excitement was. created in consequence of this movement, between
                                    the Representatives of the extremes of the work, 
                                        Wayne
                                     and 
                                        Dearborn
                                     Counties. For ten days this was the constant theme
                                    of discussion in and out of the House, among those interested.
                                    Well, there is a maxim which says, "Extremes will
                                    sometimes meet," and its truth is most happily
                                    illustrated in the present instance. Suddenly you see the men,
                                    who but a few hours before "looked daggers at each
                                    other", cheek by jowl, bury the weapons of their
                                    warfare, and unite to effect a common
                                    object—compromise their claims and rush a bill
                                    through the Senate, whilst the uninitiated stand and gaze at
                                    each other in mute astonishment; being surprised and captured by
                                    this union of apparently diverse interests. The bill which
                                    passed the Senate and is now pending in the House provides that
                                    the Company shall repair the work by the fist of October next;
                                    and that the right of the State to redeem the work within twenty
                                    years, which was secured to the State by the Charter, shall be
                                    surrendered to the Company, reserving to the State any profits
                                    the Company may make over and above eight per cent, an object
                                    which has long been sought but without success. Verily, White
                                    Water is some when she can unite her forces,
                                    you may depend.
                        A bill has also passed both Houses, prohibiting the sale of
                                    intoxicating liquors in 
                              Wayne, Spiceland, Greensboro
                            and 
                                        Harrison
                                     Townships in the county of 
                                        Henry
                                    . The several acts authorizing the erection of a new
                                    Seminary in 
                                        Henry County
                                    , amending the charter of the 
                                        Henry County
                                     Turnpike Company, and the Knightstown and
                                    Shelbyville Rail Road Company; also the act amendatory of the
                                    charter of the Town of 
                                        New Castle
                                    , have passed and are now the law.
                        The School Bill, a copy of which I sent you, has been debated in
                                    Committee of the whole House two days, during which time
                                    numerous amendments were proposed, principally by the enemies of
                                    the system, which were uniformly voted down. And I am now
                                    convinced that the bill will pass the House and be submitted to
                                    the Senate early in the present week, without any important
                                    amendments; but whether it will pass that body with the same
                                    facility, is in my judgment problematical.
                        A new Revenue Bill, providing for the assessment of taxes has
                                    just been brought in and ordered to be printed. Sufficient time,
                                    however, will not be left to act on a measure of so much
                                    importance, before the session must necessarily terminate,
                                    according to the resolution for adjournment already passed.
                        
                        Well, this is the memorable 8th of January, whose annual return
                                    bring to our recollection the battle of 
                                        New Orleans
                                    , Packenham and Cotton Bags; and which the
                                    democracy, as they are pleased to style themselves, have set
                                    apart and consecrated, in honor of the Old Heroe's
                                    victory, for the purpose of holding their Conventions and
                                    nominating their candidates; one of which is now in progress at
                                    the Capitol. Gov. Whitcomb was chosen President of the
                                    Convention, and edified the respectable audience in attendance
                                    with his usual amount of demagogical cant about
                                    "democracy" and the "war of
                                    liberty" as he termed it, which we so lately waged with
                                    unfortunate 
                                        Mexico
                                    ; and to do him justice, acted the part of
                                    "Mr. Insidius Cutsnell" in the dramic piece
                                    recently written by the Chapmans, most admirably. Though it is
                                    true he performed some parts not "contained in the
                                    bills" equally creditably to himself. There are no
                                    delegates, I believe, in attendance from 
                                        Henry County
                                    , and the duty of speaking and acting for the
                                    democracy of your county will devolve upon the "Free
                                    Soiler" who holds a seat in the south end of the
                                    Capitol and will no doubt faithfully represent them. Joseph A.
                                    Wright of 
                                        Parke County
                                     lately a bitter opponent of the Wilmot Proviso, has
                                    been nominated as their candidate for Governor, against Judge
                                    Embree, the Whig candidate and we shall now see whether the
                                    noble stand the latter has taken in Congress upon the subject of
                                    Slavery and slave extension, will be appreciated by the people,
                                    or whether the doctrine taught by some moralists, that there is
                                    more hope of an abandoned sinner, than a moral man, is more
                                    likely to win favor and esteem.
                        
                                    Yours as ever,
                                    M. L. B.
                                
                     
                  
               
            
         
         
            II
            OLD TIME STAR ROUTES
            Written by Honorable Martin L. Bundy for the 
                  
                            New Castle
                         Courier of January 4, 1884:
            
                    In the year 1838, and for several years prior, William Silver resided and
                        kept a store in a house which formerly stood on what is known as
                        "Shroyer Corner" in 
                            New Castle
                        , and during that year he removed to Pendleton, where he still
                        resides at an advanced age. He was the contractor for carrying the 
                            United States
                         mails once a week on horseback from 
                            Centerville
                        , via 
                            Jacksonburgh
                        , 
                            Nettle Creek
                        , 
                            Boyd
                        , 
                            New Castle
                        , 
                            Middletuwn
                        , 
                            Chesterfield
                        , 
                            Anderson
                         and Pendleton to Nobles-ville, and for the year 1835 he
                        employed me to perform the service at $5.00 a month. It was not,
                        in fact, possible to carry the mails in any other way than on horseback,
                        because the streams were not bridged and the roads were impassible for
                        vehicles of any kind, but it is perhaps needless to say the mails never
                        failed to reach their destination during 
                        my administration, though often the rivers were crossed by swimming them.
                    In the summer time and when the weather was pleasant, the trip, which
                        occupied five days of each week, was one of unalloyed pleasure, because
                        there was ample time and opportunity for sport and amusement on
                            White River at 
                            Anderson
                         and 
                            Noblesville
                        , and on 
                            Fall Creek
                         at Mid-dletown and Pendleton, or on White
                        Water at 
                            Centerville
                         and I look back to the year spent in that occupation with
                        satisfaction.
                    I do not know why the mails started from 
                            Centerville
                         unless it was because the great lawyers and politicians of the
                            White Water Valley nearly all resided there and
                        there was a weekly newspaper published at that place by Samuel C. Meredith,
                        who still lives at an advanced age in 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Jacksonburg was then a place of some importance, but 
                            Hagerstown
                         had no existence, and the post office was called
                        "Nettle Creek." 
                            Anderson
                         was a village which might have contained one hundred
                        inhabitants, and had shortly before become the county-seat. The site on
                        which it stood was a vast hazel thicket where one might easily hide to elude
                        pursuit, and the so-called streets were merely openings cut through the
                        thicket. R. N. Williams held all the county offices, clerk, recorder and
                        postmaster, and I question if all of them yielded an annual income of three
                        hundred dollars, and the same may be said of General Stephenson, who held
                        all the offices of 
                            Hamilton County
                        , with a like income and was also postmaster. But what shall I
                        say of Middle-town? Henry Peirce kept a store in a small log hut composed of
                        round logs, mostly buckeye, which would sprout in the spring of the year,
                        for the logs had great vitality. He was also the postmaster and it was here
                        that Jack Fessler and the other Virginians from Rockingham and else where
                        had to call for their mail. My venerable friend, Chauncy H. Burr, who lived
                        there and was engaged in business, can verify what I say. Whiskey was
                        abundant and cheap at all the towns I have named and was freely used by the
                        inhabitants, probably for the same purpose that Andy Johnson recommended it
                        to the people of West 
                            Tennessee
                         as "an antidote for the ague."
                    The people gathered at the postoffices on mail days to hear the news, and the
                        carrier, who was supposed to know the contents of the bag he carried, was
                        plied with questions. Very few people took newspapers, but depended on
                        others for news. Having been partly raised among the Quakers, who never
                        neglect education, I was counted a good reader, and to gratify them, when
                        time permitted, I would put my hand into the mail bag and take out General
                        Stephenson's paper from 
                            Philadelphia
                         and read it to them, and this might be repeated half a dozen
                        times each week, but the paper always reached its owner at 
                            Noblesville
                         safely.
                    As to 
                            New Castle
                        , it was rather larger than 
                            Anderson
                         and better improved, but that terrible scourge, the cholera,
                        had two years before swept away one-tenth of the population, and there was
                        little to encourage improvement. The streets were in a deplorable condition,
                        and wagons frequently mired down opposite the public square and were
                        complled  to use the jacksaw for relief,
                        and as to stage coaches, such things never visited that locality.
                    I carried the 
                            Centerville
                         paper to many farmers along my route, who would put up a box to
                        receive it by the roadside, and gladly pay me a small remuneration. I can
                        name a number of them: Judge Jacob Thorp, the bell maker; Moses Robertson,
                        Jesse Forkner, Dr. Buchanan and Ezekiel Leavell, who have all passed away,
                        but one of my customers, Michael Shively, is still an active man. The men I
                        have named all lived in Liberty Township and were among the foremost
                        citizens of the county.
                    At the time I name there was no such thing in existence in this country as an
                        express company, and the only way parcels could be conveyed was by a
                        messenger sent for the purpose. 
                            Centerville
                         contained a number of large dry goods stores and not
                        infrequently gentlemen residing on my route would desire me to buy dresses
                        for their wives, which I did, and my selections, I am glad to know, always
                        pleased the ladies so well that their lords cheerfully handed me a quarter
                        for my services, which placed me in funds so ample that my companions in our
                        amusements never failed to call on my purse for aid, to which it cheerfully
                        responded.
                    I have already alluded to 
                            Centerville
                         as a place of great importance, and so it was. I often had time
                        to go to the court house where Judge Charles H. Test was holding court, the
                        first man I ever saw holding judicial position and often as I heard him
                        order the lawyers to take their seats and give opinions, I wondered if there
                        ever was as great a man as Judge Test. He had a circuit extending from the
                            Ohio River to the State of 
                            Michigan
                        . He held the courts twice a year and travelled the circuit on
                        horseback, the only practicable way, and his annual salary was precisely
                        $700 for such a service. This sum would barely command the
                        services of a good lawyer at this day, but possibly the honor then was taken
                        as part pay. I confess to some admiration for heroes and the heroic in
                        history, but I fear the early and faithful services of such public servants
                        amounting to heroism are not sufficiently appreciated by those whom they
                        served. If we consider age, qualification and responsibility the pay of
                        Judge Test was hardly equal to my own as carrier of the mails. He still
                        lives at the age of 84 in the vicinity of 
                            Chicago
                         and is understood to be in straightened financial
                        circumstances. He was nearly a man when the state of Indiana was admitted to
                        the 
                            Union
                        , and I have heard him say that he helped survey the lots in 
                            Indianapolis
                         when it was laid off. His name appears among the lawyers first
                        admitted to practice in 
                            Henry County
                        , March 1821, and he bids fair to live out the century.
                
         
         
         
            Reviews
            
               The Early Days of St. Gabriel's, by J. L. Heineman.
                    Privately printed, 
                        Connersville
                    , 1925. 116 pages. Illustrated.
            In spite of all that has been said and written about the over-emphasis upon
                    military and political history, present day textbooks and courses of study still
                    give over forty per cent of space to war and politics. Social, economic,
                    intellectual, and religious history have not yet been given due recognition.
                    Before the religious history of the American people can receive proper
                    recognition much work remains to be done in a scientific spirit. What has been
                    done has too often been done to defend, extenuate, or glorify a particular
                    church or denomination. Much local work needs to be done before the larger story
                    can be properly told.
            It is from such a point of view that The Early Days of St.
                        Gabriel's should be approached. It tells the interesting story
                    of the founding and development of the Catholic church in 
                        Connersville
                    , Indiana, a town of about 9,000 inhabitants. Incidently, it makes a
                    real contribution when other phases of local history are touched upon; among
                    these the following may be mentioned: the French regime, Indian traders,
                    Governor William Henry Harrison, John Conner, the founder of 
                        Connersville
                    , and the establishment of the first courthouse, school-house, and
                    stage in 
                        Connersville
                    . The heroic and self-sacrificing labors of the Methodist circuit
                    rider in pioneer days in Indiana have been well described in historical
                    literature, but the equally difficult labors of the early Catholic priests have
                    not yet been adequately told. Hence a description of their labors in this one
                    local community is welcome.
            The proof reading for this book could have been more accurately done (see tenses
                    of verbs on page 2, for example). The statement on page 1 that the
                    "vast region of America south of the Great Lakes first became known
                    through the  labors of Catholic
                    missionaries" would be more accurate if there were added the phrase
                    "and Frenchmen interested in the Indian trade and in enlarging the
                    French colonial empire." It would be interesting and significant to
                    know more about such topics as the relation of St. Gabriel's to the
                    Irish laborers upon canals; about the particular way in which the American or
                    Know-Nothing party developed locally and how it affected the life of St.
                    Gabriel's and Connersville and, vice versa, how St.
                    Gabriel's affected this party; about the effect that the temperance
                    movement in this church had upon building up a sentiment for local option and
                    later, for county option; and about the development and changes in the
                    curriculum of the parochial school attached to St. Gabriel's and the
                    relations it had to the state in such matters as taxation and textbooks.
            It is n ot easy to write local history in the light of larger national movements,
                    but only thus does it reach the highest excellence. An index and bibliography
                    would increase the usefulness of this work. A description of the nature and
                    location of the manuscripts used would be more valuable than some of the notes
                    printed as appendices.
            St. Gabr iel's Church is fortunate to have its historian, and should
                    profit in many ways from his work. Most churches are not so fortunate. Such
                    histories of local churches will assist in making possible due recognition to
                    religious history in the story of the development of the American people.
            A. T . VOLWILER. Indiana University.
         
         
            
               County Government and Administration in 
                            Iowa
                        
               . Edited by Benjamin F. Shambaugh, 
                        Iowa City
                    , State Historical Society of 
                        Iowa
                    . 1925. Pp. vi., 716.
            This i s the fourth cooperative volume issued by the society in its
                    "Applied History Series." The county has been called
                    "the dark continent of American government" because nowhere in
                    the country has it been more than casually explored. This epithet can no longer
                    be applied to the county in 
                        Iowa
                    , for the cooperators in this volume have left no corner of the  subject unvisited. Chapters are included
                    dealing with each of the major county offices, including among others the
                    supervisors, auditor, treasurer, recorder and sheriff, while other chapters are
                    devoted to the several functions of county government: welfare work, health,
                    highways, finance and taxation. In all, eighteen chapters are devoted to these
                    matters. The documentary materials made use of are chiefly the statutes and such
                    meagre printed reports touching the work of county officers as are available.
                    These were supplemented by personal investigations of the work as carried on by
                    the officials in a number of typical counties.
            The conclusions reached by the several investigators are that, on the whole,
                    county government in 
                        Iowa
                     is fairly well adapted to local conditions in the state, and that
                    it is being administered honestly and with reasonable efficiency. The several
                    authors have not hesitated, however, to point out here and there directions in
                    which, in their opinion, improvement might be made.
            The superintendent of the Historical Society of 
                        Iowa
                     and his collaborators deserve commendation for thus having placed
                    before the citizens of the state a picture of their county government,
                    historical and actual, such as is available to the citizens of no other
                state.
         
      
   
