
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 5, Issue 2, pages 49-84. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:5+issue:2+year:1909&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            NORTH CAROLINA AND INDIANA.
            A TIE THAT BINDS.
            
                    BY ADOLPH ROGERS.
                
            [A paper read before the 
                        Henry County
                     Historical Society at 
                        Newcastle
                    , April 27, 1909.]
            A RECENT visit to the old North State suggested this paper. It was my third visit
                    to my ancestral State, for my mother's people, the Drapers, came from 
                        Perquimans
                     county, while the Rogers's lived in 
                        Surry county
                    , where my father was born and where several generations of my
                    family lived before him. My mother's family were Quakers, while my
                    father's people were Baptists. They were not owners of slaves, but were
                    landlords, owning their own lands, and, I trust I may be permitted to say, were
                    honest and God-fearing, and very worthy people to have for ancestors. Between
                    the older States, from which came the first settlers and pioneers of our own
                    State, there are strong ties of blood and sentiment, which bind the older and
                    newer communities.
            The region embraced in what are now 
                  Wayne, Randolph
               
                    and 
                        Henry counties
                    , in Indiana, lay in a favored region, midway between the
                        Ohio river and the northern boundaries of the State. It
                    was a favored region to the pioneer coming from the sterile fields of 
                        North Carolina
                     and the unfertile and mountainous regions of 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    . When the first settlements were made in the Whitewater
                        valley and the territory adjacent, the country, excepting a few
                    treeless tracts, was a dense forest. Giant trees of oak, walnut and poplar,
                    destined later to become so important in the erection of homes and supplying
                    them with furniture, reared aloft their majestic heads. Sugar trees, maples,  beech, hickory, elm, ash and other varieties
                    of trees abounded in the forests. Magnificent sycamores grew in abundance along
                    the numerous streams. The woods were full of game and the rivers and creeks
                    teemed with fish. The climate was equable and the soil deep and fertile. But the
                    long years of labor in clearing away the heavy forests, building homes and
                    opening up of roads can scarcely be appreciated by the descendants of the noble
                    men and women whose toils and privations and self-sacrifice in a frontier
                    community laid the foundations of our State. No homage is too great to be paid
                    to the memory of the brave pioneers who came from. the South to eastern Indiana
                    between the years 1810 and 1835, and contributed so much to the material,
                    intellectual and moral development of the community.
            The first settlers coming into the new State from 
                        North Carolina
                     came principally from 
                  Perquimans, Iredell, Randolph, Guilford, Surry, Stokes, Forsyth
                and 
                        Davidson
                     counties. In this connection it is interesting to note the history
                    and traditions of a State which has contributed so much to our own life. In its
                    history, 
                        North Carolina
                     possesses a field as old and interesting as any of the 
                        New England
                     colonies, for here great problems of life, both civil and
                    religious, have, been wrought out. Its coast was the scene of the first efforts
                    of the English to colonize America, and though no trace remains of Sir Walter
                    Raleigh's settlements, yet the capital of this old commonwealth
                    worthily perpetuates his name. The settlement of the Carolinas began early in
                    the seventeenth century, and long prior to the Revolution the settlements
                    extended from the Atlantic coast to the Blue Ridge. The first settlers of 
                        North Carolina
                     were principally Scoteh-Irish, with an admixture of Germans,
                    Huguenots and Moravians, and the settlements had so grown that at the time of
                    the Revolution the colony had a population of a third of a million.
            When the first census was taken, in 1790, but two States, 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , surpassed 
                        North Carolina
                     in population. Including slaves, the population was 393,751, while 
                        Massachusetts
                     had a population of 378,787. In religious belief the first
                    inhabitants were principally Presbyterians, Moravians, Lutherans and Quakers.
                    Religious toleration was a cardinal principle of the colony. A large number of 
                        North Carolina
                     Quakers came into 
                    
                        Wayne
                    , 
                        Randolph
                     and 
                        Henry counties
                     in the quarter of a century prior to 1835. These worthy people were
                    opposed to slavery and sought new homes in the Northwest as a land of greater
                    opportunity, and in the great struggle for the elimination of slavery from the
                    territory north of the Ohio river, they were a prominent
                    and decisive factor in favor of freedom.
            The firm convictions of these newcomers into our State upon political and
                    religious questions left a deep impress upon the new State. The first settlers
                    of 
                        North Carolina
                     were devoted to civil and religious liberty, and were not more
                    attracted to the colony by reason of its genial climate and fertile soil than by
                    its tolerance in religious matters. For all efforts to establish the English
                    Church as an institution of the government failed in 
                        North Carolina
                    . And as an instance of the patriotic spirit of the Carolinians, the
                    encroachments of the mother country upon the rights of the people and numerous
                    acts of tyranny so aroused the people of 
                        Mecklenburg county
                     that the settlers in and about 
                        Charlotte
                    , on May 20, 1775, promulgated the famous Mecklenburg Declaration of
                    Independence. A beautiful monument in the court-house yard at 
                        Charlotte
                     commemorates the memory of the signers of this first Declaration.
                    And when Lord Cornwallis invaded the old colony there was a rush to arms, and
                    the battle of King's Mountain, in 1780, and of Guilford Court House, in
                    1781, were fought upon 
                        North Carolina
                     soil.
            And thus the first settlers of Indiana from 
                        North Carolina
                    , schooled in religious liberty and love of country, and the Quakers
                    especially, with their pronounced opposition to slavery, were a noble band of
                    pioneers to form a new State. Among the 
                        North Carolina
                     families who came into 
                        Henry county
                     within the first few years after its organization in 1822, were the
                    Bales's, Ballengers, Bogues, Boones, Bonds, Brookshires, Bundys,
                    Byrketts, Charles's, Coffins, Drapers, Elliotts, Forkners, Gardiners,
                    Gilberts, Griffins, Halls, Hammers, Harveys, Healys, Henlys, Hinshaws, Hiatts,
                    Hobsons, Hodsons, Holadays, Hollingsworths, Hubbards, Hutsons, Jeffrys,
                    Jones's, Lambs, Macys, Mendenhalls, Modlins, Murpheys, Needhams,
                    Newbys, Nicholsons, Nixons, Overmans, Palmers, Parkers, Paynes,
                    Phelps's, Pierces, Piersons, Polks, Presnalls, Ratliffs, Reddings,
                    Reeces, Rogers's,  Saints, Shellys,
                    Staffords, Swaffords, Tweedys, Unthanks, Whites, Whitworths, Wickershams,
                    Wilsons, and many other families whose names I do not now have knowledge of.
                    Several of these 
                        North Carolina
                     families first settled on 
                  Nantucket
                        Island, Massachusetts
               , and later migrated to the Carolinas. In the
                    north part of our county, such well-known 
                        North Carolina
                     families as the Koons's, the Fraziers, the Wests, Julians
                    and Cannadays found homes. Some of these families and others came to Indiana
                    from 
                        Tennessee
                    , but were of 
                        North Carolina
                     extraction.
            In a society like this, devoted to historical research, and the majority of whose
                    members are descended from the old North State, it is interesting to recall some
                    of the traits of character of our ancestors. The people of 
                        North Carolina
                     were ever conservative. It was one of the last colonies to adopt
                    the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    . So great was the love of its people for the Union that it was one
                    of the last States to secede. But when the shock of battle came in the great
                    Civil War, no other Sauthern State, according to its population, contributed so
                    many men to the ranks of the Confederate armies, and the per cent, of its losses
                    upon the field of battle was larger than that of any other Southern State. And
                    in the ranks of the armies of the North were thousands of brave men, descendants
                    of Carolinians, rendering valiant service for the cause of the Union.
            And there is also a tie of blood which binds many of our people to the old and
                    historic State of 
                        Virginia
                    . The first settlers of the northern portions of our county, and
                    especially 
                        Prairie
                     township, were from the Old Dominion, with an admixture of settlers
                    from 
                  North Carolina, Tennessee
                and a few from
                    other States. The 
                        Virginia
                     families included the Beavers's, Bechtelheimers, Bouslogs,
                    Bunners, Burners, Currents, Fadeleys, Garretts, Hales, Hartleys, Hedricks,
                    Hess's, Hickmans, Hoovers, Huffs, Ices, Johnsons, Luellens, Maddys,
                    Melletts, Millers, Painters, Peacocks, Peckenpaughs, Powers's, Reeds,
                    Ridgways, Robes, Sanders's, Scotts, Shiveleys, Showalters, Stricklers,
                    Swearingens, Vances, Veach's, Waters's, Whislers,
                    Williams's, and others.
            A considerable number of the first settlers of eastern Indiana and of 
                        Henry county
                     came from other States than 
                        North Carolina
                     and 
                        Virginia
                    . 
                  Pennsylvania,
                            New Jersey, Tennessee
                and 
                    
                        Kentucky
                     contributed to our population, and a few came from 
                        New York
                    , but there was very little of the 
                        New England
                     element among the first inhabitants. A few persons of foreign birth
                    were among the first settlers: John Anderson, one of the early associate judges,
                    was a native of 
                        Ireland
                    , and Colonel John J. Lemanowsky, famous as a teacher and preacher
                    and man of affairs, was a native of 
                        Poland
                    , and had served as an officer under the great Napoleon.
            The early settlers from 
                        North Carolina
                     found homes in the southern and western portions of the county. The
                    majority of them were Friends, who, with their select schools and strict rules
                    concerning marriage, were less liberal than now. But they were ever the friends
                    of education, and led pure and upright lives. They were always the friends of
                    the oppressed and the helpers of the poor and lowly in life. They were
                    progressive in adopting the newer methods of agriculture and were prosperous,
                    but for a long time painted churches, tombstones and music, tending, as they
                    thought, to voluptuous thoughts, were held in disfavor. In politics they were
                    first Whigs and then Freesoilers and Republicans, and under all circumstances
                    most law-abiding citizens.
            Many of the 
                        Virginia
                     settlers possessed the hereditary pride of ancestry common to the
                    first families of the Old Dominion. Some of them had been slave-holders, and the
                    Hickmans brought with them their slaves and gave them liberty. Many of them were
                    zealous in the cause of religion. A few families brought with them their hounds
                    and hunters' outfits, for the customs and aristocratic diversions of
                    their English ancestors were yet in vogue in their native State. They were
                    conservative and slower than their 
                        North Carolina
                     neighbors to give up the methods of farming used by their
                    forefathers, upon the hillsides of 
                        Virginia
                    . In religion they were principally Baptists, and in politics
                    Democrats. They were hospitable, chivalric toward woman, highspirited and quick
                    to resent an insult. With advancing years, the fine farms, beautiful homes and
                    excellent highways, and the brick and frame churches and schoolhouses, taking
                    the place of the woods and cabins and bridle paths of early times, came into
                    existence, and while other States have contributed many noble men and women to
                    make up the population of our county, no 
                    other States have left such an abiding impress upon its material, political and
                    intellectual development as 
                        North Carolina
                     and 
                        Virginia
                    .
            I was greatly impressed during my recent visit to 
                        North Carolina
                     with the improvements and advancement made since my first visit to
                    the State.* Improved methods of farming are in
                    vogue. Many of the old pine forests are being cleared up, and I saw numerous
                    ditches in the low lands, reminding me of home. 
                        Mecklenburg county
                     can give object lessons in road building, for here they cut down
                    the high places and fill in the low places, making their fine macadam roads as
                    level as streets.
            But one thing brought a blush to the cheek of every descendant of the
                    Carolinians, and that was the fact that the census of 1900 showed a larger per
                    cent, of illiteracy in 
                        North Carolina
                     than in any other State. There was some excuse for this. The
                    population in many parts of the State is sparse, and the country mountainous.
                    Happily, this condition of illiteracy is being removed. Some two millions of
                    dollars, I was informed, were appropriated for educational purposes by the
                    State, within a recent period, in addition to the local school revenues. In
                    traversing a considerable portion of the State, a few weeks ago, I noticed new
                    schoolhouses everywhere. They dot the mountain sides and the lowlands. And in
                    the happy faces of the school children, upon the playgrounds, I could not have
                    determined, except from the physical aspect of the country, whether I was in
                    Indiana, 
                        Iowa
                     or 
                        New York
                    , so homogeneous are our people.
            Unfailing courtesy is the rule everywhere. As I came out of Dobson in a buggy I
                    met two countrymen in the pine woods, who lifted their hats to me. But a
                    Southern gentleman lamented to me that the old-time Southern politeness was
                    slowly disappearing. Commercialism has taken hold of the South, and there is a
                    rush for wealth there, especially noticeable in the cities. With the vast
                    resources of the South and its splendid climate this could hardly be otherwise.
                    And when people are in a hurry or deeply engrossed, they are never quite so
                    polite as when they have leisure. Slavery created a leisure class in the South
                    who cultivated the amenities of life, and this traditionary courtesy, even among
                    all classes, is everywhere apparent.
            
               
                  * My first visit was in 1900.
            
            
            While visiting my daughter in 
                        Charlotte
                    , I read several editorials in that excellent newspaper, The 
                            Charlotte
                         Observer, concerning the colloquialisms and peculiar
                    expressions long in use in the Carolinas. There was not a word or expression
                    mentioned which I had not heard as a boy in Indiana. And language and dialect is
                    always a proof of kinship.
            There is a genuine respect for the Sabbath in 
                        North Carolina
                    , even in the cities and larger towns. The Sundays, in their
                    quietude, reminded me of the Sundays in the old Sugar Grove neighborhood, west
                    of 
                        Newcastle
                    , when I was a boy. And the people are church-goers. A lady said to
                    me that persons who did not attend some church would not long have any standing
                    in the community. In the country I found some of the churches unlocked. Two of
                    them I entered, and I reverently stood in the old Swan Creek Baptist Church,
                    five miles from the beautiful little town of Elkin, where my ancestors had
                    worshiped.
            James Bryce, the British ambassador, recently said, in addressing the students of
                    the University of 
                        California
                    , that 
                        California
                     is not only a State, but a country. It can truly be said that 
                        North Carolina
                     is not only a State, but a country, stretching five hundred miles
                    from the coast to its western extremity. It embraces every variety of soil, from
                    the rice fields of the seaboard counties to the corn, wheat, cotton and tobacco
                    fields, which I saw side by side in 
                  Iredell, Yadkin
                and 
                        Surry
                     counties. More varieties of trees grow here than in any other State
                    in the Union, and to this fact, Biltmore, near 
                        Asheville
                    , the most magnificent country estate in 
                        America
                    , owes its existence, for after investigation and with thorough
                    knowledge upon the subject, George W. Vanderbilt selected western 
                        North Carolina
                    , "the land of the sky," as the one place in the 
                        United States
                     best adapted for the founding of a great country estate, where the
                    greatest variety of trees, shrubs and plants might be cultivated in the greatest
                    perfection. The climate ranges from the almost tropical temperature of the
                    southeastern coast to that of colder countries, as found in the mountain
                    regions, while the resources of the State are varied and practically
                    inexhaustible.
            The valuable publication recently issued by the Census Department, entitled
                    "Heads of Families, First Census of the United  States: 1790," for the State of 
                        North Carolina
                    , contains the name of my great-grandfather, Josiah Draper, in 
                        Perauimans
                     county. My daughter, Mrs. Hugh Montgomery, and her husband and
                    children, dwell in the beautiful city of 
                        Charlotte
                    . It is a far cry from the time of the first census to the present,
                    for my family in 
                        North Carolina
                    , and this must be my excuse for dwelling so long upon the history
                    and the splendid virtues of the people of this grand old commonwealth.
         
         
         
            SOME RELIGIOUS DEVELOPMENTS IN INDIANA.
            
                    BY CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN.
                
            IN this paper I purpose to discuss the beginnings of the Protestant churches in
                    Indiana, and to give some account of their development, with especial emphasis
                    upon any changes that appear as one compares the various stages of the
                    State's history. I have been frequently struck by the omission in
                    general histories of any account of the religious institutions that have
                    developed in the State. Many works there are upon the various churches and
                    denominations and eminent ministers, but this class of literature seems to have
                    kept largely to itself, and there is little correlation, therefore, between the
                    general development of the State and its religious development. Yet a very
                    little study shows that some important facts are to be gathered by such a
                    process.
            The clear distinction between the Roman Catholic church and other churches, and
                    the extraneous influences that have shaped the Catholic church within the State,
                    together with the amount of space that would have to be given to the Roman
                    Catholic church, have led me to confine myself to the Protestant churches in
                    this discussion.
            The first years of our territorial existence, and, in fact, the early years of
                    our statehood, present a clear illustration of the fact that American
                    Christianity centers very largely in organized churches, and that these required
                    for their planting and support considerable resources, both of men and of means.
                    Between 1798 and 1860 Indiana was in many instances a mission field such as one
                    can scarcely match to-day in the 
                        United States
                    , and resembling the Western frontier of a generation ago. Some
                    churches, as for instance the Baptist, Methodist, Presbyterian and Disciple,
                    were indeed fairly well established on an independent'basis long before
                    1860, but we find that the Congregational and Presbyterian American Home
                    Missionary Society had some sixty-three men from the East counted as
                    missionaries, at work in this State as late as 1851. Among the reasons for the
                    relative loss of the Baptist  churches of the
                    State, which were in many places first on the ground, is the fact that so little
                    support was given them from the East. It is scarcely too much to say that
                    Indiana Protestant churches were not a natural development produced by the
                    settlers who came here, so much as they were a planting made by ministers and
                    missionaries from the older sections of the country.
            The first Protestant church known to have been begun in this State, and having
                    any permanence, was the so-called "Silver Creek" Baptist
                    Church, organized by a few settlers along Owens creek and Silver creek, at 
                        Charleston
                    .* The original minutes of this
                    church, preserved in the State Library, bear the name of the organizer, Isaac
                    Edwards, and four others, apparently the only charter members, who banded
                    themselves together on the basis of the Baptist Confession of Faith of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , 1765.
            Other Baptist churches were early begun in the southern and southeastern parts of
                    the State, and the Baptists were sufficiently numerous in 1809 to organize two
                    associations—the 
                        Wabash
                     District Association (
                        Knox
                     and 
                        Gibson counties
                    ), and the 
                        Whitewater
                     Association (
                  Franklin, Fayette
               ,
                    Rush and 
                        Henry counties
                    ).†
            
            The first Methodist congregation was a church organized in the spring of 1803, at
                    Father Robertson's.‡ There were enough
                    Methodists in 1807, after visits of Peter Cartwright and others, to organize the
                    Silver Creek circuit. From this time on the growth of the Methodist church seems
                    to have been comparatively rapid.
            The first Presbyterian organization was due to the missionary work of Thomas
                    Cleland, sent out by the Transylvania Presbytery to the people of 
                        Knox
                     county.§ The "Church of
                    Indiana" was organized by the Rev. Samuel D. Robertson, in 1806, in a
                    barn of Colonel Small, about two miles east of 
                        Vincennes
                    . The church had the support of the Governor, William Henry
                    Harrison, and his wife, who had been a Presbyterian before her marriage. A
                    regular pastor came in 1807. The second Presbyterian church of the State was
                    organized in 1807, the so-called "Palmyra" 
                  
                     ∗ Evans:Pioneer Preachers of Indiana,
                            p. 43; Stott: Indiana Baptist History, p. 37.
                  
                     † Stott: Indiana Baptist History, pp.
                            61 ff.
                  
                     ‡ Stevens: History of Methodism, Vol.
                            IV, pp. 152-153.
                  
                     § Edson: Early Indiana Presbyterianism,
                            pp. 37-42.
               
                     church, near 
                  Charleston, Clark
                        county
               .⋆ This church was
                    afterward merged into the church of 
                        Charleston
                    , which was established in 1812, and which possibly, therefore,
                    should be called the second permanent church. The third Presbyterian church is
                    said to have been constituted in 1814, at or near what is now Washington, in 
                        Daviess
                     county, by the Rev. Samuel Thornton Scott, who was pastor of the
                    earlier church at 
                        Vincennes
                    .† Until 1823 the Indiana churches
                    belonged to presbyteries whose center lay in either 
                        Kentucky
                     or 
                        Ohio
                    ; but in that year part of the State was constituted into the first
                    district Indiana presbytery, that of 
                        Salem
                    . The Synod of Indiana was orgapized in 1826.‡
            
            These early churches represent the religious and denominational devotion of a
                    comparatively few settlers, and the heroism of a few frontier preachers. The
                    feebleness of the churches and the hardships of the ministers can be read in any
                    of the denominational literature, and in the biographies of some of the better
                    known ministers. Incidentally, it should be said that nowhere can one find a
                    fuller or better picture of the conditions of life and the character of society
                    in early Indiana than in this class of books.
            A typical Presbyterian minister was the Rev. John M. Dickey, whose average
                    salary, including money and gifts, for the first sixteen years of his ministry
                    was $80. He "aided the support of his family by farming on a
                    small scale, teaching singing classes, writing deeds, wills and advertisements.
                    He also surveyed land, and sometimes taught school.*
                        * * In some way he secured forty acres of land,
                    to which he subsequently added eighty acres." His house was a small log
                    cabin, like those of his neighbors, "floor of slabs hewed from oak and
                    poplar trees; small windows, greased paper serving instead of glass; the chimney
                    made partly of stone and partly of sticks, and daubed with clay."* * * "He also had
                    a set of shoemaker's tools, mending the shoes of his family and often
                    those of his neighbors." No less heroic were his two wives, both of
                    whom illustrate the hardships of the domestic life of the frontier in those
                    days. His first wife died two years after he began his ministry in Indiana; his
                    second wife 
                  
                     ⋆ Edson: Ibid, p. 45.
                  
                     † Edson: Ibid, p. 64.
                  
                     ‡ Edson: Ibid, pp.
                            259-260.
               
                     often managed the entire labor of the
                    household, making all of the woollen and linen garments of the family, providing
                    hospitality for numberless visitors, and rearing a large family of children
                    (eleven were born).⋆
            
            Of the Methodist circuit riders much has been written that is familiar
                    literature, so little need be said. Riding over seemingly impassable roads and
                    swamps, threatened often and having to defend themselves with their own strong
                    arms against drunken and rowdy trouble-makers, they ministered month in and
                    month out to small congregations, poorly supplied with this world's
                    goods, and at times arose to the exaltation of large revival meetings, in which
                    religious enthusiasm swept like wild-fire over whole communities.
            One of the most striking features of the early religious development of this
                    State is the fact above referred to, that the Baptist churches, although first
                    in the field and recruited also by large numbers of settlers from the South and
                    East, did not retain their leadership, but became in most communities surpassed
                    in numbers by the Methodists, and in many places by the Presbyterians. The
                    reason is probably to be found partly in the absence of effective organization
                    and support from without, such as the Methodists and Presbyterians had, and
                    partly also in the numerous doctrinal and practical differences developing among
                    them, which led in some cases to the secession of a whole congregation from the
                    Baptist fellowship. The organization of any sort of agency not directly
                    sanctioned in the Scriptures was opposed by many influential Baptists, and in
                    some sections the prevalent tone of the denomination was so conservative and
                    clannish that progress was impossible.†
            
            A typical example of the disturbances and the difficulties made by some of the
                    Baptist leaders is illustrated in the career of Daniel Parker, as told by a
                    missionary Baptist of the present-day type.‡ Parker and other
                    Baptists of the "hard-shell" "Two-Seed"
                    variety, were so extremely attached to the idea of predestination that the
                    existence and development of the church was relegated by them entirely to the
                    arbitrary influence of the Holy Spirit.
            
               
                  ⋆ Edson: Ibid, pp. 64-75.
               
                  † See Indiana Quarterly Magazine of
                        History, Vol. IV, No. 3, p. 149.
               
                  ‡ Stott: Indiana Baptist History, pp. 55
                        ff.
            
            
            They not only opposed missionary and most other forms of evangelical effort, but
                    divided congregations and hindered the work of churches already started.
            The Friends came into the Territory shortly after the establishment of the three
                    denominations already spoken of. Numbers of them settled in 
                        Orange
                     and 
                        Washington counties
                    , apparently as early as 1810, and at the instigation of the West
                    Branch of the Quarterly Meeting of the Friends of 
                        Ohio
                    , a meeting was held at 
                        Whitewater
                    , and the Lick Creek Monthly Meeting organized (
                        Wayne
                     county, September 11, 1812).⋆
            
            Congregations of other denominations formed in the State early in the century,
                    and religious life soon began to assume its present variegated form, but the
                    other churches can not be treated here as fully as those given above.
            A peculiar and interesting development, without much influence, however, on the
                    general growth of the country, was the Rappite community, which was located from
                    1815 to 1824 at 
                        New Harmony
                    , and which kept its peculiar ideas and institutions intact, under
                    the leadership of the Rapps. Celibacy, communism and frequent public worship
                    were universally and rigidly enforced. Copies of a little book, or collection of
                    leaflets, are still extant, entitled "Harmonische Lieder,"
                    bearing the imprint of "
                        Harmonie
                    , 1824." It shows in the songs, written apparently by
                    different members of the community, the enthusiasm and religious zeal attributed
                    by them to direct inspiration. These German songs extol, sometimes in not
                    unpoetic measures, the beauty of the Harmony community, the love and passion of
                    Christ, and the beauty of the heavenly virtues. When the community sold its land
                    and possessions and emigrated to 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , its religious institutions disappeared with them†
            
            The Congregational church, though represented within the limits of the State by
                    men of 
                        New England
                     ancestry, both physical and spiritual, and by missionaries of
                    Congregational affiliations, remained till quite late without an organization of
                    its polity in Indiana, and has always been comparatively small. Probably no
                    Eastern missionary organization is entitled to more 
                  
                     ⋆ Evan Hadley: Historical Sketch of
                            Settlement of Friends.
                  
                     † See p. 76 of this number.
               
                     praise for its unselfish interest in the
                    evangelization of the West, of which this region was then the center, than is
                    the 
                        Connecticut
                     Missionary Association. For several years⋆ the General Association of the 
                        Connecticut
                     (Congregational) churches sent missionaries West and managed their
                    work as part of its regular business, but in 1798, at the meeting at
                            
                  Hebron, Tolland county
               , the churches
                    organized a special missionary society, which engaged actively in supporting and
                    promoting "Christian knowledge in the new settlements within the 
                        United States
                    .†, In 1801 it entered into the plan
                    of union with the General Assembly of the Presbyterian churches, then hardly as
                    strong as the 
                        Connecticut
                     association. In 1826 the 
                        Connecticut
                     Missionary Society and the Domestic Missionary Society of 
                        New York
                     were merged into the American Home Missionary Society, a national
                    organization supported by Congregationalists and Presbyterians
                    alike—the Congregationalists making the -largest contributions. This
                    alliance of Congregationalists and Presbyterians was continued by the New School
                    Presbyterians after the schism until 1860. The first representative of the 
                        Connecticut
                     Missionary Society and its allies in Indiana was Nathan B. Darrow,
                    who came to the State in 1816.‡ As illustrations
                    of the work carried on by the later organization, it contributed to the Indiana
                    field, in the year 1830, $3,367, and had eighteen missionaries. In
                    1851 it reported sixty-three missionaries.§
            
            It is a well-known fact that this union resulted in the rapid growth of
                    Presbyterian churches and in the dissemination of 
                        New England
                     ideas, without, however, planting very many 
                        New England
                     churches. Yet it strikes one as rather remarkable that out of this
                    combined effort, into which Congregational churches poured so many men and so
                    much money, there came into existence in Indiana scores of Presbyterian
                    churches, but only two churches which the venerable Dr. Hyde, authority in these
                    matters, could call Congregational, and both of those planted late in the
                    northern part of the State, at 
                        Michigan City
                     and Orland. A 
                  
                     ⋆ 1788-1798, Edson: Early Indiana
                            Presbyterianism, p. 256; Hyde: Congregationalism in Indiana.
                  
                     † Hyde: Congregationalism in Indiana;
                            Edson: Ibid, p. 256.
                  
                     ‡ Hyde: Ibid; Edson:
                                Ibid.
                  
                  
                     § Hyde: Ibid.
                  
               
                     third became Presbyterian, but a small
                    faction, seceding, maintained the Congregational organization.⋆ The reasons for this disparity in visible results are
                    variously stated, but these points seem apparent: The southern Presbyterian
                    element was predominant among the settlers, and the ministers, according to the
                    agreement, organized churches on that basis, the people rather than the
                    missionary determining the matter; the Congregational missionaries also laid
                    more stress on doctrine, over against the Arminian teaching of the Methodists;
                    the Presbyterians emphasized organization, and it seems to have been generally
                    agreed that the Presbyterian organization was best under conditions then
                    prevailing. At the time the Presbyterians seem to have been most distrustful of
                    the union, fearing subtle doctrinal deviations, which, in fact, came. To-day,
                    however, the alliance is lamented by Congregationalists and extolled by the
                    Presbyterians. That it was the religious antecedents of the settlers rather than
                    other considerations that led to the formation of Presbyterian rather than
                    Congregational churches is perhaps indicated by the fact that in the Western (
                        Connecticut
                    ) Reserve, where the settlers were chiefly from 
                        New England
                    , and in 
                        Iowa
                    , where the same was true, the tendency toward the formation of
                    Congregational churches was much stronger.
            The first Congregational church was organized at 
                        Terre Haut
                    ' in 1834 by an independent Congregational minister, Rev,
                    Mr. Jewett, who, on his way to the far West, was prevailed on to stop at that
                    city. The churches at 
                        Michigan City
                     and Orland, referred to above, were organized in 1835 and 1836,
                    respectively. The denominational consciousness of the Indiana Congregationalists
                    began to assert itself, and a national convention was held in 
                        Michigan City
                     in 1846 to consider the state of Congregationalism in the West (the
                    first national convention of the Congregational churches, if it can be called
                    such when only five Western and three Eastern States were represented). Three
                    Presbyterian churches, in 
                        Jay
                     and 
                        Adams counties
                    , and" others in the "Pocket," became
                    permanently Congregational because of their impatience of the lack of
                    anti-slavery measures in their own denomination.⋆
                    A Congregational church, however, was not planted in the capital 
                  
                     ⋆ Hyde: Ibid, p.
                        7.
               
                     until 1857 (August 9), and the State
                    Association was not formed till 1858.⋆
            
            From the time the leading Protestant denominations were firmly established in
                    Indiana, about 1825, down to the eve of the Civil War, about 1860, their history
                    might be summed up as development through denominational competition. The
                    churches for the most part were vigorously evangelistic. They had been planted
                    in the years of the great revivals (1800-1820), and liberal, latitudinarian
                    views gained little ground. The Unitarian movement, for instance, has always
                    remained very small, the membership of its congregations even to-day being
                    considerably less than a thousand. The churches were led by men, simple and
                    earnest, narrow, perhaps, but thoroughly convinced of the necessity of
                    maintaining certain definite views concerning matters which they held as
                    revealed truth. The Owen community at 
                        New Harmony
                    , under anti-Christian auspices, was an exotic plant, and if one can
                    judge by the Owen-
                        Campbell
                     debate at 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1829, produced little permanent effect upon the religious life
                    of Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                    .† Infidelity and skepticism, and
                    liberal views were frequently included in the use of these terms, in the heat of
                    the revival spirit of the time frequently took on an almost religious
                    aggressiveness. There seemed to be little ground between orthodox, militant,
                    evangelical Christianity on one hand, and opposition to religion on the other.
            The conflict with unbelief occasionally assumed violent and even grotesque form.
                    A story is told* of Reverend James Jones, a Methodist preacher,
                    illustrating the spiritual and physical power of some of the champions of the
                    church. In a camp meeting in 1820, or shortly after, in the White Water circuit,
                    a woman who had just been converted was dragged away from the altar and the
                    meeting by her irate husband, who threatened vengeance on any interference. Mr.
                    Jones was called for, and, making no headway with mere words, finally seized the
                    man, forced him to his knees and then flat on his face. The minister seated
                    himself on the back of the sinner, and refused to release him till he 
                  
                     ⋆ Hyde: Ibid.
                  
                  
                     † Richardson: Memoirs of A. Campbell,
                            Vol. II, pp. 263 ff.
                  
                     ‡ Smith: Early Methodism in Indiana,
                            pp. 189-190.
               
                     prayed. The victim swore. But others were
                    called on; the wife prayed, then a number of believers, then "Brother
                    Jones prayed, still sitting on the quivering form of his victim and holding him
                    fast. While he prayed he felt the muscles of the man's arm begin to
                    relax, and other signs that victory was coming.*
                        * * Soon the man himself began to weep and cry
                    out, "‘God be merciful to me, a sinner!"’ and soon the
                    shout of victory came.* * *
                    This was the old style of doing work at camp meetings, and no man was ever
                    better able to do it than Reverend James Jones."
            All conflicts with unbelief were not so short and decisive as this. Atheism and
                    other views of the world opposed to Christianity were in general more aggressive
                    than now, sometimes even blatant. In this, as in other respects, it is easy to
                    see that the separation of the church from the rest of the world was sharper
                    then than now, and considerations of good taste, recognition of sincerity, and
                    toleration had little place.
            But conflicts with the anti-Christian forces of the community were only half the
                    story. Every preacher held himself in readiness to meet other preachers setting
                    forth a different gospel. Denominational controversies raged on every side.
                    Frequent formal challenges and protracted debates fill the columns of papers of
                    the period. For the most part these concerned some phase or other of baptism,
                    the Holy Spirit, the process of conversion, or the ever-recurring conflict of
                    Calvinism and Arminian-ism. Popular interest in such subjects was amazing. One
                    Christian minister answered a Methodist who had preached two days in a barn on
                    baptism with a five-hour discourse in the same barn on the subjects, action and
                    design of baptism. "The barn was a very large one, but it was full, and
                    a great multitude stood in the street before a large open door the whole time,
                    giving the most earnest attention to the discussion."⋆ The same minister gives a full account of a four
                    days' debate near 
                        Madison
                     in 1851 which in essential features was not unlike scores of
                    theological contests held in the middle of the century.†
            
            If theological interests ran high, however, the lot of the theologian was little
                    better than in the early pioneer days. Salaries 
                  
                     ⋆ Life of Elijah Goodwin, p, 184.
                  
                     †
                            Ibid, p. 223.
               
                     were low and frequently not by any means all
                    paid. One distinguished minister and educator gave vent in his reminiscences to
                    this feeling complaint: "There is such a thing as despising the church
                    of God, and that is, when she abounds in close-fisted rich old men and
                        women."⋆
            
            That churches were richer and stronger appears, however, from the introduction of
                    "innovations," many of which were resisted by the older
                    generation. This process continued long after the Civil War, but the bitterest
                    opposition to innovations must be chronicled before that. Such Methodist leaders
                    as Father Havens could not endure "steepled churches, promiscuous
                    sittings, organized choirs, organ accompaniments, theological schools and a
                    classical ministry."⋆ The Christian
                    church, whose early leaders had themselves opposed innovations, was itself soon
                    to be taken up in a tide of prosperity, and to incorporate so many progressive
                    tendencies that a rather large element almost withdrew from fellowship to form
                    an "anti" movement.
            The formation of the early Christian (Disciple) churches in Indiana gives an
                    interesting study to the religious investigator. Apparently there were in the
                    twenties and thirties of the last century many congregations which had felt
                    their way around to somewhat similar positions, rejecting formal creeds as
                    statements of required beliefs, not requiring personal testimony of religious
                    experience as a test of fitness for baptism and admission to the church. Into
                    this group came the influence of the Campbells from 
                        West Virginia
                    , and of others, until a certain coherence and corporate life
                    developed. But as to the date when the movement specifically began in the State,
                    seemingly authoritative statements differ by as much as twelve or fifteen years.
                    The truth seems to be that those churches now affiliated with the Churches of
                    the Disciples represent only a part of the movement, to which the so-called New
                    Light movement and others belonged, for the restoration of primitive, apostolic
                    Christianity. The leadership of Alexander Campbell, exerted through his
                    widely-read periodical, Millennial Harbinger, and through
                    personal visits and acquaintances in the State, together with the influence of a
                    number 
                  
                     ⋆ Autobiography of S. K. Hoshour, p.
                            110.
                  
                     † Life of Father Havens, by Hibben, p.
                            93.
               
                     of very able and zealous advocates of the
                    same cause, gradually brought the larger part of this
                    "restoration" movement into one body, the Christian church; i.
                    e., the Disciples of Christ. The Christian church, i. e., the New Light
                    movement, did not all go this way, and has remained as a separate, though much
                    smaller, body. The Christians (Disciples) speedily became one of the strongest
                    and most aggressive religious forces of the State.
            Among the most important services of the churches to the State before the Civil
                    War was the founding of seminaries (practically equivalent to the modern high
                    schools) and colleges. The seminaries have long since disappeared, either
                    through development into colleges or being supplanted by high schools. The score
                    or more of colleges now existing under religious auspices represent a much
                    larger number founded at one time or another within this period. Some proved
                    short-lived; others had a longer period of activity, but have since been
                        abandoned.⋆ Those which survive have come to
                    embody relatively permanent and substantial interests.
            The period of the Civil War, and, indeed, the years immediately preceding it,
                    mark a transition in the history of the religious forces of the State. Many
                    parts of Indiana contained by that time well-established communities, with
                    considerable wealth and culture. The earlier and rougher elements of pioneer
                    days were passing away. The opposition and contrast between the church and the
                    unchurched had become, if not less intense, at least more refined. Moreover, in
                    many places European immigrants, with other religious ideas and customs, began
                    to form more or less conspicuous elements. Added to this the tremendous unifying
                    effects of the Civil War within the lines of the Union or the opposition camps,
                    as the case might be, made apparently a most marked impression in lessening the
                    rigor of denominational differences. Even such supposedly inconsequential
                    affairs as amateur theatricals given to raise money for the soldiers contributed
                    probably to softening the ecclesiastical censure of worldly amusements. The
                    balance between the improvement and the degradation of moral life in the North
                    brought on by the Civil War 
                  
                     ⋆ For example, the college at 
                                Brookville
                            , an account of which we hope soon to publish.
               
                     probably never can be accurately struck.⋆ It made some, notably Lincoln himself, more
                    deeply religious; it gave others freer course in corruption and immorality. One
                    marked tendency, however, may be summed up in the word liberalizing. This can be
                    easily traced in the subsequent development of churches in Indiana.
            Among the marked features of ecclesiastical life since the war can be noted
                    growth in wealth, in membership and in influence, tendency toward
                    interdenominational cooperation and even unity, and humanizing of theology.
            In some respects primitive conditions still prevail. The rural church has proved
                    more backward than the rural school. Among the latter, especially in the last
                    few years, a veritable revolution seems to be taking place. Consolidation of
                    schools has made possible far better teaching and more effective organization
                    than ever before prevailed. Even where there has been a decline of the rural
                    population, the schools have more than maintained their former work. Rural
                    churches remain, however, practically on the old basis. Consolidation here takes
                    place only by the dying out of weaker congregations, or by the less frequent
                    holding of preaching services, so that communities are served by a kind of
                    rotation between the churches of different denominations. One is astonished by
                    the number of churches whose names are carried on the lists of some
                    denominations from which reports are never received and in some of which no
                    services are ever held. The circuit rider and itinerant preacher, so necessary
                    and useful in the early times, survives under different conditions in a less
                    glorious service and with less effectiveness in the railroad preacher of the
                    present, living in some central location and going to scattered congregations
                    for preaching service on Sunday, and to funerals and weddings on week-days,
                    stirring religious sentiment by periodic protracted meetings, but seldom vitally
                    affecting the life of the community.
            Town and city churches, however, have for the most part been prosperous. The
                    barns and log churches of early days gave place long ago to well-built frame
                    structures, these in turn to brick or stone. The last fifteen years have been an
                    era of church 
                  
                     ⋆ For an interesting discussion see
                            Rhodes: History of the 
                                United States
                            , Vol. V, pp. sis ff.
               
                     building all over the State, and scores, if
                    not hundreds, of fine stone church buildings have been erected. In this the
                    Presbyterian church, which early had the advantage of education and culture, and
                    which was probably more of a city church than the other large denominations,
                    still has the leadership. With less than one-fourth the membership of the
                    Methodist Episcopal church, its buildings and property are valued at more than
                    one-half those of the other denomination, and with a membership only one-half as
                    large as the reported membership of the Disciples, its property is valued at
                    twice that of the Disciples.⋆
            
            The churches of the State have not only grown in membership, but have gained upon
                    the population, according to the best statistics available. By the report of the
                    State Bureau of Statistics in 1906 the church membership was then 35 per cent,
                    of the population of the State. These statistics, however, are somewhat
                    misleading. The population of the State is got from the census, the church
                    membership from the reports of the various churches to their State
                    organizations. Mistakes in the census are likely to be omissions rather than
                    additions. Churches, however, are usually quick to report additions and growth,
                    and many fail to take account of deaths and removals, so that here errors are
                    much more likely to swell than to reduce church membership. Making all
                    reasonable allowance, however, it is safe to say that church members have never
                    formed so large a proportion of the population of the State as at present. The
                    first seven Protestant denominations of the State, in order of membership, as
                    given in the report of the Indiana Bureau of Statistics for 1906, are the
                    Methodist Episcopal, Disciples, Baptist, Presbyterian, United Brethren, Lutheran
                    and Friends.
            Practically all denominations have undergone a transformation in their popular
                    theology. This transformation has in many instances led to overleaping- the old
                    denominational boundaries, and even the boundaries of orthodox Christianity.
                    Indiana has not to any large degree led in such movements, but, having been
                    started elsewhere, they have had at least their average quota of followers in
                    this State. The change as a whole might be 
                  
                     ⋆ Indiana Church Statistics, Indiana
                            Bureau of Statistics, 1906.
               
                     summed up as a change in the conception of
                    God and of religion due to the change the last hundred years have made in the
                    environment of American life. The hardships, struggles, poverty and dangers of
                    pioneer life have given place to a prosperous, even-going society, in which
                    physical dangers are few and man's control over nature for the most
                    part assured. Accumulation of wealth has produced here and there a leisure
                    class. For the most part this consists as yet of the wives and daughters of rich
                    men. These have different needs and different feelings from the pioneer women
                    who bore the brunt of the struggle of early days. They seek a different help and
                    comfort in their religion. Dr. J. Franklin Jameson states succinctly the change
                    that has come to pass in the country as a whole. "It is a long remove
                    from the tribal god of the early Puritans, the vertebrate Jehovah, the
                    self-conscious martinet of a troubled universe, to the vague and circumambient
                    deity of Mrs. Eddy, the fluid source of therapeutic beneficence. But it marks a
                    long transition in our social life. The early colonist, his life environed with
                    dangers and studded with marked events, must have on high a conscious and
                    watchful sovereign, ever ready to protect the body and to chasten the soul by
                    drastic interpositions.* *
                    * Few of us are in personal danger. We have had years of
                    extraordinary prosperity. The comfortable middle-class society of our settled
                    communities has had little occasion to feel the heart-gripping stresses of
                    danger and calamity and remorse. In such a soft society, illness and physical
                    pain easily come to seem the chief evils of life. Consciousness of nerves and
                    consciousness of the processes of digestion come to take nearly the place which
                    consciousness of sin held in the mind of the seventeenth-century American. Such
                    a society, the product of peace and industrial prosperity, is sure to be seized
                    with great power by a religion which cheerfully ignores evil and which, whatever
                    its claims upon superior intellects, presents itself to the man of bourgeois
                    mind as primarily a religion of healing."⋆
            
            But the formation of Christian Science churches, the growth of the New Thought
                    movement, and the appearance of psycho-therapy, ⋆
                    President's address at the American Historical Association meeting,
                    December 27, 1907, in American Historical Review, Vol. XIII,
                    No. 2, p. 301.  are not the only religious
                    results of our social changes. It takes only a slight comparison to show the
                    liberalizing tendency of theological thought in general in the last generation.
                    Pragmatic philosophy, with its emphasis upon practical values, its optimistic
                    working together of all things for good, is paralleled by the emphasis upon
                    practical, humanitarian results in Christian preaching. The shaping of the
                    personal life along lines of useful activities is the burden of the message of
                    most churches to-day. Religion has much less of
                    "otherworldliness" than former generations would have dared to
                    suppose compatible with its profession. This world has become not only an easier
                    place to live in, but an easier place to dwell on in the realm of religious
                    thought.
         
         
         
            COUNTY APPROPRIATIONS FOR HISTORICAL SOCIETIES.
            [The following law is printed partly in answer to inquiries and partly because
                    there does not seem to be much cognizance taken of it by those who ought to take
                    advantage of it. 
                  St. Joseph, Henry, Wayne
                and 
                        Monroe
                     counties are the only 'ones known to the editor in which
                    historical societies receive any substantial help from the county. Yet a
                    properly managed historical society ought to be of great value to any community,
                    and under the liberal law quoted below, can be easily maintained in almost any
                    county in the State.—EDITOR.]
            An Act for the encouragement of county historical societies, and providing for
                    estimates for same by Boards of County Commissioners, and for the making of
                    appropriations for same out of the county funds by County Councils, and for the
                    expenditures of moneys for the benefit of such societies.
            (H. 379. Approved March 11, 1901.)
            SECTION I. Be it enacted by the 'General Assembly of
                    the State of Indiana, That in any county of the State of Indiana where there now
                    is or may hereafter be a historical society, or local branch of a historical
                    society, which, at the time of making petition, shall have maintained its
                    organization and have been actively engaged in the collection of data and
                    material for, and in the preservation of, county and State history and biography
                    for a period of not less than five consecutive years, during which it shall have
                    held at least one meeting in each year, at which papers shall have been read or
                    addresses made, in the presence of the public, upon matters connected with the
                    history of the county and State, the County Council of such county may, upon the
                    petition of the president and secretary of such historical society and not less
                    than fifty voters and taxpayers of the county, having been presented to the
                    County Commissioners, at a regular session of the board, and by the
                    Commissioners referred to the County Council at a regular or called session
                    thereof, with estimates and recommendations as to amounts of such appropriation,
                    or appropriations, as provided for in section nineteen (19) of an  act entitled an act concerning county business,
                    approved March 3, 1899, appropriate out of any moneys in the county treasury,
                    not otherwise appropriated, a sum or sums of money not to exceed in the
                    aggregate five thousand dollars ($5,000) for the construction and
                    furnishing of rooms and fireproof vaults for the meetings of such historical
                    society and for the preservation of the records of such society and historical
                    papers, souvenirs and natural history collections. Such sum of five thousand
                    dollars or less to be appropriated at one time or at various sessions of the
                    County Council; such rooms and vaults to be provided in connection with county
                    court-houses or constructed separately upon land belonging to the county and to
                    be the property of the county. Such rooms and vaults to be built and maintained
                    for the purposes enumerated in this act by the County Commissioners and under
                    their supervision, as provided in section thirty-one (31) of an act entitled an
                    act concerning county business, approved March 3, 1899.
            SEC. 2. Should the historical society for which and upon whose
                    petition such rooms and vaults' shall have been provided by the county,
                    as prescribed in this act, fail or voluntarily surrender to the county its
                    rights and privileges thereto, or discontinue its meetings for a period of two
                    consecutive years, all its papers, records, collections of every kind and
                    furniture shall become the property of the county, and the County Commissioners
                    shall provide for the safe-keeping of the same before subjecting the rooms or
                    vaults to other uses of or by the county; but this provision shall not be so
                    construed as to prevent persons who shall have contributed papers or
                    historical' or biographical data from making copies thereof for their
                    own private use and profit.
            SEC. 3. Should there at any time be more than one reputable
                    historical society or society devoted to some branch of historical or biological
                    investigations in any county in which such rooms and vaults or permanent
                    buildings as are provided for in this act shall have been built, it may be
                    admitted to their use upon such conditions, to be determined by the County
                    Commissioners, as shall not interfere with the rights and privileges of the
                    original society; but appropriations of money shall be made only for one  set of rooms and vaults or separate
                    buildings for such purposes in the county.
            SEC. 4. Such rooms, or buildings and vaults, as may be
                    constructed in any county of the State of Indiana, under the provisions of this
                    act, shall be under the joint control of the historical society for the uses of
                    which they shall be constructed, and its legitimate successors, and the Board of
                    County Commissioners under such rules as they may, by their concurrent action,
                    establish; but such historical society or societies shall alone be responsible
                    for all bills for printing, publication, stationery, records and other expenses
                    of every kind incurred in the prosecution of its or their work, except such
                    costs for the construction and maintenance of the rooms or buildings and vaults
                    as are heretofore provided for in this act.
            SEC. 5. Upon or after the forfeiture or voluntary surrender of
                    the occupancy of the rooms or buildings and vaults to the county by the
                    historical society for which they were constructed, the County Commissioners may
                    place them in charge of another society organized for similar purposes as the
                    original society, if such society exist in the county, or shall be organized to
                    the satisfaction of the board; but preference shall be given to a resumption of
                    the old society, or a reorganization thereof, and any society- that shall accept
                    the use and care of the property and occupancy of the rooms or buildings and
                    vaults shall be accountable to the county for the same, and they shall continue
                    to be the property of the county as in the first case. The purposes of this act
                    being to create and perpetuate a system for the collection and preservation of
                    local and general history, making a record of the progress of the several
                    counties of the State, and providing permanent nuclei for individual and family
                    history and local observation of natural phenomena.
         
         
         
            
               
                        LAKE COUNTY
                     CENTENARIANS.
            
               BY P. W. BALL,
            
               Historical Secretary of the Old Settler and Historical Association
                        of 
                            Lake County
                        
               .
            AMONG our early settlers, our true pioneers, there were two who lived more than
                    one hundred years. One of these was Peter Surprise, born of French parentage in
                    a province of 
                        Lower Canada
                    , February 24, 1794. In 1834 or 1835 (this date is not quite
                    certain), following a party of French neighbors who settled near the present
                    Momence, in 
                        Illinois
                    , he made his settlement in what became 
                        Lake county
                    . He was naturalized August 10, 1837, by Solon Robinson, then county
                    clerk, and died in this county August 27, 1903, having lived 109 years and six
                    months, or having lived through nearly seven years of the eighteenth, through
                    all of the wonderful nineteenth century, and through two full years of the
                    twentieth century. He had in all fourteen children, three born in 
                        Canada
                    . Seven of these were living at the time of their father's
                    death. There were also living twenty-two grandchildren and forty
                    great-grandchildren.
            Our other centenarian was Mrs. Valona Cutler, a daughter of Richard Church, who
                    came to what became known as 
                        Prairie
                     West in 1836, having a family of six sons and four daughters. Mrs.
                    Cutler was born in 1805, the day and month not on our record. She was the mother
                    of six children. About 1855 the Cutler family left 
                        Lake county
                    . They became citizens of 
                        Illinois
                    , where, in February, 1906, Mrs. Cutler died, having lived more than
                    one hundred years. Although not residing many years in the county, she was for a
                    time an active, prominent and influential 
                        Lake county
                     pioneer, and so we claim her as one of our centenarians.
         
         
         
            A RAPPITE, HARMONY, SONG-BOOK.
            IT has not until recently been generally known that the Rappites had a printing
                    press at 
                        Harmony
                    , Indiana, during their stay there, from 1815 to 1825. However, Mr.
                    D. L. Passavant, who is the leading authority on the subject, has discovered a
                    copy or two of a pamphlet which, with two volumes with the 
                        Harmonie
                     imprint at 
                        New Harmony
                    , seem to show that quite a little printing was done there. The copy
                    which has been received for the Indiana State Library is coarsely printed and
                    roughly bound in blank check forms of the Bank of the 
                        United States
                     at 
                        Pittsburg
                    , where apparently the Rapps did most of their banking. The copy
                    belonged to Gertrude Rapp, and her name is written on the title page. Its full
                    title and imprint reads:
            Eine kleine Sammlung Harmonischer Lieder als die
                    erste Probe der anfangenden Druckerei anzusehen. Gedruckt in 
                        Harmonie
                    , Indiana, 1824.
            The book is, however, merely a collection of separates, the first group of songs
                    being printed April 27, 1824, and the others following usually one a week.
                    According to Mr. Arthur Dransfield, librarian of the Workingmen's
                    Institute Public Library at 
                        New Harmony
                    , Dr. Mueller, of the Rappite community, operated the press, and was
                    a man of some literary ability. According to Mr. Passavant's
                    information, the poetry was probably the production of different members of the
                    community, considered by them as inspired, and used in the religious services of
                    the community, but jealously guarded from outsiders.
            The first three stanzas of the first poem in the collection, the  first fruit of the printing press, and possibly of
                    the poetic of the Rappite brotherhood, may not be out of place here: 
                        1. O Harmonie, steh mit den fuessen, Fein feste auf dem dunkeln mond!
                            weil du wass bessres sollt geniessen, ja, Gott selbst bei und-in dir
                            wohnt; dir oeffnet sich des Himmels pforte, das Cabinet der Heiligkeit;
                            und so komt nach des.Herren worten, die Ewigkeit in diese zeit.
                        2. Du siehest mit den alten Zeugen, das Werk des Herrn in aller Treu;
                            Jerusalem vom himel steigen, und wie er alles mache neu; die Braut des
                            lams zum grossen prangen, den edlen schmuck, in 
                                Gottes
                             stadt, und was er mit dir angefangen, beschlossen hat in
                            seinem Rath.
                        3. Er hat schon laengst voraus gesehen, ein wunderschoenes Perlen volk,
                            die vor Ihm um den throne stehen, und wohnen unter seiner Wolk! ein volk
                            das von ihm ist geknuefet, in ein hoch herrlich Gnadenband, und das
                            darum vor Freuden huepfet, ist es der Welt gleich unbekant.
                    
            
         
         
         
            DETROIT LETTER OF 1785.
            [The manuscript of the following document is in the Lasselle Collection of the
                    Indiana State Library. As can easily be seen, it is a letter from John
                    MacPherson, of 
                        Detroit
                    , to a friend, David Gray, a trader at Miami-town (a forerunner of
                    Ft. Wayne). The country in that part of the Northwest was still in possession of
                    the English, the treaty of peace between the 
                        United States
                     and the English government in 1783 not being carried out in respect
                    to the evacuation of the ports in the Northwest by the English till after the
                    Jay treaty of 1795.-EDITOR.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        To David Gray, Merchant, at Miamie-town.
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Detroit
                                 
                              
                           
                                    23 March, 1785.
                                
                        Dear Sir:
                        I embrace this opportunity to enquire about your Health, and the
                                    nature of times in that Country, what appearance of Trade. its
                                    said that there is a good hunt to the Southward I hope you will
                                    find the good effects of it, by its being in reality so., we
                                    have had Here a very milcl open winter, by no means reckoned
                                    favorable for the hunt. Indeed the equipers has reasons to
                                    expect but very Indifferent returns from the differant posts
                                    here abouts, very dull times in the fort, no business of any
                                    kind, either with the French or Indians, the only payment that
                                    can be expected for Goods is flour & corn this year, and
                                    I see no prospect of being able to dispose of it. the
                                    Contractors for the Mackina markett gets what corn &
                                    flour they want for Goods out of their own Shops, so that
                                    there's Scarcely any paper currency circulating. Mr.
                                    McKillep told me that you was a little indisposed when he past
                                    the Miamies coming in. I hope you soon got over it; the Measles
                                    raged here this season by which many Children died. L. Williams
                                    died with that or a Sort of Scarlet fever after Seven days
                                    Illness Andrew W.- Old Barthe has taken his departure 14th
                                    Instant after about two months Sickness. You have heard
                                    undoubtedly of the Barbarous manner Christie & another
                                    Man was murdered at the River Rouge at young Ca-hossa's
                                    House by a Sagina Indian apitchi Gabavey his name &  2 Sons, in about a week
                                    after the same Indians killed P. Jacobs & one Guthrie -
                                    Jno. Dolton was going out with them & made his escape.
                                    Jacobs killed one of the sons in the fray, there's
                                    several councills been held since with the other Indians to get
                                    them to bring the Murderers, they promisé well but
                                    perform little, apropos what do you think of the Conjunction of
                                    the Six Come [Company?] Houses into a grand
                                    Societie for carrying on the Indian Trade, time will discover
                                    more of the effects of that grand undertaking, its probable that
                                    they will not find their advantage in such an Union unless they
                                    can procure an exclusive right to the different posts. Whatever
                                    occurances of the plan I write about it will be quite Stale to
                                    you, as you'll be better acquainted with them than
                                    myself. Mr. Geo. Meldrum is married to Miss Chapoton, Henry Ford
                                    to Miss Bella Andrews. there's 2 or 3 other young
                                    ladies closely besieged so that a Short time will bring a
                                    surrender. Robert MeDougall is married to Miss Simonette Campau.
                                    The Gentlemen of the Garison keeps on good Sociall terms with
                                    the towns people & Major Ancrum seems to gain peoples
                                    esteem greatly his justness & Impartiality. no news of
                                    any kind, no accounts from Niagara or Fort Pitt, in course no
                                    express from 
                                        Canada
                                    . Now permitt me to request the favour of you to
                                    lett me know what Mr. Rivard, La Breche, etc are doing, do my
                                    dear Sir endeavour to get Something from those fellows
                                    recommended to your care, as it will be very hard times with me
                                    next Summer. I have wrote you formerly about the way Mr. Ellice
                                    [?] got Grevarats & Visgars affairs settled, they are
                                    Sett up again and trades in partnership at 
                                        Sagina
                                    . they are furnished with goods from Mr. Abbott
                                    & Grosbeck so that you will be able to come on for your
                                    money sometime or other. having nothing further to add - I
                                    remain - Dear Sir
                        
                                    Your Most Obedient Servant
                                    JOHN MAC PHERSON
                           
                                
                        Prices Current flour per C. 60 Ind. Corne per Bushel 12
                                    Oats per Bushel 8 Venison per Car. 32 all Winter Beef per lb.
                                    ⅛ very Scarce.
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            EDITORIAL.
            AN ACTIVE COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY.
            The twenty-second annual meeting of the 
                        Henry County
                     Historical Society, of which an account is given elsewhere, was
                    held the last of April. This meeting sustained the reputation of the society as
                    one of the most active and progressive historical organizations of the State. If
                    any comment other than eulogistic were to be made upon the work of the society,
                    it would be by way of warning that its membership ought to be extended more
                    largely among the younger element of the county. Historical societies frequently
                    grow out of old settlers' organizations, but they should not be turned
                    into old settlers' reunions, nor should interest center chiefly in
                    matters of antiquarian concern. The value of history is the light it throws upon
                    institutional development and racial progress or degeneration. These can not be
                    studied by way of reminiscence and antiquities alone, but demand observation and
                    analysis by men whose powers are developing, whose prime lies in the future
                    rather than in the past. Any community makes a mistake when it conceives of the
                    study of its institutions as a matter to be left to those who have retired from
                    active life and have leisure for things of little importance. Of course, there
                    is no money for any individual in the study of local history, but the progress
                    of a community involves many things of this sort. The point is not that the
                    older men should not be honored members of historical societies, but that the
                    younger men, especially those interested in teaching and in public welfare,
                    should take an active part in supporting such organizations.
            The 
                        Henry County
                     Historical Society is a good example of what can be accomplished
                    under the present State law. The Jaw providing for appropriations by counties
                    for historical societies is  printed in full
                    in this number. Under its provisions it is possible for even a few men
                    interested in local history, continuing that interest for a period of only five
                    years, in which time it will naturally enlarge, to receive permanent quarters
                    for meetings and for the preservation and exhibition of books and other objects
                    of historical interest. At 
                        Newcastle
                     a fine old residence has been bought and a valuable collection of
                    books and relics brought together. The collection is especially complete in the
                    field of pioneer tools and implements. With a little more search and careful
                    repair of machinery now on hand, which ought to be done at once, the society
                    would have a very adequate apparatus for illustrating pioneer industry, from the
                    raising of flax and hemp to the production of cloth. A fine specimen of early
                    looms belonging to the society, formerly belonging to William Dawson, of 
                        Spiceland
                    , would in itself make a good nucleus for such a collection.
            We commend the success of the 
                        Henry County
                     Historical Society in its collection and in its annual meetings,
                    largely attended and interesting as they are, as an object-lesson to all who are
                    interested in Indiana history.
         
         
            NOTES.
            MISSISSIPPI VALLEY HISTORICAL ASSOCIATION.
            The second annual meeting of the Mississippi Valley
                    Historical Association was held in 
                        St. Louis
                    , June 17-19 of this year. The program, as announced, was taken up
                    by addresses and papers on a great variety of themes, including the Ethnology of
                    the Mississippi Valley, Physiography and History,
                    Archaeology of the Mississippi Valley, "The Second 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise," Coronado, the British Attack on 
                        St. Louis
                     in 1780. One afternoon was given over to a conference of historical
                    societies.
            
            HISTORY SECTION OF THE INDIANA STATE TEACHERS'
                    ASSOCIATION.
            The 1909 meeting of the History Section of the Indiana State Teachers'
                    Association was held April 30 and May 1, at the 
                        Clay
                    -pool Hotel in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The change of time from the Christmas vacation during the State
                    Teachers' Association meetings to the separate date in the spring
                    proved agreeable to all who attended the meeting, and, so far as could be
                    ascertained, few who were interested were prevented from being present by the
                    change. The program consisted for the most part in discussion of methods of
                    teaching history and the arrangement of the history course in grade and high
                    schools. Some criticism of the scheme of the history course now used in the
                    State was heard, but no change proposed proved at all satisfactory to those
                    speaking. All seemed agreed in the feeling that a four-year course ought to be
                    provided in the high schools, but this was shown to be impossible in most cases.
                    The most interesting part of the program to others than teachers was the address
                    of Mr. Addison C. Harris on "The Foreign Service of the 
                        United States
                    ," and the paper of Mr. John H. Holliday on "
                        Indianapolis
                     in the Civil War," both given on Friday evening.
            The following officers were elected for the ensuing year: Harlow Lindley,
                    Richmond, president; J. Walter Dunn, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , vice-president; Miss Herriott Palmer, Franklin, C. W. Knouff,
                    Richmond, and Oscar H. Williams,- 
                        Bloomington
                    , executive committee.
            HENRY COUNTY HISTORICAL SOCIETY MEETING.
            This society held its twenty-second annual meeting at the Historical Building in 
                        Newcastle
                    , on South Fourteenth street, Thursday, April 29. The attendance was
                    large and the program carried out with only a few changes from the printed
                    announcements. Two papers presented at the meeting and an editorial comment on
                    the meeting are printed in this number of the magazine:
            The election of officers resulted in the following selections for the coming
                    year: President, Adolph Rogers; vice-presidents, Elias Ratcliff, Rev. Fred
                    Thornburg and Mrs. Ross Pickering; secretary, John Thornburg; financial
                    secretary, Loring Williams.
            
            The trustees for the next year are E. H. Bundy, 13. F. Koons and H. W. Charle90
            HISTORICAL PAGEANTS.
            Miss Charity Dye, of the Shortridge High School faculty, has given much time this
                    year to working up historical pageants written and given by members of her
                    English classes. While primarily intended as exercises in English, it is obvious
                    that they involve much work in history, so much so that the head of the
                    department of history in the same school testifies that some of the best work in
                    history during the year was accomplished by students in tasks involved in the
                    preparation of these pageants.
            The culmination of the work was the presentation by the students of a public
                    Indiana Pageant depicting "Community Life at 
                        New Harmony
                    ," given at Caleb Mills Hall, Thursday afternoon, May 20.
                    The program included stereopticon views of 
                        New Harmony
                     and its people, scenes from the Rappite community, and the
                    representation of an Owenite men's meeting, the 
                        New Harmony
                     Woman's Club (the first woman's club in 
                        America
                    , founded in 1859), and a social evening at the 
                        New Harmony
                     Club-House. A large and intensely interested audience attended the
                    pageant. Miss Dye's pioneer work has proved very successful from every
                    point of view, and her example ought to be followed throughout the State. This
                    sort of work, while it may easily be overdone and absorb too much of the
                    students' time, embodies elements which can scarcely be developed by
                    other methods, and which, judiciously guided, have proved most effective in the
                    literary and historical training of students.
         
         
            REVIEWS OF BOOKS.
            TIPPECANOE BATTLEFIELD MONUMENT. [Compiled by Alva O. Reser, published by the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Battlefield Monument Commission, 1909.]
            Through the efforts of many prominent citizens, and with the help of
                    appropriations from the State of Indiana, an appropriate  monument has at last been erected upon the
                    battlefield of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . The commission in charge of the work has published, under the
                    above title, "a history of the association formed to promote the
                    enterprise," an account of the dedication of the monument, addresses
                    delivered upon that occasion, and a great deal of interesting material upon the
                    battle itself.
         
         
            FATHER GIBAULT AND THE SUBMISSION OP POST VINCENNES.
            The American Historical Review for April, 1909, Vol. XIV, No.
                    3, contains an article by Clarence W. Alvord, of the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , on "Father Pierre Gibault and the Submission of Post 
                        Vincennes
                    , 1778." The article contains several documents not
                    heretofore printed, the following being printed here in full: George Rogers
                    Clark to Jean Baptiste Laffont, July 14, 1778; the Oath of 
                        Vincennes
                    , July 20, 1778; Laffont to Clark, August 7, 1778; Father Pierre
                    Gibault to the Bishop of Quebec, April 1, 1783, and the same to the same, June
                    6, 1786, and also May 22, 1788. The conclusions of Professor Alvord are, in the
                    mind of the writer, sustained by the documents. They are summed up in the
                    statement, p. 548: "The plan originated in Clark's mind;
                    Father Gibault offered to go, but refused to take the responsibility; Jean
                    Baptiste Laffont was appointed as the leader, managed affairs openly in 
                        Vincennes
                    , and claimed the honor of the success; Father Gibault evidently
                    preached peace and union to the citizens, probably used his personal influence
                    to promote the enterprise, and on his return made a written report to Clark, but
                    denied that he was responsible for the submission of 
                        Vincennes
                    ."
            C. B. COLEMAN.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
