
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 29, Issue 2, pages 81-169. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:29+issue:2+year:1933&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            
               
                        Vincennes
                     and the Old Northwest
            By GOVERNOR PAUL V. MCNUTT
            
            In the closing pages of Plato's Republic, there is found the story of
                    the prophet of Lachaesis, who addressed the souls of men who were coming back from the other world
                    to take up once more human form: "Let him who draws the first lot have the first choice,
                    and the life he chooses shall be his destiny." The life which was chosen on this spot; the
                    life which was chosen in the Legislative Hall one hundred yards from where we sit; the life which
                    was chosen at Fort Sackville, became the destiny of the 
                        United States
                     of America.1
            
            I wonder if those of us, who are close to this pioneer life in Indiana, realize what a great region
                    we have here. It is not merely that we have preserved these places, it is that the spirit which was
                    born in them has persisted through the years. It is a splendid thing that we have the tangible
                    reminders of the fact that history was made here and that policies were adopted, and faiths
                    announced, which have been kept through the years.
            I have never been able to understand why those who have undertaken the task of writing the history of
                    the 
                        United States
                     have not laid greater stress upon the important events which happened in this
                    community. And while this is speaking a bit out of turn, as a member of the State Board of
                    Education, I think it might be in order for the Board to suggest that those who offer their
                    histories for use in the public schools of Indiana pay some attention to the real history which was
                    made here.
            From all walks of life, the eyes of the nation must be turned 
                  
                     1 This address of Governor McNutt was delivered in 
                                Harrison
                             Park, 
                                Vincennes
                            , on Friday, Mar 26, 1953. The occasion was the historic site recital which was
                            under the direction of Ross Lockridge of 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana. A regional, historic field day was planned which drew teachers,
                            students and historians from a wide area.
               
                     upon this spot. We have seen this afternoon an example of one of
                    the developments in the course of training for citizenship, in the form of this splendid unit from
                    the Reserve Officers' Training Corps at Indiana University.2 You
                    perhaps merely look upon uniformed men. Do you realize that you see in them a symbol of the duty
                    which rests upon every able-bodied man, namely, the defense of the nation in any hour of need? They
                    likewise take you back from the modern exemplification of duty to the earlier exemplification of
                    duty in George Rogers 
                        Clark
                     and his intrepid band. They made history. The attack they carried out here, the capture
                    of Fort Sackville, comes down in the annals of our nation. It was a brilliant campaign under a
                    daring and resourceful leader.
            Many other places in this part of the country laid claim to the national memorial to 
                        Clark
                    . But, here he accomplished a most brilliant feat; here he made his most important
                    contributions to the future welfare of the nation. No man knows what the development of the 
                        United States
                     might have been were it not for the fact that 
                        Clark
                     and his men brought about the surrender of Fort Sackville. It is appropriate that the
                    nation itself recognize this in placing here at 
                        Vincennes
                     this beautiful national memorial.
            May I remind you, that in the building across the street (Legislative Hall),3
                    actions were taken, more far-reaching, more important than have been taken in any building in this
                    whole nation, except in the Capitol Building in 
                        Washington
                    . More land was controlled through that office, more important policies were adopted by
                    that Legislature of thirteen members, which met in the upper room of that building, than in any
                    other state or territorial capital. The thought came to me this afternoon as I walked through that
                    upper room that it might be well to have a legislature of thirteen once more. It is always easier to
                    settle matters in one room through close personal contact with those who are charged with the
                    responsibilities of government.
            I wish at this time to point out a very important thing, which has to do with this community and to
                    offer a suggestion. The region between the 
                        Ohio
                     and the Great Lakes, part of the 
                  
                     2 The Indiana University Band and the Pershing Rifle drill squad
                            participated in the field day exercises.
                  
                     3 The building in which the territorial legislature met still stands.
                            It was this old structure which the Governor mentioned and to which he directed the
                            attention of his auditors at several points in his speech.
               
                     Province of Quebec before the Revolution, was ceded to the 
                        United States
                     in the Treaty of Peace negotiated at 
                        Paris
                     on behalf of the 
                        United States
                     by Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    , John 
                        Adams
                    , and John 
                        Jay
                    . That treaty was signed on September 3, 1783. I think that it would be a fitting thing
                    for us to center the eyes of the nation upon 
                        Vincennes
                    , upon this memorial, upon this Legislative Hall, on the one hundred and fiftieth
                    anniversary of that signing on the third day of September of this year. I shall be more than glad to
                    use the powers of my office to invite the attention of the rest of the nation to the importance and
                    significance of such a celebration and I feel confident that you who are present here will be
                    willing to join me.
            I want to call your attention to the unique significance in the history of the 
                        United States
                     of the territory ceded to the 
                        United States
                     by Great Britain in 1783, the Old Northwest. Do you realize that this was the first
                    acquisition of territory made by the 
                        United States
                     as a nation? That it was more important than the 
                        Louisiana
                     Purchase, more important than 
                        Florida
                     or 
                        Texas
                    —more important than the 
                        Oregon
                     country or the far Southwest. It was the heart of the continent then, it is the heart
                    of the continent now—the center of our population, the place where true Americanism and
                    the pioneer spirit reign supreme. Without this territory, the 
                        United States
                     might have remained a small seaboard nation.
            The second thing that I wish to call to your attention at this time is this: At that time the
                    territory was claimed by 
                        Virginia
                    , by 
                  Massachusetts, Connecticut
                and other eastern seaboard states.
                    Those states generously surrendered their claims and made this territory a common possession,
                    belonging to all. It was almost the only common possession of the whole people of the 
                        United States
                    , and it was a bond which held the states together when the very existence of a federal
                    government was seriously threatened.
            There is a third thing to which I wish to invite your attention: It is that the organization by the 
                        United States
                     of these territories was an important step between national domain and statehood. It is
                    not generally understood today how important that step was in the development of the nation, This
                    territory might have been treated as government property to be held as a colony for the benefit of
                    the original states  of the 
                        Union
                    . On the other hand, the expansion of the 
                        United States
                     might have taken place through the extension of some or all of the original states. It
                    was through conflict of opinion and of interests, it was through serious thought and gradual
                    development, that the idea of a temporary territory controlled by the federal government was
                    adopted. The American "territory" which thus came into being differed from the
                    British colony chiefly in the fact that it was temporary and not permanent. The way was provided for
                    statehood, for complete equality in due time with the original charter members of the 
                        Union
                    .
            The Ordinance of 1787 has long been regarded in American history as second in importance only to the
                    Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    . Emphasis has long been placed on the general principles of religious freedom, public
                    education and prohibition of slavery incorporated in that document. But in reality, the
                    establishment of these principles and their realization were effected not so much by the Ordinance
                    of 1787 as by the development which took place in the territories themselves. It is not of so much
                    importance that these principles were written into the document; it is of importance that they were
                    carried out by the people who came to the Northwest Territory.
            The provisions for the governmental organization of the territory and the subsequent creation of the
                    resulting states, to be taken into the 
                        United States
                     on the same basis as the original states, was the most important thing that came out of
                    that entire development. For it was in the Northwest and Indiana Territories that the principles
                    governing the expansion of the 
                        United States
                     were worked out under Arthur St. Clair and William Henry Harrison, the most important
                    of all our territorial governors. They were more than governors. They were empire builders.
            The laws established for the Northwest Territory, and the laws enacted by the territorial legislature
                    that sat in that building (Legislative Hall) and the procedure our government adopted then, were of
                    prime importance and served as precedents for all subsequent times.
            May I also invite your attention to a fourth thing? That the pioneers of this great 
                        Ohio
                     valley, that the pioneers of the Northwest and Indiana Territories, really developed
                    American democracy. Conditions were similar throughout the region  between the Alleghanies and the 
                        Mississippi
                    , and they were different from those prevailing anywhere else. The privations with which
                    our forefathers contended, the ever present malaria, the difficulty of travel by the wilderness
                    trails, the log cabins which spotted this part of the country, the clearing and cultivating of farms
                    by the hardest of toil, all marked the life of our pioneers. In that pioneer life of the Old
                    Northwest they developed social and political equality, pride of citizenship, and the
                    resourcefulness which have made this nation what it is.
            I want to pay tribute to the foresight of those men who made the first Constitution of the State of
                    Indiana—men who had the courage to provide for a system of public education, wherein
                    tuition should be gratis, from the primary school up to and including the university. They planned
                    with a vision of equality of opportunity for all of the children. I add this one thing today, my
                    fellow citizens; despite the crisis which is upon us; despite this great shadow of economic
                    depression under which we have been living, it is still one of the primary duties of an enlightened
                    government to give adequate support to public education. If you expect anything to come from the
                    future years, you must provide education for the children. They grow up in times of depression as
                    well as in times of prosperity. Roads and buildings can wait, but not these
                    children—don't forget that.
            The last thing to which I wish to call your attention is this: It was this region that decided the
                    question of slavery and the outcome of the Civil War. The five states of the Old Northwest threw
                    their great weight into the scale on the side of freedom and national unity, and both were won. From
                    this region came President Lincoln and General Grant, the two greatest figures of the War. These
                    States have led also in the rebuilding of the nation and since the fourth day of March, 1861, this
                    region has given to the nation eight of the fourteen men elected to the presidency of the 
                        United States
                    .
            This land between the 
                        Ohio
                     and the Great Lakes, won for the 
                        United States
                     in the War of the Revolution and in the Treaty of Peace which terminated it, and these
                    memorials of our historic past, well merit, this year, an especial measure of our respect and
                    reverence. They have for us an inspiring significance. Here in the heart of the nation, in our
                    beloved State of Indiana, cannot we in the presence of these tangible  symbols take on some of the spirit of the pioneer, recognizing the
                    power which is in us to overcome any crisis, however great, and keep the faith, not only the faith
                    of our forefathers, but the faith which our children have in us.
         
         
         
            The Lyceum in the Early West
            By LESLIE H. MEEKS
            
            "Remember that Bayard Taylor will lecture tomorrow night at the city school house and that
                    Horace Greely will lecture at the same place Saturday night."1 In these
                    words, quoted from a Middle Western newspaper of more than seventy years ago, there comes to us
                    faintly an echo of a then vigorous educational vogue, the old lyceum. The story of that enterprise,
                    distant ancestor of our immense university extension activities, has many a thrill for the
                    antiquarian, be his chief interest historical, literary, or educational. It is the purpose of this
                    essay to reopen a few of the more piquant pages in the history of the lyceum, particularly as it
                    touched the early Middle West, and to enliven the story with some hitherto unpublished letters of
                    Emerson, Holmes, Bayard Taylor, J. G. Holland, and other celebrities of their time.2
            
            "Remember that Bayard Taylor will lecture." To the tough-sinewed pioneers not many
                    years emerged from the log-cabin era, this announcement must have been more than mildly interesting,
                    at least to the more ambitious among them. Ignorant and gullible though they were as a group, and
                    often immersed in the boiling pot of rabid politics, some longed for refinement and intellectual
                    pursuits and warmly sponsored any movement that appeared to be educational. Their admiration for
                    Taylor and men of his calibre may be judged from this anonymous critical note from the newspaper
                    quoted above: 
                        He is apparently not more than twenty-eight or thirty years of age. [In reality he was
                            thirty-five.] He has a finely shaped head; oval face; broad, full, white forehead; fine,
                            black, glossy hair; delicately arched, slender brows; slightly Roman nose; thin nostril and
                            finely cut lips covered with brown, silky mustachios; eyes that seem black until they look
                            straight into yours, and then you discover that they are that rich, warm brown of which you
                            never see but two or three pairs in a life-time…. Through the whole course of the
                            lecture, but one word, statistics, was imperfectly spoken.
                    
            
            The good woman who wrote this commentary—surely the author was a woman—was
                    evidently captivated by 
                  
                     1 The 
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Express, Wednesday, Feb. 1, 1860.
                  
                     2 These hitherto unpublished letters of Emerson, Holmes, Bayard Taylor
                            and others ere the property of Miss Margaret Gillum, of 
                                Terre Haute
                            , to whose grandfather they were written and by whose courteous permission they
                            are here reproduced. The grandfather, Mr. Joseph Gilbert, was the secretary of the Ulyssean
                            Society, a local literary club active in the 1850's and 1860's.
               
                     the personal charm of the lecturer, and doubtless many others
                    among his hearers were similarly affected. To them Taylor was not Socrates, but Adonis. Like the
                    Polchester ladies in Walpole's The Cathedral, who spoke glibly of Greek
                    gods though they had never seen one, the pioneers were pathetically laughable in their attempt to
                    appear sophisticated.
            But this was not their only reaction. Whereas now adult interest in things cultural may sometimes
                    rise, it is to be feared, merely from a desire to escape being stifled by materialism, seventy years
                    ago it frequently arose from a thirst for the good and the beautiful and from a true passion for
                    learning. The ideas of liberty, equality, and free educational opportunities for all had by 1825
                    taken a firm hold upon the imagination of the builders of the empire in the West.
            What a Mixture of sound educational theory and farcical make-believe the old lyceum recalls! What
                    idealistic dreams and what great names! Emerson, Holmes, Bronson Alcott, Edward Everett, Thoreau,
                    Bayard Taylor, Horace Greeley, Horace Mann, Henry Ward Beecher, James Russell 
                        Lowell
                    , Phillips Brooks, Anna E. Dickinson, J. G. Holland—these and many others
                    reached out as lecturers from the older cultural centers of the East to the region north and west of
                    the 
                        Ohio
                    .
            The lyceum movement was founded in 1826 by Josiah Holbrook, a graduate of Yale. The idea was probably
                    suggested to him by the mechanics' institutes which began in 
                        England
                     late in the eighteenth century. He had a vision of an international system of education
                    for adults as well as for adolescents. His plan was to establish an organization that would extend
                    from a national center to the states, and thence to the counties, and on down to every town,
                    district, and village. Membership was voluntary, though the leaders tried to interest farmers,
                    mechanics, teachers, and even women. The word even is used advisedly, for this was
                    before the day of women's emancipation. Activities were meant to be patriotic,
                    non-partisan, educationally democratic, benevolent, and Christian. The prime object was the
                    "universal diffusion of knowledge." Annual membership fees were two dollars for
                    adults and one dollar for persons under eighteen years of age. One could have "membership
                    forever" by paying twenty dollars. Every local group was supposed to have weekly meetings
                    with alternate lectures  and debates. Employing agents with
                    managerial powers had charge of activities in given districts.
            The chief matters to be promoted were the study of natural history through a central cabinet and a
                    system of exchanges with local museums, the use of apparatus in lectures, the introduction of vocal
                    music into common school education, the study of history and international law, the preservation of
                    records and materials of local history, the establishment of people's colleges, and the
                    provision of textbooks, possibly free, for the public schools. Other aims were the improvement of
                    conversation, the supervision of amusements, the saving of expense, the founding of libraries and
                    museums, and the establishment of seminaries for teachers. One early account of the system states
                    that sometimes women were allowed to instruct in some of these subjects—an amazing
                    concession in 1826. A constitution was drawn up in 1829 by a committee headed by Henry Ware,
                    president of 
                        Harvard
                     College, and including Edward Everett.3
            
            The lyceum movement grew rapidly in the West and seemed, at least for a time, to make progress in
                    accordance with the dream of its founder. 
                        Cincinnati
                     had an active center by 1830, and 
                  Jacksonville, Illinois
               , became
                    almost a rival in the following year. The Reverend Theron Baldwin, of 
                        Jacksonville
                    , said of the beginnings of the lyceum: 
                        Its influence thus far has been very happy… The institution is peculiarly
                            calculated to bring upon common ground the individuals who make up the mixed population of
                            the West and who would scarcely be brought in any other way to harmonize in any one
                            well-directed effort on the subject of general education.4
                  
                    
            
            The first national lyceum convention was held in 
                        New York
                     early in May, 1831. Twenty-three delegates attended, 
                  
                     3 The following list of references on the lyceum will furnish material
                            on the subject to any reader who may desire to go into it more extensively: Louis J. Albert,
                            The First Hundred Years," in Journal of Adult Education (January,
                            1931); Lyman Beecher, A Plea for the West (1835): S. M. Crothers, Emerson: How to Know Him. chapter XII (1921); Nehemiah Cleaveland,
                            "Lyceums and Societies for the Diffusion of Knowledge" (
                                Boston
                            , 1839): E. W. Emerson and W. E. Forbes, The Journals of Ralph
                                Waldo Emerson (1910): Dorothy C. Fisher, Why Stop Learning?
                            (1917): J. K. Hart. Adult Education (1927): T. W. Higginson,
                            "American Audiences," in Atlantic Monthly, XVC, 38-44,
                            (January, 1905): James L. Hill, "The New Forum and the Old Lyceum," in Biblical World, XLIX, 226-32 (April, 1917): Paul 
                                Monroe
                            , in 
                        
                                    Cambridge
                                 History of American Literature, III, Chapter XXIII; Nation, VIII, 271-72 (April 1869): John S. Noffsinger, Correspondence
                                Schools, Lyceums, Chautauquas (1926): Old South Leaflets, Numbers
                            135 and 139 (
                                Boston
                            , 1829); S. C. Phillips, "On the Usefullness of Lyceums" (
                                Boston
                            , 1831): Report of the Commissioner of Education, I, 284 ff.
                            (1899-1900): R. E. Riegal, America Moves West, chapter XVI (1930); R. L.
                            Rusk, The Literature of the Middle Western Frontier, I passim (1925):
                            Harriet K. Smith, History of the 
                                    Lowell
                                 Institute (1898): W. H. Venable, Beginnings of Literary
                                Culture in the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Valey (1891): John H. Vincent, The Chautauqua
                            Movement (1886).
                  
                     4
                            Report of the (
                                United States
                            ) Commissioner of Education, I, 289.
               
                     representing one thousand town centers. The delegates zealously
                    advocated a national system, to endure "forever and ever." After eight years,
                    however, this annual convention died, and with it faded the hope for centralized control. But
                    Holbrook's general plan had caught fire in thousands of towns scattered throughout the
                    country and was to burn tenaceously until new fuel came through the chautauqua and university
                    extension.
            Emerson stands with 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        Jefferson
                     as a prophet of the future greatness of the Middle West. He loved its rugged strength,
                    and believed that one day its pioneer coarseness would give way to an active interest in the arts.
                    For more than twenty years he made an annual lecture tour of the Great Lakes region and the 
                        Illinois
                     country. His essays were nearly all tried first on the lyceum platform. His contact
                    with the West was philosophy touching nature. He never condescended and never put on airs. The
                    following note, written in his brave, confident hand, shows him, as he looked westward, to be the
                    same courteous and cultivated gentleman that he was in 
                        Boston
                     or 
                        London
                    : 
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Concord
                                ,
                                    Massachusetts
                                
                              
                           
                                    3 November, 1859
                                
                        Dear Sir,
                        I am by no means sure that I can visit 
                                        Terre Haute
                                    . Mr. P. L. Sherman of 
                                        Chicago
                                     has kindly charged himself with the general arrangement of my visits in
                                    the West, and has probably filled the limited time of my stay. I must hear from him
                                    before I can definitely answer you.
                        
                                    Respectfully,
                                    
                                        R. W. Emerson
                                    
                                
                         Mr. Gilbert 
                     
                  
                He never came, but even this little contact with the "wisest American"
                    must have been an inspiration to the literary club that tried to engage him.
            The letter of Holmes, watermarked Towgood's Extra Super 1852, is written
                    in long-hand by a secretary and signed by the poet. It bears distinctly the imprint of his genial
                    personality and cultivated manners: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                        Boston
                                    , 
                           
                                    Nov. 7, 1869
                                
                        Dear Sir,
                        I regret that my engagements for the coming season do not permit  me to accept your polite invitation to lecture at 
                                        Terre Haute
                                    .
                        
                                    With many thanks for this attention, I am
                                    Yours truly, O. W. Holmes
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            Bayard Taylor's letter is in printed form, with a postscript in his own hand.
                    Taylor's remarks about fees are rather naive, and reveal the true temper of the lecture
                        business.5 The figures after the lecture titles indicate the voted
                    preferences of the Ulyssean Club members: 
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              No. 8 St. George's Place
                              East 13th Street
                              
                                 
                                        New York
                                    
                              
                           
                                    Nov. 23, 1859
                                
                        Dear Sir:
                        My engagements for this winter will be limited, but I can accept your invitation. The
                                    evening which would best suit me is Thursday, February 2.
                        My subjects are 
                              Moscow [6]
                              Life in the North
                              Alexander von Humboldt [2]
                              The Animal Man [1]
                            and you may make your own choice. Please reply as soon as possible and
                                    oblige.
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    Bayard Taylor
                                
                        P.S. My engagements are all made, as my tour in the West will be very short. I
                                    left the above evening open for you; have heard from 
                                        Evansville
                                     that you wished a lecture from me. Terms the same as at 
                                        Evansville
                                    , $75. On account of my limited time, I can visit only the
                                    more remunerative places.
                        
                                    B. T.
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            Josiah G. Holland wrote a very brief note, with a characteristic touch of humor. Noticing that a part
                    of his name was almost identical with that of Mr. Gilbert, to whom he was writing, he expressed his
                    friendliness by underlining Josiah Gilbert:
                    
                  
                     5 "The great resource always open to him was
                            lecturing…. It was not his chosen form of expression, but having accepted the one
                            available method of turning his experience into gold, he spared no pains to make the best of
                            such gifts as he had." Taylor and Scudder, Life and Letters of Bayard
                                Taylor, I. 334.
               
                    
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Springfield,
                                Massachusetts
                                 
                              
                           
                                     Nov. 4, 1859
                                
                        Jos. Gilbert, Esq.
                        Dear Sir:
                        I can't do it. My time is used up and I am likely to be served the same
                                    way.
                        
                                    Yours truly, 
                                    
                              Josiah GilbertHolland
                                
                     
                  
               
            
            George D. Prentice, the only Middle Westerner represented in the correspondence with the Ulyssean
                    Club, comes next. It would seem from his letter that he was in considerable demand. His remark,
                    "a thoroughly no-party discourse," is very amusing when we remember how
                    explosively partisan anything connected with politics was in those stormy days.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Journal Office
                              
                                 
                                    Louisville
                                 ,Ky. 
                           
                                    Nov. 2, 1859
                                
                        My dear Sir,
                        Yours of the 26 ult. is received. I can deliver another lecture before your society,
                                    but I think I should prefer delivering it during the present month. I expect to
                                    lecture in 
                                        Lafayette
                                     about the middle of the month, and I should like to be with you the
                                    night before I am there. I shall be glad to name the exact night very soon.
                        If I come, I shall prefer leaving the terms to your association. I have written only
                                    political lectures, and should probably give you the "Politics,
                                    Politicians, and Political Conditions in the 
                                        United States
                                    ," a thoroughly no-party discourse. Please write immediately.
                        
                                    Truly yours, 
                                    George D. Prentice
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Lecturing was "big business" in 1859. Hardly could the supply meet the demand.
                    Whenever headliners were undbtainable, unknown second-raters had to be rushed in, and even they, if
                    sufficiently robustious, usually succeeded. Among those both well known and robustious was B. P.
                    Shillaber, a journalist who used the pseudonym of Mrs. Partington. Here is a specimen from his Life and Sayings of Mrs. Partington (1854): 
                        I am not so young as I once was, and I don't believe I ever shall be if I live to
                            the age of Samson, which, heaven knows as well as I do, I don't want to, for I
                            wouldn't be a centurion or an octogon and survive my factories and become
                            idiomatic by any means.
                    
            
            An American Mrs. Malaprop, indeed! Emerson says in his Journals that the Westerners
                    demanded a lecturer who could  make them laugh or they stalked
                    angrily from the lecture hall. No wonder, then, that Shillaber was a success!
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Boston
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Sept. 25, 1859
                                
                        My dear Sir,
                        Yours of a previous date to 16 Sept. I did not receive. In reply to your note of the
                                    mentioned date, I am compelled to give an unfavorable answer. I have abandoned all
                                    idea of going beyond western 
                                        New York
                                     this winter, although many inducements have been held out by yourself
                                    and others to draw me further west. Mr. George Edward Rice and Mr. Jacob Barrow have
                                    both been added to the list of lecturers, with good appeal, as I hear, to the public
                                    favor. Thanking you for your polite invitation, I subscribe myself
                        
                                    Yours very truly,
                                    B. P. Shillaber
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            In the bundle of letters to the Ulysseans are others written by Henry W. Bellows, O. M. 
                        Mitchell
                    , J. H. Wainwright, G. V. Headly, and Carl Schurz. They show the difficulties that arose
                    from poor mail service and slow transportation, and a naive readiness to mix personal affairs with
                    business. 
                        Mitchell
                    , for example, declares that he can not come because of his wife's illness,
                    adding in parenthesis that she "is suffering from paralysis." But, as the letters
                    of these lecturers tell little else, they are not quoted here.
            Looking back now upon that golden age of oratory, we can easily see why lecturing was universally
                    popular. With no radios or airplanes, with no telephones, with only very slow trains—the
                    fastest in 1860 averaged about twenty-five miles an hour—with a deplorable scarcity of
                    newspapers and books, with pitifully few and inefficient schools, the people naturally turned to the
                    spoken word. For a good half-century (1825-1880) the 
                        Mississippi
                     valley looked to this source for information and entertainment. But after the Civil War
                    a new era was at hand. Time and opportunity had opened other educational doors. Gradually the
                    chautauqua idea evolved, and then came the university extension courses.
            One commentator, writing in 1869, says that already the lecture system was dying, except "in
                    remoter districts of the valley of the 
                        Mississippi
                    … where it is possible that not only the political lecturer but the others
                    will exert a sensible intellectual influence." He is skeptical, however, adding that even
                    Emerson, if he should go West again,  "will be assured
                    of a large attendance only by having a committee that will add a dance and ‘an elegant
                    collation’ to the program under the price of admission."6
            
            Another cause of the decline of the lyceum was exploitation and commercialism. Lyman Beecher, father
                    of Henry Ward Beecher, foresaw this danger in 1835. "What will become of the
                    West," he cried, "if her prosperity rushes up to such a majesty of power while
                    those great institutions linger which are necessary to form the mind and the conscience and the
                    heart of that vast world?… We must educate! We must educate! Or we must perish by our own
                        prosperity!"7
            
            Indeed, in the end, the lecturers—that is, the educators—themselves demanded
                    too much prosperity, a thing unforeseen by the zealous Beecher. Emerson, a mixture of idealistic
                    transcendentalism and shrewd Yankee practicality, gradually advanced from no fee at all for his
                    lectures to the sum of five hundred dollars. "My pulpit," he once said,
                    "is the lyceum platform." For some time his figure stood at five dollars at home,
                    and later, in most of his trips to the West, he received fifty dollars. Henry Ward Beecher, speaking
                    at 
                        Boston
                     in 1880, climbed to the incredible sum of one thousand dollars. John B. Gough, the
                    famous temperance lecturer, began at eight dollars and ended only a little below
                    Beecher's best. Henry M. Stanley, by virtue of having found Livingstone, made
                    $287,070 from one hundred and ten lectures.8 The "star
                    course," as it was called, was indeed bright with the allurement of gold.
            Thus ignobly perished a great educational dream. One of our presidents called the lyceum
                    "the most American thing in America." And it was. Like our nation, it was
                    "conceived in liberty and dedicated to the proposition that all men are created
                    equal." Especially in the West was the lyceum a godsend. It proved to be, at the time and
                    under the circumstances, by far the most efficient means of converting a crude and often
                    anti-cultural people to sound ideals of living and thinking, and it pointed them the way, long and
                    arduous though it is, that leads to sweetness and light. We, their descendants, are still laboring
                    up the ascent. Let us look upon their letters 
                  
                     6
                     Nation, VIII, 271-72 (April, 1869).
                  
                     7
                            A Plea for the West, 31-32.
                  
                     8
                            Biblical World, XLIX. 226-32
               
                     and records with gratitude. Perhaps, as Alice said, these things
                    are only "pictures and conversations," but they are the best part of our
                books.
         
         
         
            Prehistoric American Diet
            By GLEN A. BLACK
            
            The first inhabitants of this country, regardless of where they came from, or when, were food
                    hunters, depending entirely upon the resources of nature for their existence. Such a condition and
                    mode of living necessitated a constant movement and search for food. In seasons of food failure
                    death or a long movement to new localities was inevitable. Sir Arthur Keith has said that
                    "A tribe numbering fifty souls, if they depend for a livelihood on the natural produce of
                    soil or river, needs a fertile territory of 100 square miles for its subsistence." Such a
                    condition would permit only a very low form of culture as no time or energy would be available for
                    the development of the arts.
            There was nothing edible that the aborigine would not eat if conditions required. All animal products
                    of land, sea and lake, all fleshy roots and seeds went into his maw, but the first American was
                    mainly a vegetarian.
            Among such foods wild fruits perhaps came first in point of quantity. America abounded in
                    berries—gooseberries, huckleberries, black raspberries, cranberries, blackberries,
                    strawberries and others. Plums of three varieties white, red and black, wild grapes both white and
                    red, crabapples, haws, persimmons, paw paws, and in some parts of the Americas, the pineapple, all
                    contributed largely to his diet.
            Father Allouez, a Jesuit Missionary toward the end of the seventeenth century, reported the natives
                    of the 
                        Illinois
                     country using "from trees and plants 42 different kinds of fruit all of which
                    are excellent." Of course they ate every edible variety of nut and had known how to obtain
                    maple sugar from the maple tree since time immemorial.
            Early European explorers were much impressed by the amount of grain they found growing in America.
                    The white observers were often ignorant of the fact, but much of this grain was wild. Wild rye was
                    common on the Atlantic coast north of 
                        Virginia
                    . It was this that the Norse explorers spoke of as growing in the form of "self
                    sown wheat fields." It was also this grain that Captain John Smith found the 
                        Virginia
                     Indians using as what he termed a "dainty bread buttered with deer
                    suet." Who can read such phrases as this last, frequent 
                    in the literature of early exploration in the Americas, and not believe that the early American
                    lived well?
            When the prehistoric Indian developed maize, or corn, from a wild seed bearing grass, believed to
                    have been teocintli, and at the same time invented agriculture, that is, when he
                    began to gather seeds and plant them under conditions favorable to their growth,
                    he took a very great step upward in the cultural scale and
                    towards civilization. We do not know when he took this step, or how, but that it was in the remote
                    past is suggested by the fact that the wild grass, teocintli, is still found in 
                        Mexico
                     but the intermediate steps or missing links between it and maize have never been
                    identified and are probably lost in oblivion. Agriculture and the cultivation of at least a portion
                    of his food permitted the Indian to become sedentary, somewhat independent of nature, and provided
                    that residue of food necessary for leisure. As leisure is necessary for cultural attainments it was
                    only at this time that he was able to make any appreciable progress. It is a fact worthy of note
                    that the highest cultures are found exclusively within the agricultural area and then in a degree of
                    development in direct proportioa to the fertility of the area. Central America, where agriculture
                    probably originated, is the highest culturally of any territory in the Americas with the exception
                    of Peru, where climatic conditions were especially favorable to plant growth.
            Of all agricultural items of the prehistoric American, corn ranks foremost in importance. Cultural
                    development among the Indians was dependent upon it and even the colonization of the 
                        United States
                     by the Whites owes its success largely to the Indian and his corn. It is one of our
                    most important cereals and possibly the oldest. The present market price of corn certainly does not
                    seem to support these statements but they are true nevertheless [December, 1932].
            Few of us realize how completely we have absorbed the corn complex of the American Indian. The Indian
                    method of hand planting in hills is still followed today under modernized methods. Squash or
                    pumpkin, and beans were inseparable from an Indian corn field and are still so planted. The word hominy, with which we are familiar, is strictly American Indian in origin and
                    meaning. It means hulled maize. The method of hulling by the use of wood ashes was Indian in origin
                    and has given rise to our name Lye Homing. Succotash is another word of Indian
                    origin, meaning green corn and beans cooked together. 
                    Squash is still another Indian word which has been adopted into the American
                    language, and this product is extensively used as an item of our diet. Botanists have agreed that
                    all of the common varieties of squash were generally used by prehistoric Americans. Every edible
                    variety of bean with the exception of the soy-bean and the horse-bean were originated and
                    extensively used by American Indians. The white potato and the sweet potato were the outstanding
                    root crops cultivated by the southern Indians though little is known of their use in the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley. The true potato is the sweet potato, which belongs to the morning glory family.
                    The miss-named Irish potato is of the nightshade family to which the tomato
                    belongs. Many plants of this family are poisonous which accounts for the aversion to the
                    "red poison apple," as the tomato was called until the nineteenth century.
                    Nevertheless it was cultivated and eaten in Central America in pre-Columbian times.
            By cultivating at least a part of the food items given above, together with what nature provided,
                    Keith's same tribe of fifty, by cultivating only a hundredth of one square mile, could
                    multiply the number of members by four and still subsist. It can readily be seen what a vital part
                    agriculture played in cultural progress and in populating the prehistoric Americas.
            Of the aboriginal methods of preparing foods the accounts on which we must depend are full but
                    diverse. When we consider that their only way of cooking was at an open fire and their only utensil
                    the earthen vessel, we can understand the surprise exhibited by the old chroniclers at the variety
                    of dishes the prehistoric Americans were able to prepare from wild flesh, corn, beans, pumpkin,
                    squash, dried fruits, roots, nuts and herbs. Of nuts they had a great variety and besides using them
                    as we do, they pounded them in mortars and made them into bread and broth or used them to mix with
                    their hominy.
            Bartram, an early traveler in the south, speaks of hickory milk which he describes as being as sweet
                    and rich as fresh cream. To make it they first pounded the nuts in a mortar or on flat stone and
                    then cast them into boiling water, which, after being passed through fine strainers, preserved the
                    most oily part of the fluid. It was used as an ingredient in most of their cooking especially in
                    hominy and corn cakes, as well  as furnishing an agreeable drink.
                    Sometimes they skimmed off the oil and left it in gourds or earthen vessels, using it as we do
                    butter on their corn cakes or to give body and flavor to their broth when meat was scarce. Sunflower
                    seeds were treated in a similar manner among the southern Indians.
            Acorns were used extensively in making broth and bread after having first been soaked in lye to
                    remove their bitterness. They were also boiled and the oil skimmed off and preserved in gourds and
                    jars. Bread and gruel were made of the wild cane seed of the 
                        Mississippi
                     Valley, and another cereal much used was wild rice, the same plant that hunters now
                    disseminate to attract ducks.
            In their constant search for vegetable products from which to make flour, the ancient Americans
                    experimented with a great variety of nuts when making bread. Among these were the chestnut,
                    hazelnut, walnut, pecan, the chinkapin and the acorn. The seed of the sunflower was used, and it
                    also provided an oil much relished as a dressing. The Jerusalem arbichoke, which is neither an
                    artichoke nor from Jerusalem, was employed for the concoction of both bread and broth. This plant
                    and the sunflower both became objects of intensive cultivation, whereas the nuts were everywhere so
                    plentiful that cultivation was not necessary.
            Corn, the foundation of all their cooking, was prepared in a number of ways. Among them there was one
                    dish that was in such demand and favor that it may be said to be typical. To the French it was known
                    as sagamite, while among the English it was variously termed sump and hominy. Both the latter words are Indian in origin as is the dish
                    itself. It was made of ripe corn, either whole or crushed, and boiled with meat or fish, either
                    dried or fresh. Sometimes in the spring or early summer, Indians used green corn and beans boiled
                    together and which under the original Indian name succotash was included in our
                    menu this evening.1
            
            Corn bread was made in a variety of ways, from ripe corn. Our term Johnny Cake was derived from an
                    Indian word meaning "journey cake" and so called because of its extensive use
                    while traveling about due to its portability and high nutritive value. The corn-pone is also Indian
                    in origin.
            
               
                  1 Thin paper was read at the dinner of the Local Historical Societies on
                        December 9, 1932, held in 
                            Indianapolis
                         in connection with the annual Indiana History Conference, as stated by the author
                        of the paper, all the items on the menu of the dinner of the evening were articles of food used
                        by American Indians, save coffee and butter.
            
            
            We do not think of the potato as a cereal, but the ancient Americans treated it as such. Perhaps no
                    vegetable is more widely used in the civilized world than this tuber, yet no plant has been so much
                    misrepresented, not even the tomato. This common white root is usually referred to as the
                    "Irish Potato" but, as the late W. E. Safford of the 
                        United States
                     Department of Agriculture has pointed out, "It is only a potato by analogy and
                    Irish by extraction."
            The peanut, sometimes referred to as the ground-nut, was developed by the natives of South America.
                    Soon after the discovery of America by 
                        Columbus
                    , the Spaniards took the peanut to Africa and slave ships bringing negroes to North
                    America at a later period brought the peanut with them. Thus the peanut, like the potato, had to
                    cross the Atlantic from South America in order to get into North America. The potato was first
                    introduced into the English Colonies of the 
                        United States
                     in 1719, several hundred years after its aboriginal inception in the South Americas.
            Tapioca pudding is still a fairly common dessert in the 
                        United States
                     and has been included in our dinner tonight. But to few who are not specialists in
                    botany do the words yuca, mndepore, maihot, cassaba, cassava, manyoc and manioc mean anything. Yet these are all native names for the plant which yields
                    tapioca.
            Manioc had a wide distribution in early America. Where the climate was too hot for maize, manioc was
                    often the staple food. It is a root plant and the most interesting thing about it is that the juice
                    is poisonous. Throughout the region where it was eaten the root was everywhere treated in an
                    identical manner for the removal of this poisonous juice containing prussic acid. The root was
                    grated and the pulp squeezed in basketry presses. When the juice had been pressed out of the pulp
                    the residue was made into cakes and heated until the volatile poisoning remaining had been removed.
                    The result was "cassava bread." Here we have an analogy in the process of poison
                    removal from a root in South America with the process applied to the acorn in North America to
                    remove its bitterness.
            The bulk of the information we have regarding Indian foods and the methods of preparing them has been
                    left us through the historical accounts of early explorers, missionaries, Jesuit Priests, travelers
                    and traders. We are therefore  largely dependent upon the
                    written word for our information. In Indiana we can also rely somewhat upon archeological methods
                    and research for our data. Archeology has been termed "frozen history" and when we
                    consider just what archeology really is the truth of the term becomes apparent. The archeologist
                    reads the words contained in the earth making up the habitation sites and burial places of
                    prehistoric peoples. The area under investigation is his volume and the articles left by the
                    aboriginal inhabitants are the words contained therein. This type of word is just as legible as that
                    of the printed record, if you know the language, provided of course, that the objects have not been
                    removed from their proper setting. It is merely a matter of interpretation and the transformation of
                    the earth-words to the printed form to make the story readable to all.
            It is the village sites with their ever present refuse deposits, either in heap or pit form, that we
                    must turn to obtain a record of the every day life of really prehistoric peoples in Indiana. From
                    excavations in prehistoric sites in Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     we have material evidence that corroborates in every way the printed accounts left us
                    from the early historic period.
            In practically every pit, bones of the 
                        Virginia
                     deer are found and figures show that this animal formed the major portion of the meat
                    diet of the Indians formerly inhabiting this area. Bones of the elk, squirrel, muskrat, woodchuck,
                    bear, panther and wildcat are found but in numbers far under those of the deer. It may be that the
                    smaller animals were more difficult to capture with primitive weapons than was the deer. The bones
                    of animals are almost always cracked open and crushed showing that the Indian did not overlook one
                    of the most wholesome portions of the animal, the marrow of the bones. The buffalo, always
                    associated with the Indian in mind at least, is rarely found in habitation sites east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . We know that the buffalo was present in this area in large numbers well back into the
                    proto-historic period and the absence of its bones from refuse deposits is somewhat of a puzzle. It
                    may be accounted for by a consideration of the size of the animal and by the difficulty that would
                    be entailed in bringing the body entire into the village. It may be that such meat as was desired
                    was stripped from the carcass at the point of capture and the residue left to be consumed by
                    carnivorous  animals and the elements. This is merely an
                    assumption however.
            The wild 
                        turkey
                    , ducks of several varieties, the trumpeter swan, quails, partridges, pigeons and the
                    larger shore birds are represented in numbers in the pits. The bones of birds were largely used for
                    the manufacture of beads, bone awls and needles which may account for their comparative rarity to
                    those of animals, or again it may be due to difficulty of capture.
            Terrapin shells are found in numbers showing that these animals provided food. The shells also served
                    admirably as cups and small containers formed by cutting the marginal scutes and cleaning the
                    interior of the shell. Shells of the fresh water mussel are found on all sites in every locality
                    where that animal was obtainable. Judging from the amount of shells found the mussel was comparable
                    to the oyster of the east coast in point of popularity as a food. Huge heaps, composed almost
                    entirely of shells, isolated from village sites would indicate that the mussels were obtained and
                    dried at points were they were numerous and carried back to the habitation sites.
            Seeds of the paw paw, wild plum, wild grape and wild cherry have been found cached away under
                    circumstances that would indicate that the seeds had been preserved after the fruit had been
                    consumed. Hickory nuts, walnuts, butternuts and acorns are found in numbers. Corn and beans have
                    been found stored together in grass lined cache pits. Sunflower seeds, shells of gourds and squash
                    together with corn, corn cobs and nuts have been found in dry caves and rock shelters where
                    atmospheric conditions were conducive to their preservation.
            In 
                        Greene
                     County, just surveyed for the Indiana Historical Society, hickory nuts were found in
                    numbers in the pits of two village sites excavated. Corn was not found but shreds of pottery bearing
                    a form of decoration on the exterior surface that had been made while the clay was still plastic by
                    impressing a corn cob into the surface. This fact, together with the finding of many mortars and
                    pestles such as were used to grind corn, provides good presumptive evidence that corn was known and
                    used in the county during prehistoric times. It is also possible that wild rice abounded in the once
                    extensive  marshes in the county which fact, if true, would
                    account for the extreme density of aboriginal population as was revealed by the survey.
            A list of the agricultural items and their by-products, which were grown and formed a part of the
                    prehistoric American diet and in turn have become major items in our own diet, includes: maize or
                    corn of several varieties, white potato, meet potato, tomato, pumpkin, squash, lima bean, kidney
                    bean, Jerusalem artichoke, peppers, cassava (from which tapioca is made), cocoa, yam, yam-bean,
                    pineapple, strawberry, guava, the peanut and the avacado or alligator pear. Domestic animals and
                    fowls include the muscovy duck, the guinea-pig and the 
                        turkey
                    , which, strangely, enough, in the country of 
                        Turkey
                     is called the American Bird.
            Every item on our menu this evening with the exception of coffee and butter is typically American
                    Indian in origin. We could have gone so far as to include cigars and cigarettes and, if you care to
                    indulge, chewing gum. The justification for including the last item is the chicle chewing habits of
                    the Indians of Central America.
         
         
         
            Kingdom Church
            By DONALD F. CARMONY
            
            Kingdom Church was the first of its denomination, the church of the United Brethren in Christ, to be
                    established in 
                        Shelby
                     County, Indiana.1 It was organized exactly a decade after James
                    Wilson made a permanent settlement in the county in 1821.2 This settlement was
                    made on the east bank of Big Blue river about five miles north of the present city of Shelbyville.
                    The fame of this river was in time spread far and wide by the beautiful story, The
                        Bears of Blue River
               , from the pen of Charles Major. The old Kingdom
                    Church was built about four miles northeast of where James Wilson settled.
            A few historical moorings will be helpful in taking us back to the time when Kingdom Church was
                    founded. The Church of the United Brethren in Christ was organized as a separate denomination at
                            
                  Baltimore, Maryland
               , in 1789.3 The first church of this sect
                    to be founded in Indiana, so far as present knowledge indicates, was Pfrimmer's Church
                    (now called Pfrimmer's Chapel) which was organized in 
                        Harrison
                     County early in 1812.4 At this time all of what is now the State of
                    Indiana was a part of the 
                        Miami
                     Conference.5 In 1830 the Indiana Conference was organized
                    "consisting of the state of Indiana, and the adjacent territory northward and
                        westward."6 When Kingdom Church was established it was made a
                    member of the Indiana Conference. In 1846 it became one of the charter members of the 
                        White
                     River Conference.7
            
            From 1820 to 1830 there were many who settled between the forks of the Little Blue and Big Blue
                    rivers. In this area, the virgin soil was rich and very well adapted to the needs of the pioneer. In
                    1828 Baptists had erected a log church on the 
                  
                     1 Commonly called The United Brethren Church. Not to be confused with
                            the Church of the Brethren, commonly called Dunkar or Dunker Church.
                  
                     2 A tablet erected at 
                                Marion
                            , where James Wilson settled, states that he was the first permanent settler.
                            This may not be true for there were many who came to 
                                Shelby
                             County about this time. The hill establishing 
                                Shelby
                             County was approved by Gov. Jonathan 
                                Jennings
                             on Dec. 31, 1821. See Laws of Indiana, 1821-1822, ch. 31.
                  
                     3 A. C. Wilmore, History of the 
                                    White
                                 River Conference (1926), p. 16. Fourteen preachers were charter
                            members of this Conference. Nine were of the Reformed Church, four of the Mennonite Church,
                            and one of Moravian United Brethren Church. Philip William Otterbein, a native of 
                                Germany
                            , presided Over the Conference.
                  
                     4 Adam Byron Condo, History of the Indiana
                            Conference (1926). P. 15.
                  
                     5 Wilmore, p. 28.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., p. 37.
                  
                     7 In 1835 the 
                                Wabash
                             Conference was organized making three Conferences in the State. After this the
                            Indiana Conference constituted the southern portion of the state, 
                                White
                             River Conference the central portion, and 
                                Wabash
                             Conference the northern area. These are the three Conferences of the church in
                            Indiana at present.
               
                     south bank of the Little Blue in what is now 
                        Union
                     Township.8 This was the first church of the community of which
                    there is any record. As has already been observed, it was but three years until the community was to
                    have another, old Kingdom Church, which was located about two miles north of the Baptist church
                    along the southern boundary of what is now 
                        Hanover
                     Township.
            A memorandum on page eight of the pastor's record book of Blue River
                    Circuit for the year 1883 gives the following account of the establishment of Kingdom Church: 
                        The 
                                Union
                             Class, which was afterwards called Kingdom Church, was organized in the fall of
                            1831 by Aaron Farmer, pastor in charge of Flat Rock Circuit, Indiana Conference. The 
                                Union
                             meeting House, afterward called Kingdom Church, was built in 1832 while Aaron
                            Farmer was the pastor in charge. The Blue River circuit took the place
                            of Old Kingdom Church. From conversation with D. Stover, October. 1883.9
                  
                    
            
            The Rev. Augustus C. Wilmore, author of a history of 
                        White
                     River Conference, made the above memorandum during his term as pastor at Blue
                        River Chapel in 1883-1884.10 Daniel Stover, who supplied the
                    data, was a contemporary of both Rev. Farmer and Dr. Wilmore. The Indiana Conference Minutes of 1831
                    record that Rev. Farmer was assigned to Flat Rock Circuit and in this early period Kingdom Church
                    was a part of that Circuit.11 The Conference Minutes of 1833 show that the
                    annual Conference met at Kingdom Church.12 If the log church had not yet been
                    erected in 1832 it is very doubtful if the conference of that year would have selected Kingdom
                    Church as the next meeting place.
            The Rev. Aaron Farmer, who organized the 
                        Union
                     Class, was a pioneer leader in the Church of the United Brethren in Christ. John
                    Lawrence, in a history of the church, says of him: 
                        But no one of the pioneers in Indiana, and in Indiana Conferences, rendered more
                            distinguished service to the cause of Christ, between 1825 and 1839, than Aaron Farmer. Born
                            among the poor, and in a new country, his early advantages were few. Soon after his
                            conversion he entered the ministry, and, early in 1824 was employed as an itinerant 
                        
                           8
                           Centennial History of the Little Blue
                                            River Baptist Church (pamphlet).
                        
                           9 Letter from Dr. A. C. Wilmore, 1929.
                        
                           10 As the author of the History of 
                                            White
                                         River Conference already referred to and as pastor of
                                        Blue River Chapel, Dr. Wilmore had access to many documents
                                    of the church. He studied Conference minutes and other sources with great care. Dr.
                                    Wilmore died at Winchester, Indiana in April, 1933.
                        
                           11 Letter from Dr. Wilmore.
                        
                           12 Wilmore, p. 42. The Conference was held September 5-10,
                                    1833.
                     
                             …. When Mr. Farmer commenced his labors he
                            was about twenty-five years of age …. On the first day of March, 1839, he died in
                            great peace…. In person Mr. Farmer was quite prepossessing. Height five feet ten,
                            firmly built, face round and full, forehead broad and high, chest full.13
                  
                    
            
            In 1829 Rev. Farmer had begun the publication of what seems to have been the first denominational
                    paper published under the supervision of the Church of the United Brethren in Christ. This paper was
                    called Zion's Advocate and was published at 
                        Salem
                    , 
                        Washington
                     County, Indiana.14
            
            Very little is known of the earliest history of 
                        Union
                     Class (Kingdom Church). Homes of various members served as the meeting place for some
                    of the services. A tradition reveals that meetings were held in a school house of the community.
                    Still another tradition suggests that services were held in a barn owned by a man named Thornberry.
                    It is not known who constituted the membership of the Class as organized in the fall of 1831. Some
                    of the more prominent early members were: 
                        John Carmony, Sr., Sarah A. Carmony, William Montgomery , Mary Montgomery, Barton Rhoades,
                            Sarah Rhoades, Matthias M. Hook, Melvina Hook, Michael Billman, Magdalena Billman, David
                            Bowers, Nancy Myer Bowers, William Bollibaugh, Rachel Bollibaugh, Anderson Talbert, Mary
                            Talbert, Peter Myer, Maria Myer, Angeline Copple Phares, George Carmony, Elizabeth Carmony,
                            Anderson Carmony, Maria Carmony, Isaac Carmony, Sarah Carmony, James Carmony, Eliza Carmony,
                            Samuel Engle, Lodema Engle, Joseph Carmony, Sr., Christena Carmony, Eli Myer, and Louisa
                            Talbert Myer.15
                  
                    
            
            The log church erected in 1832 was located in a locust grove. John Carmony, Sr., William 
                        Montgomery
                    , and James Carmony were the trustees who supervised the building of the church.16 The church was made of hewed logs and is commonly said to have been
                    thirty-six feet long and thirty feet wide. The entrance was at the south side. There were four
                    windows in the church, two on each of the east and west sides. The seats were in rows running east
                    and west across the church 
                  
                     13 John Lawrence, The History of the Church of the United
                                Brethren in Christ (1868), Vol. II, pp. 260-7.
                  
                     14 Letter from Dr. Wilmore. This paper was published for only a few
                            years. It was no doubt one of the pioneer religious papers of the state. No copy of the
                            paper has been found by the writer.
                  
                     15 Wilmore, p. 846. Wilmore states that the persons listed by him were
                            charter members. When the writer informed Dr. Wilmore that one member listed was still
                            living, the explanation was given that he simply included all those that belonged to the
                            church during the period of the old log church as charter members. The list is not complete
                            on that basis, but it does indicate some of the pioneer members.
                  
                            16
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     except for two or three rows up in the "Amen
                    Corner" which were placed at right angles to the others. The whole pulpit was elevated
                    about three feet. At one time the seats were made of split logs with limbs of trees for legs. These
                    were later replaced with more "modern pews" made of wide boards. In the earliest
                    period greased paper was used to cover the windows.17 It is said that on one
                    occasion when the members of the church were holding Quarterly Conference meeting at the church,
                    their proceedings were interrupted by the commotion made by hogs which had crowded together
                    underneath the building. Some members were delegated to drive the hogs from under the church after
                    which the meeting continued. This story is evidence that the structure rested on blocks or boulders
                    with an open space under the floor.
            The records which have been quoted show that the original name of the church group was "
                        Union
                     Class" but that the name "Kingdom Class" soon became more
                    common. This latter name is not often heard among the younger members of the church today but is
                    familiar to the older residents of the community. The name Kingdom Class had a very interesting
                    origin. According to a common version of an oft repeated story John Carmony, Sr., was one of the
                    more prominent members of the early church and community. He was tall, husky, and strong. In fact he
                    is said to have had some resemblance to a giant. He had long arms, could lift more than any of the
                    other men, and could chop a log in two with an axe quicker than any competitor in the neighborhood.
                    At wood choppings, log rollings, and other pioneer doings he excelled. His fellow pioneers noticed
                    this superiority and decided to crown him king. Therefore a wreath of leaves was prepared and placed
                    upon his head as a crown. From this time on he came to be known as the "King," the
                    community as the "Kingdom" neighborhood, the church as the "Kingdom
                    Church," and the cemetery as the "Kingdom Burial Ground."18 Though this particular family has not become famous for producing additional giants,
                    the story, with the embellishments added by time, is good evidence that these pioneer fathers could
                    enjoy themselves abundantly.
            For many years in the history of Kingdom Church most of the members either walked to meeting or went
                    in wagons. 
                  
                     17 This description is largely that of 
                                Monroe
                             Robbins of Rushville, Indiana. Mr. Robbins attended services in the old log
                            building of Kingdom Church as a boy.
                  
                     18 This story was told by Mr. Robbins. John Carmony was his
                            grandfather.
               
                     Some rode horseback. Many walked several miles to attend
                    services. A letter from 
                        Marshall
                     R. Myer, a former pastor now living in 
                        Florida
                    , gives the reader a picture of a prayer meeting service: 
                        I can remember that when possibly four or five years old I begged to go with father to a
                            prayer meeting at the old Kingdom Church, Father led me by one hand and carried an old tin
                            lantern with a tallow candle in it in the other, and walked through timber a direct route. A
                            part of the time the door of the lantern was left open to get more light. We were the first
                            to arrive at the church and father took his tallow candle out of the lantern, turned the
                            lighted end down and let the melted tallow fall on a little board projecting from the wall a
                            few feet above the floor and then, he turned the lighted end up and placed the other in the
                            melted tallow and then the candle sat upright, Others coming soon did the same thing. There
                            was a wonderfully good prayer meeting that night.19
                  
                    
            
            There is much evidence to indicate that enthusiasm played a very important part in the services of
                    the old church. Meetings were very informal. Those in the "Amen Corner" felt free
                    to express themselves and the success or failure of the sermon upon the congregation was generally
                    considered to be determined to a great extent by the amount of enthusiasm displayed. Testimony
                    meetings which still form a part of the prayer meeting service and occasionally of other services,
                    were times especially dear to many members. During revivals or protracted meetings testimonies were
                    encouraged. A revival which could not stimulate such enthusiasm was generally conceded to be a
                    failure.
            It seems that a member named Nathan Young was well known in the community for his long prayers. A
                    common version of an oft repeated story tells how some of the members having arrived late for a
                    service were obliged to wait at the church door for Nathan to cease praying. One member becoming
                    impatient asked: "How long will it be before Nathan stops praying?" A friend
                    replied, "I don't know. I wasn't here when he started but I know that
                    he usually prays about forty-five minutes." With a liberal deduction for exaggeration, it
                    would seems that Nathan's prayers must have been long enough! There were in early
                    churches seldom enough song books to go around and Old Kingdom Church was no exception. It was
                    customary for the minister or song leader to read two lines 
                  
                     19 Letter from Rev. Myer to Mrs. Fern Grover of Shelbyville.
               
                     of song, after which the congregation would sing these two
                    lines. Then the leader would read again and the congregation follow in song, and so on to the end.
                    This process of lining a hymn did not need to be repeated very many times until the song would be
                    "learned by heart." And on many occasions song services became so informal that
                    some one would lead out spontaneously in singing a song knowing that the others would join in
                    unison. When the pastor was not present it was not at all uncommon for some member of the
                    congregation, or some visiting brothers to take charge of the services. There were likely to be
                    several "exhorters" in any community. Sermons were preached from the heart as
                    directed by the will of God. To depend upon human strength, and especially to resort to the use of
                    notes, for a sermon was considered a sign of weakness.
            In doctrine and dogma, any local Church of the United Brethren sect has always been governed by the
                    discipline of its denomination. The dogmas and doctrines of this sect have been very conservative
                    but strongly humanitarian. As early as 1821, the general conference of the denomination passed a
                    resolution severely condemning slavery. The resolution which was adopted barred slaveholders from
                    membership in the church and required that those who already owned slaves either manumit them or
                    lose their membership. The same general conference wrote in the minutes "that neither
                    preacher nor lay member shall be allowed to carry on a distillery."20
                    The first session of the 
                        White
                     River Conference in 1847 adopted a resolution condemning slavery as
                    "anti-scriptural and unjust." This same conference adopted a resolution condemning
                    the Mexican War, then being waged, as an "Unholy International War," and took
                    action which led to the expulsion of a preacher who had volunteered for service in the war.21 The conference regarded the war as a war for the extension of slavery and the
                    preacher was expelled on the charge of "immorality" for having volunteered in such
                    an unholy war.22 Three years later, the annual 
                        White
                     River conference adopted a resolution calling for a more scriptural and conscientious
                    observance of the Holy Sabbath as necessary in both the laity and clergy of the 
                  
                     20 Wilmore, p. 119. Quoted from General Conference minutes.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., p. 122.
                  
                     22 The resolution stated that the war was "a war for the
                            extension of slavery." The writer does not agree with this view but offers this
                            resolution as an indication of Indiana sentiment among certain elements at the time of the
                            Mexican War.
               
                     church. Traveling on the Sabbath, except for religious
                    purposes, was condemned as being contrary to the word of God.23 In 1865, the
                    closing year of the War, the 
                        White
                     River Conference held its annual session at Blue River Chapel,
                    which had become the successor of the old Kingdom Church in 1854. This session took a very strong
                    stand against the use of liquor, called for a more strict observance of the Sabbath, and adopted a
                    resolution calling for Negro Suffrage in the reconstruction of the South.24
                    Prior to the Civil War, there was opposition to Free Masonry but it was many years before it became
                    a disruptive force in the church.
            Early in its history, the Church of the Brethren had developed two major factions relative to the
                    attitude that should be taken by the denomination toward membership of Christians in secret
                    societies. One faction opposed secret orders as being unchristian and hence not to be tolerated in
                    either the laity or clergy of the church. Another group, which constantly grew in numbers, believed
                    that secret orders were not inconsistent with Christian ideals. The former group became known as
                    "radicals"; the latter as "liberals". For many years annual
                    conferences were moved by the mighty undertow of this factional struggle. Not long before 1890, the
                    "liberals" won control of the general conference and made membership in secret
                    orders permissable according to the discipline of the church.25 Immediately
                    court trials were instituted in various churches of several Conferences. Almost all of these trials
                    resulted in victory for the "liberal" element.
            It is not surprising that this struggle had its repercussion at Blue River
                    Chapel. In 1887, two years before the "liberals" had won formal control of the
                    general conference, the 
                        White
                     River Conference adopted a resolution "that the conference will not recognize
                    persons who persist in affiliating with secret societies, in violation of the constitution, as
                    members of the church."26 For years the 
                        White
                     River Conference had been dominated by the "radicals." The struggle,
                    as would be suspected of a church contest, was a bitter one. The membership of Blue
                    River Chapel seems to have been preponderantly "radical." For a time
                    the church doors were locked. Finally the 
                  
                     23 Wilmore. p. 135. Quoted from Conference minutes.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., pp. 161-2. Conference in August.
                  
                     25 Minutes of General Conferences during this period.
                  
                     26 Wilmore, p. 203. Dr. Wilmore was a member of the Masonic order and
                            favored the "liberal" forces.
               
                     two contesting factions of the church in Indiana agreed to
                    accept the trial arising out of the conflict in the Sugar Grove Church of 
                        Wayne
                     County, Indiana, as the legal test. The Circuit Court of 
                        Wayne
                     county decided the case in favor of the "liberals." The
                    "radicals" appealed to the Indiana Supreme Court which rendered a unanimous
                    decision in favor of the "liberals."27 Thus the
                    "liberals" were given legal title to the church property. Some of the
                    "radicals" at Blue River Chapel refused to continue
                    membership in the old church. They organized a separate congregation and built a church at Mt.
                    Carmel, about three miles northwest of Blue River Chapel. This church was in
                    use for about two decades. For many years the feeling between the two churches was very unfriendly.
                    However this feeling disappeared in time and gradually most of the radicals returned to the old
                    church, though a few refused. Some even declared that the "liberals" were using
                    stolen property. Today one could belong to the church and never hear anything of this struggle which
                    occurred less than a half century ago.
            As suggested previously Blue River Chapel became the successor of the old
                    Kingdom Church in 1854. The 
                        Shelby
                     County Recorder's Office furnishes an account of the action that led to the
                    establishment of Blue River Chapel as the successor of old Kingdom Church:
                        
                        State of Indiana, 
                                Shelby
                             County. Nov. 7th 1852. To all whom it may concern. This may certify that at at
                            a meeting of the Church of the United Brethren in Christ held at Kingdom Chappel 
                                Shelby
                             County Ind. on the day and year above written Michael Billman, M. M. Hook, and
                            Samuel Copple were by unanimous consent of the members present and according to the order of
                            the aforesaid society duly constituted a board of trustees in trust for the church of the
                            United Brethren in Christ whose duty it shall be to secure by deed of conveyance a suitable
                            site and erect or cause to be erected thereon a good and commodious house of worship in the
                            vicinity of William 
                                Montgomery
                            's Schoolhouse or District Schoolhouse No. 4 in Congressional
                            Township 15, North of Range No. 7 East. The same to be deeded to them and their successors
                            in office and by them to be held as trustees in trust for the said Church of the United
                            Brethren in Christ forever. Witness our hands and seal the day and year first above
                                written.28
                  
                     This document was signed by M. M. Hook, secretary of the meetin, and by J. T. Vardaman,
                    Presiding Elder. The document was placed on the record November 10, 1852.
            
               
                  27
                        Ibid., p. 209.
               
                  28 Book U (County Recorder's Office, Shelbyville), p.
                    131.
            
            
            
               Blue River Chapel was erected two years later. It is located almost exactly one
                    mile south and one mile east of the place where the old log building of Kingdom Church stood. Eli
                    Myer and his wife gave the land upon which the church was built, The new church, a large frame
                    structure, was erected at a cost of about $1,700. It is probable that some services were
                    held in the log church (Old Kingdom Church) after 1854. During the later fifties, a Mr. Walker and
                    family lived in the old church, These people raised geese which were often kept in one corner of the
                    building. This old log church house probably stood for many years after 1854.
            The Rev. Thomas Evans was pastor when Blue River Chapel was built. The Rev. John
                    Smith dedicated the church. Mrs. Angeline Copple Phares, who died a few years ago, attended the
                    dedicatory service. She told the writer of this article that she recalled the text used by the Rev.
                    Smith, which was Ephesians 2:19-22. Three annual sessions of the 
                        White
                     River Conference have been held in the Blue River Chapel. The
                    first in 1865, the second in 1877, and the third in 1886. Two annual conferences were held earlier
                    in the old log church; the first in 1833 and the second in 1848.29
                    Blue River Chapel is "the second oldest frame church still in use in 
                        White
                     River Conference."30
            
            At some date between 1880 and 1890, the Chapel was remodeled. At that time a belfry was added and a
                    bell placed on the church. One of the members protested against this departure and in his stuttering
                    and stammering manner suggested "that one might travel from A to Isarel and never see a
                    thing like that on a church." Near the close of the first decade of the present century,
                    the church was again remodeled. The first piano used in the church was given by Levi Myer in 1920.
                    Be fore that time an organ had been used for many years. In 1929 the church received
                    $1000 dollars from the will of Alfred Dyer. This money was used to make needed repairs
                    and improvements in the Chapel building.
            The Ladies Aid Society was organized during the first pastorate of Oscar F. Lydy during the later
                    nineties. Some old journals reveal that there was once a very large and active Blue
                    River Temperance 
                        Union
                    . Very little is revealed by these 
                  
                     29 Wilmore, Part V, gives brief data relative to the various
                            Conference meetings. See file for 
                                White
                             River Conference.
                  
                     30 Letter from Dr. Wilmore, 1932.
               
                     journals except that the society was active in the seventies
                    and eighties. On December 29, 1914, the young people of the church met and organized a Christian
                    Endeavor Society.31 This was discontinued about 1926. Since 1910 the church has
                    had an annual homecoming each spring, which is one of the big events of the year. At this time many
                    former pastors and members return to enjoy a day of preaching, Children's exercises,
                    feasting, and visiting.
            Today Blue River Chapel is a typical rural church located in what is normally a
                    prosperous farming community. In the fall of 1932, the Church held its centennial.32 Many former pastors returned to meet with the members of the church in special revival
                    services. The church stands today as a symbol of the idealism and religious zeal of the community.
                    Like all other rural churches, it does not possess the influence over the community which it
                    exercised in pioneer days. It has been compelled to divide its influence with the school, the press,
                    and other agencies. However, there is no doubt but what Kingdom Church has served as a leaven for
                    good. Hundreds of lives have been touched and made better through its influence. Blue
                        River Chapel is just one more of the many pioneer churches which have played their
                    part in the making of the Indiana of todoy.
            
               
                  31
                        Centennial Booklet. Services were held from October 12 to 16. On Sunday,
                        October 16, Dr. J. B. Persons (Superintendent of the 
                            White
                         River Conference) dedicated a tablet in the yard of the Chapel. This tablet states
                        that the church was a century old in 1832. It seems, however, to have been organized in 1831.
                        The old log church was probably built in 1832. If not, it must have been almost completed in
                        that year, since the Conference of 1832 arranged to meet at Kingdom Church in 1833.
            
         
         
         
            Early History of 
                        Vincennes
                     University
            By HOWARD R. BURNETT
            
            The legal basis for the organization of 
                        Vincennes
                     University is the wise provision of the Ordinance of 1787 that "Religion,
                    morality and knowledge, being necessary to good government and the happiness of mankind, schools and
                    the means of education shall forever be encouraged."1 This bit of
                    practical educational philosophy made possible in time the whole state system of higher education in
                    Indiana, which had its beginning with 
                        Vincennes
                     University, and later its development in Indiana University, Purdue University and the
                    Indiana State Teachers' Colleges.
            The authors of this remarkable provision are among the greatest educational benefactors of our land.
                    The great public school systems of all the states west of those on the Atlantic seaboard were
                    foreshadowed in this Ordinance.2 It was a kind of pledge by the 
                        United States
                     Government "to provide, encourage forever and maintain" schools and
                    the means of education in the Northwest Territory, of which 
                        Vincennes
                     was then one of the leading posts, and out of which Indiana was later carved.
            Events moved slowly in the educational affairs in the Northwest Territory for some years after 1787.
                    Not until after the formation of Indiana Territory does there seem to have been any concerted
                    movement toward educational development in the area embraced by the present state of Indiana. A
                    convention was called at 
                        Vincennes
                     on December 28, 1802, for the purpose of petitioning Congress for the desired changes
                    in the territorial laws. Among the various requests made by this convention in a petition to
                    Congress, is the following:3
                    
                        The 
                                United States
                             having pledged themselves in the Ordinance that schools and the means of
                            education shall forever be encouraged, and having in all the sales of land heretofore made,
                            reserved considerable portions thereof for that purpose.
                        Your memorialists, herefore humbly pray that a law may be passed 
                        
                           1Theodore Calvin Pease, Ed., Laws of the
                                        Northwest Territory 1788-1800 (
                                        Springfield
                                     1926). The Ordinance of 1787 is reproduced in full in this work, The
                                    paper was read before a general session of the Indiana History Conference at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     on Dec. 9, 1932.
                        
                           2
                                    
                                        Elwood
                                     P. Cubberly, Public Education in the 
                                            United States
                                        
                            (
                                        Cambridge
                                    , 1919). p. 25.
                        
                           3 Logan Esarey, Ed., 
                              
                                            Harrison
                                        's Messages and Letters, Vol. I (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. VIII), P. 64.
                     
                             making a grant of lands for the support of the Schools
                            and Seminaries of learning in the several Settlements in the 
                                Illinois
                            , the Settlement of 
                                Vincennes
                            , and that of 
                                Clark
                            's 
                                Grant
                            , near the Rapids of the 
                                Ohio
                            .
                    
            
            In response to this petition, Congress, on March 26, 1804, enacted a law which provided that the
                    public lands north of the 
                        Ohio
                     and east of the 
                        Mississippi
                     should be surveyed into townships six miles square; that three land offices should be
                    established in Indiana Territory, one at 
                        Detroit
                    , one at 
                        Vincennes
                    , and one at Kaskaskia; and that one entire township in each of the three land districts
                    should be located by the Secretary of the Treasury for the use of a seminary of learning.4
            
            In October, 1806, Albert Gallatin, at the suggestion of John Badollet of 
                        Vincennes
                    , selected the township to be set aside for the use of a seminary of learning which was
                    to be established in the 
                        Vincennes
                     district.5 The land selected is approximately that now occupied by 
                        Princeton
                    , seat of justice for 
                        Gibson
                     County, Indiana.
            In compliance with the terms of the Act of March 26, 1804, the Territorial Legislature, in session at 
                        Vincennes
                    , on November 29, 1806, passed an "Act to incorporate an University in Indiana
                    Territory to be known as the 
                        Vincennes
                     University, and to receive the township of land already set aside by Secretary Gallatin
                    for that purpose." This Act provided that "The first meeting of trustees shall be
                    held on the first Saturday in December next [1806] to elect officers and commence their operations
                    to carry said law into effect."6
            
            The charter of 
                        Vincennes
                     University, as contained in the Act of November 29, 1806, is a most interesting
                    document. The preamble sets out at length the reasons for establishing the University. The
                    institution provided for was to be known by "the name and style of the 
                        Vincennes
                     University" and was to have at the time of its organization, a board of
                    twenty-three trustees who were to have complete control of all the affairs of the University, and
                    who were "to have the powers 
                  
                     4
                            Annals of Congress, 8 Cons., 1 Sess., Appendix, pp. 1285-1293. The act is
                            given in full.
                  
                     5 Gallatin's letter appears in Indiana
                            Reports, Vol. II, p. 294.
                  
                     6
                            Laws of Indiana Territory (Revised by John Rice Jones and John
                                    
                        Johnson, Vincennes
                     , 1807), Ch. LXVII. There is an original copy of the
                            "Jones Revision" of the Territorial Laws of 1806 and 1807 bound with deer
                            thong, in the library at Indiana University. The act providing for 
                                Vincennes
                             University was approved by Gov. W. H. 
                                Harrison
                             on Nov. 29, 1806. The act was re-passed on Sept. 17, 1807.
               
                     and rights forever hereafter, a body politic and corporate; in
                    fact and in name—and shall be persons in law."7
            
            No more distinguished body of men could have been found in Indiana Territory than those who made up
                    the first board of trustees of 
                        Vincennes
                     University. They were headed by William Henry Harrison, governer of Indiana Territory.
                    His colleagues were John Gibson, Thomas Terry Davis, Henry Vanderburg, Waller Taylor, Benjamin
                    Parke, Peter Jones, James Johnson, John Badollet, John Johnson , John Rice Jones, George Wallace,
                    William Bullit, Elias McMamee, Henry Hurst, General Washington Johnston, Francis Vigo, Jacob
                    Kuykendall, Samuel McKee, Nathaniel Ewing, George Leech, Luke Decker, and Samuel Gwathmey.8 Almost without exception these were men whose active lives have had a lasting
                    influence upon the history of Indiana. Several of them were at sometime influential in matters of
                    national importance.
            Among the most important clauses of the charter of the University were these: 
                        That the said trustees shall as speedily as may be, establish and erect an University within
                            the limits of the Borough of 
                                Vincennes
                            , and shall appoint… a president and not exceeding four professors
                            for the instruction of youth in Latin, Greek, French, and English languages, Mathematics,
                            Natural Philosophy, Logic, ancient and modern History, Rhetoric and the law of Nature and
                                Nations.9
                  
                    
            
            It was the duty of the trustees to erect, purchase or hire suitable buildings for the University;
                    make rules for its government; establish plans of education to embrace the teaching of the
                    languages, arts and sciences; make rules governing admission and conduct of students; select a
                    president and such professors as in their judgment were qualified, and provide for their pay; to
                    visit and observe the work done in the University; to make an annual report to the legislature, and
                    "to do all lawful matters and things whatsoever necessary for the maintaining and
                    supporting of the institution—and for the more extensive communication of useful
                        knowledge."10
            
            They were also to make every effort to encourage the "aborigines" to send their
                    children to the University where, 
                  
                     7 The Charter of 
                                Vincennes
                             University is spread in full upon the Minutes of the Board of
                                Trustees of the 
                                    Vincennes
                                 University. Book II, at the back, and is identical with the copy in
                            the 1807 revision of the Territorial Laws.
                  
                     8 See Charter of 
                                Vincennes
                             University, Art. 3.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., Art. 6.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., Art. 8.
               
                     gratis, and at the expense of the University, they were to be
                    taught humanity and brotherly love.11 The trustees might, when they should think
                    the funds sufficient, establish a "school for females"12 and
                    also a grammar school in which would be taught the "rudiments of the
                        languages."13 The charter provided for a lottery by means of which
                    it was hoped sufficient additional funds could be raised to establish and maintain a library and
                    procure the necessary philosophical and experimental apparatus.14
            
            The first session of the board of trustees of the University was held at the office of John 
                        Gibson
                     on December 6, 1806, for the purpose of organizing and electing officers. William Henry
                    Harrison was elected president of the board, James 
                        Johnson
                    , treasurer, and General 
                        Washington
                     Johnston, clerk. Five managers were chosen to put the lottery scheme into operation.
                    Nothing more was done at this meeting.15
            
            Thus 
                        Vincennes
                     University dates its origin from December 6, 1806, ten years before Indiana became a
                    state, when the only roads out of 
                        Vincennes
                     were the "
                        Vincennes
                     Trace" from 
                        Louisville
                     through 
                        Vincennes
                     to Kaskaskia, and probably the "Red Banks Trace" to the south. Stage
                    coach communication between 
                        Vincennes
                     and 
                        Louisville
                     was not established until 1821, or fifteen years after the University was projected.16
            
            Late in December, 1806, at the instigation of William Henry Harrison, the board of trustees
                    inaugurated the first attempt to establish a grammar school as a department of the University.
                    Advertisements were authorized in the "public prints" of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     and in the Pittsburg Gazette for a teacher to take charge of the
                    grammar school.17 John Moore of 
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               , was the
                    first to answer this advertisement. His letter of application was ordered to be filed by the clerk
                    and no further mention can be found regarding the matter.18 This attempt to
                    establish a grammar school was dropped by the board in the spring of 1807.19
            
            
               
                  11
                        Ibid., Art. 11.
               
                  12
                        Ibid., Art. 13.
               
                  13
                        Ibid., Art. 14.
               
                  14
                        Ibid., Art. 15.
               
                  15
                        Trustees' Records, Dec. 6, 1806. The Trustees' Records
                        of the board of trustees of 
                            Vincennes
                         University are in the office of the President of 
                            Vincennes
                         University. They are practically complete from Dec. 6. 1806 to the present time.
               
                  16
                        
                            Vincennes
                        
                        Western Sun and General Advertiser, Apr. 7. 1821.
               
                  17
                        Trustees' Records, Dec. 15, 1806.
               
                  18
                        Ibid., April 6, 1807.
               
                  19
                        Ibid., June 9, 1807.
            
            
            Under the leadership of Benjamin 
                        Parke
                    , in July and August of 1807, an effort was made to establish a school in which would be
                    taught "the English language, rudiments of the Latin language, French, History, geography
                    and mathematics."20 Mr. 
                        Parke
                     reported that the cost of such a school would be about $640 per year, with
                    an additional cost of $350 per year for the teaching of French. Four subscription papers
                    were prepared and circulated throughout the town and country for "scholars" at a
                    tuition rate of "$16 per year for English, Latin, history, geography, and
                    mathematics and a just portion of the fuel, not to exceed one cord per scholar, and $10
                    per year for French." Little success was had in obtaining "scholars." In
                    fact, only five signed up for work.21
            
            The matter of establishing a school was revived by the board early in 1811. Arrangements were
                    completed by which a school, which was then being conducted by the Rev. Samuel T. 
                        Scott
                    , founder of the Presbyterian Church in 
                        Vincennes
                    , should be taken under the control of the board of trustees of 
                        Vincennes
                     University.22
            
            On Monday, May 11, 1811, the Rev. Samuel T. 
                        Scott
                     opened the first school ever held under the authority of the board of trustees of the
                    University. This was a grammar school only, but arrangements were made which permitted students of
                    Latin and Greek to be taught in a separate room from the common English
                    "scholars." Tuition at the rate of $18 per year was charged for each
                    "scholar" for instruction in English grammar, Latin, Greek, geography and
                    mathematics, payable quarterly in advance. The Rev. Mr. 
                        Scott
                     received for his services only the money collected from tuition charges. His school was
                    housed in the University building, then but partially completed.23
            
            This grammar school of 
                        Vincennes
                     University was continued under the direction of the Rev. 
                        Scott
                    , though never well supported, until his resignation in the summer of 1815.24 In November of the same year, Jesse Olds was employed by the board to conduct
                    the grammar school. Just what kind of school Mr. Olds taught is not clear. In the Records of the
                    Trustees 
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., July 18, 1807.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., Aug. 7, 1807.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., May 2, 1811.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., May 2, 1811 and Aug. 9, 1811.
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., Aug. 3, 1815.
               
                     it is sometimes called a "Latin School."25 By April, 1816, Olds was in full charge of the school with the pretentious
                    title of "Professor in 
                        Vincennes
                     University."26 For some reason not known, the
                    "Professor" severed his connection with the University in 1816, and the Rev. 
                        Scott
                     again took charge27 until his resignation in the spring of 1818.28 A certain Mr. Bennett conducted an English school in the University building
                    during a part of 1818.29 The Rev. Jean Jean was in charge of the University for
                    some time during the summer of 1818, but just how long, or what kind of school he conducted can not
                    be determined with accuracy.30 Apparently, there is no further record of any
                    school at 
                        Vincennes
                     University until 1823.
            An effort to revive the University was made by the trustees late in 1823. The Rev.
                    Henry Moore Shaw, an Episcopal clergyman, was elected President of "the
                    Institution," the first man to be so designated by the trustees. He was given complete
                    control of the building and was authorized to open a school in it. As president of the college he
                    was personally to conduct the education of youth under the superintendence of the board of
                        trustees.31 President Shaw opened his school in December, 1823,32 and continued to teach in the University until after it became the 
                        Knox
                     County Seminary in 1824. All the schools carried on under the authority of the trustees
                    of 
                        Vincennes
                     University before 1824 were of grammar school status or under. No work of collegiate
                    rank was given in the University until long after this date.
            It was in February 1807, that the board of trustees of 
                        Vincennes
                     University purchased a building site of Henry Vanderburg for $200.33 Immediately after the purchase of this site, the board of trustees began
                    preparations to erect a college building. Contracts for some materials were made early in 1807, and
                    plans were drawn for the new building.34 By January, 1808, the contract was let
                    for the building which was 
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., Nov. 18, 1815.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., April 1, 1816.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., Dec. 24, 1816.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., April 6, 1818.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., Dec. 15, 1818.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun and General Advertiser, Aug. 1, 1818.
                  
                     31
                            Trustees' Records, Monday, October [?], 1823.
                  
                     32
                            
                                Vincennes
                            
                            Western Sun and Advertiser, Dec. 20, 1823.
                  
                     33
                            
                                Knox
                             County Deed Record, A (Index), Vanderburg to Trustees of 
                                Vincennes
                             University.
                  
                     34
                            Trustees' Records, April 6, 1807.
               
                     begun in the spring of 1808.35 Some rooms
                    were ready for use by August, 1811,36 but the entire building was not finished
                    till 1820.37
            
            In the meantime, as already stated, parts of the building had been used for school purposes by the
                    Rev. 
                        Scott
                    , Mr. Olds, Mr. Bennett, and the Rev. Jean Jean. The total cost of this building was
                    approximately $5,000. It contained a "cellar" and first and second
                    floors. The first floor contained an "eating room," a "lecture and
                    exhibition room," and two smaller rooms. The second floor had in all nine rooms of various
                        sizes.38 This building was owned by the University until 1839 when it was
                    purchased by the Catholic College of 
                        Vincennes
                    .39 It was subsequently razed and the present St. Rose Academy
                    building erected on the ground upon which it formerly stood.
            From 
                        Vincennes
                     and its environs in 1806, and for some years later, a college could expect little or no
                    financial support from tuition. At a tuition charge of $18 per year per student, little
                    money could be collected. Furthermore, very little revenue could be raised from the sale or lease of
                    the lands in the seminary township. One of the most pressing and difficult problems of the young
                    University was that of securing sufficient funds for maintenance, operation and expansion. To this
                    problem the trustees early turned their attention.
            The board first attempted to raise money through the lottery scheme authorized in the fifteenth
                    section of the University Charter. The proposed scheme adopted by the board provided for the sale of
                    eight thousand lottery tickets from which the University was to realize a net profit of
                    $20,000. The tickets were printed and offered for sale in Indiana, 
                  Kentucky, Tennessee
               , and by Benjamin 
                        Parke
                    , Territorial Delegate, in 
                        Washington
                    .40 The tickets did not sell "even when offered on
                    credit," and the board, after trying the scheme for a year, recalled all tickets and
                    abandoned the attempt to raise money by a lottery.41 Their experiment left them
                    indebted to the extent of $84.75, which was the cost of their effort to raise 
                  
                     35
                            Ibid., Jan. 9, 1808.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., Aug. 9, 1811.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., June 21, 1820. On this date, the board of trustees made provisions
                            for paying the contractors for all the work done on the building up to that time and to
                            release them from further responsibility to the board.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., Aug. 30, 1811.
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., Oct. 22, 1839.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., Sept. 12, 1807.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., Oct. 16, 1807.
               
                     funds for an educational purpose through conducting a lottery.
            As a means of raising money for the University, the sale of 
                        Gibson
                     County lands was of little immediate value. Under the terms of the Charter, only four
                    thousand acres could be sold for immediate use. These were sold for less than enough to pay for the
                    erection of the building,42 while lands leased were let on, terms that brought
                    in almost no returns to the University.43 A petition to Congress in 1817,
                    praying permission to sell the remainder of the lands at not less than $10 per acre, was
                    refused upon the grounds that it was inexpedient for the University to sell more than the four
                    thousand acres at that time.44
            
            Thus matters rested until January, 1820, when the General Assembly of Indiana, in session at Corydon,
                    appropriated the 
                        Gibson
                     County lands then remaining unsold, to the use of the State.45 They
                    were subsequently given to the State Seminary at 
                        Bloomington
                    . This act took from 
                        Vincennes
                     University all its lands and left it with no means of support except tuition which was
                    at that time almost, it not entirely, non-existent. With meager income, a small faculty, few
                    students and little community support, 
                        Vincennes
                     University was in a fair way to die in the prolonged period of birth.
            The last recorded meeting of the board of trustees of 
                        Vincennes
                     University for the period covered by this paper (1806-1824) was held on April 24, 1824.
                    No business was transacted, and adjournment was taken until the first Tuesday of the following
                        June.46 This June meeting, so far as the records show, was never held.
            In the meantime, the General Assembly, in an effort to save the University, passed an act by which
                    the University could become the 
                        Knox
                     County Seminary, and, as such, receive the County seminary funds. 
                        Vincennes
                     University, under the terms of this Act, became the 
                        Knox
                     County Seminary in 1824 and the first period of its history came to an end.
            
               
                  42
                        Ibid., Various dates Dec. 15, 1806 to Jan. 7, 1817.
               
                  43
                        Ibid., Nov. 15, 1817.
               
                  44
                        American State Papers, Public Lands, Vol. III (No. 267), p. 266.
               
                  45
                        Laws of Indiana, 4th Session 1820 (
                            Jeffersonville
                        , 1820), p. 160.
               
                  46
                        Trustees' Records, April 24, 1824.
            
         
         
         
            Stories That Old Houses Tell
            By JULIA LECLERC KNOX
            
            Old houses in various stages of decay or decrepitude have a pathetically human appeal. Windowless
                    casements are suggestive of empty eye-sockets in a human skull—an eloquent epitome of all
                    the significance of the phrase, "has been."
            On the river front of the "upper grade" at 
                        Vevay
                    , Indiana, is an old two-story brick home where I used to play with a childhood friend.
                    Then houses were simply houses to me. For some time past, however, thoughts of that old building
                    have haunted me. I have tried to recall and knit together the things that I know about
                    it—memories more or less tennous, floating about in my subconscious mind.
            From an old friend, Mrs. Nora Lewis Duprez, who is a sort of repository of much of the romance of 
                        Vevay
                    's history, I have obtained bits of information which I have pieced together
                    to supplement my own knowledge. This old house was built about ten years before the Civil War by a
                    rich Englishman by the name of Joshua Smithson. Through all the changing years and various
                    occupancies, the old home has always been known as the "Joshua Smithson Place."
                    Smithson started the first coal business in 
                        Vevay
                    . He was a Universalist and, with two-thirds of his estate, endowed a college where
                    students of his denomination might obtain an education. To the endowment, Mrs. Smithson, after the
                    death of her husband added the whole of her inheritance, which was valued at several thousands of
                    dollars. The institution was located at 
                        Logansport
                     on a high bluff overlooking the common valley of the 
                        Wabash
                     and its tributary, the Eel River.1 This worthy
                        
                  
                            
                        1 An early catalogue of Smithson College states: "Although
                                not the largest contributors Mr. and Mrs. Smithson were the first and hence became
                                entitled to have their names permanently attached to the institution." This
                                catalogue (1872-3) was probably the first one issued for in it I find that "the
                                building is not quite finished." It describes at some length how complete the
                                structure was to be in every detail "when the designs are rounded out"
                                and "that every care has been taken to produce the most perfect college edifice
                                in the west." Hopeful, old builders, proud and happy in your self-sacrifice 1
                                No doubt YOU thought YOU were building forever and who knows but what you did in the
                                life purposes of at least some of the students even if the school, itself, did not see
                                the stars out, as no doubt you fondly hoed?
                            The catalogue adds that the building is "arranged to board two hundred pupils of
                                both sexes." "A Lady Principal" who will have especial care
                                of the young ladies, is naively mentioned. Board and light, fuel and laundry were all to
                                be had for the modest sum of five dollars a week and tuition for all regular courses was
                                ten dollars per term. Carpets seem to have come extra. Stress is somewhat severely
                                placed on this and also on the fact that each student must be altogether responsible for
                                his own soap.
                            It is interesting to note that a commercial course was included at that early date rind
                                that the range of studies was broad, embracing mathematics, science, ancient and modern
                                languages, music. art, some history and English, all of which was to be administered by
                                a staunch little band of seven as a faculty.
                            This catalogue contains the names of two 
                                    Vevay
                                 pupils of Universalist families: 
                        
               
                     couple had no children of their own but were profoundly
                    interested in the education of sons and daughters of others of the Universalist faith.
            Joshua Smithson did not forget 
                        Vevay
                    , his home, but left a sum of money to be used in the construction of a church for the
                    Universalists of the community. The congregation which worshipped in the edifice so generously
                    provided "waxed fine in degrees and visibly less," a thing which the donor of the
                    church fund may have feared since his bequest carried a special proviso. This was to the effect that
                    should it turn out that the building could not be kept for the designated purpose, it was to be sold
                    and the proceeds turned over to the College at 
                        Logansport
                    . Though the church had to be sold, it was impossible to carry out the above mentioned
                    stipulation for the reason that the college faded out before the sale of the church.2
            
            As my mind runs over the life of Mr. Smithson, I feel like exclaiming: "Bravo, old Joshua!
                    You kept the home fires burning for the good people of 
                        Vevay
                     with your coalyard and at the same time left an endowment to uphold the torch of
                    learning and religion in the adopted state of your foster country. Nor should I forget to express
                    gratitude to you, Mrs. Joshua, who so loyally followed your husband in the support of his high
                    purpose."
            On a July evening of last summer, I wandered down to that once picturesque "upper
                    grade," now utilized for corn fields, accompanied by a friend, Mrs. Kathryn Leitch, who,
                    although she did not share my memories, was a keenly sympathetic companion. Walking slowly over a
                    winding dirt road, I made my way after a lapse of many years to the Smithson home to revive happy
                    childhood memories. The house, alas, 
                  the late Hon. George S. Pleasants, prominent lawyer of southern Indiana and Loren H.
                            Smith, son of the Reverend 
                                Israel
                             Smith, a minister of the Universalist denomination. Mrs. Ella Maxwell Meyers of 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , through whom I gained access to the catalogue, was entered in the
                            Philosophical Course, whatever that may have meant, which certainly was something quite
                            different from what it means now, 88 it was provided for the Freshman Class. [The
                                statements in the catalogue relative to the building were correct. It was a large
                                structure of four stories, equipped with offices, recitation rooms. an assembly hall,
                                large dining hall and kitchen, and many rooms of reasonable size for the use of
                                students. Everything was under one roof. Students were obliged: to carry all the water
                                used in their rooms from a well or cistern in the college yard. Those who were domiciled
                                on the third or fourth floor were at considerable inconvenience. The Editor spent about a week in a room on the third floor of this building shortly
                                after being graduated from the Delphi High School. The institution was then known 88 the
                                American Normal College, this being a short-lived school that made use of the building
                                following the period of the Smithson College. The building was destroyed by fire in the
                                nineties].
                  
                  
                     2 The church building was sold to the Christian Congregation and still
                            belongs to that denomination. What was done with the money, I do not know.
               
                     has now fallen far from its former high estate, but like an old
                    grandame "sans teeth," etc., it still preserves a bit of the grand air.
            Those who dwell in the old home today are humble folk from somewhere across the 
                        Ohio
                     in 
                        Kentucky
                    . The front door can no longer be entered as the high stone steps have disappeared. At
                    our approach a dog barked, children's faces appeared at the door and we half feared that
                    the dog might be allowed to drive us away. Instead we were asked to "come around the
                    house" where by fragile, temporary, wooden steps we reached the latticed back porch. Here
                    we were welcomed by a woman, two boys of ten and twelve, and a demure little maiden of three. There
                    was an aged grandmother, too, who kept her seat, but was cordial, nevertheless, as Kentuckians of
                    whatever age or condition so well know how to be.
            We were allowed to make a tour of the rooms of the lower floor, but it gave me a queer catch in the
                    throat to contrast the now with the then. Still the old hall,
                    that runs straight through the middle of the building which is two-rooms deep, seemed almost human
                    in its determination to keep up a bold front in spite of adversity. The front parlor on the right,
                    long bereft of its former state, aristocratic horse-hair furniture and all, had sunk to the level of
                    a mere bedroom thus becoming no better than the room just behind it. On the left of the hall, the
                    large cheerful living room yet retained, though its past glory had departed, its wonderful view of
                    the hills and more distant lands beyond. The old room reminded me somehow of persons whose optimism
                    is so fine that nothing can destroy it. Just behind the living room was the room now used
                    continuously as the kitchen, the old days of the lean-to summer kitchen having passed with the
                    coming of oil and gas stoves.
            Stepping back into the hall again, it was almost more than I could do to resist the invitation of the
                    beckoning stairway to go up to the four large, airy rooms, where we used to play when the weather
                    did not charm us out to make mud-pies and bake them in the furnaces that we were able to contrive. I
                    almost heard, or seemed to hear, the voice of the little girl, Abby, calling to
                    me—"Come on up. We are waiting for you." The years between held me back
                    and the sacks and junk piled  on the steps stayed me, but I
                    thought wistfully of the soul of Abby who has been waiting up yonder these many
                    years.
            Somewhat overcome with memories of the past my mind returned to the present and I went out in the
                    yard. Uncared for or converted into vast bunch-bean gardens at front and side, the beauty of other
                    days was gone, but as our hostess proudly pointed out there was "nary a weed" in
                    the garden plots. When in childhood I played about this old place with little Abby, I never heard of
                    Joshua Smithson or what he did for the uplift of Universalist youths (Little children, absorbed in
                    the demands of dolls and toys, take no heed of such things), so my pilgrimage to the house-he-built
                    must make amends and express my gratitude to him and his relict, as well as furnish me a glance
                    backward towards my lost early girlhood.
            Joshua Smithson and another Englishman, a Mr. Cookson, married sisters by the name of Goddard,
                    cousins of Mrs. Sarah Northcott Patton, who in turn was an aunt of Mrs. Nora Duprez. Cookson was a
                    younger son of a noble family with no hope of the title, who came to America to make his fortune.
                    Instead he lost what he had in unprofitable business ventures. He and Smithson first started woolen
                    mills above the town of Ghent in 
                        Kentucky
                    , but lost heavily. In later years Cookson was found serving in a more or less menial
                    position in the woolen mills owned and operated by the Schofields of 
                        Vevay
                    .
            The Cookson ancestral home in 
                        England
                     was in the 
                        Lake
                     District and the younger son who came to 
                        Vevay
                     had known personally the poets of the 
                        Lake
                     School and other famous people. Mrs. Patton was shown letters and pictures of the
                    Cookson estate which proved the truth of these claims, but it was the fate of the young man who came
                    to America full of hope to end his career on a minor note. His misfortune inspires a feeling of
                    sympathy and pity, not only for him, but for all who fail because of unpreparedness or from a too
                    generous trust imposed in others.
            Not far from the Smithson house was another old mansion of the long ago. It was always called the
                    McMakin Home though it was built by Vincent & four. This young man was the only child of
                    John James Dufour, eldest of the Dufour family who came to. America from 
                        Switzerland
                    . He founded 
                        Vevay
                     in Switzerlard County in 1799 naming the place from a city in his native country. Young
                    Vincent, who was  trained in a military school in 
                        France
                    , was at twenty-eight a captain in the army. He knew nothing of money making, but as his
                    father did and he was the only heir, he got on very well. He was captain of the company of Swiss
                    Artillery of 
                        Vevay
                     that went to 
                        Cincinnati
                     to welcome Marquis de 
                        Lafayette
                     on his visit to this country in 1824. Captain Dufour was introduced to the famous
                    general by his father who had known 
                        Lafayette
                     in 
                        France
                     and the Marquis did him the honor to say that his company was the most active in
                    artillery tactics of any company he had met on that trip to America.
            When the Captain built his home in 
                        Vevay
                     there was a Dufour in 
                        Paris
                     who was a famous designer of wall paper and so Vincent and his good wife, Annie, sent
                    there for the paper for their hall. It depicted a series of hunting scenes and was a great marvel to
                    the good citizens of 
                        Vevay
                    . It lasted, strange to say, almost as long as the house. The writer remembers to have
                    been taken there as a child to see that wonderful paper which at that time, swayed from the walls,
                    in places like tapestry in a breeze. The place was then deserted and the rooms seemed sad and
                    haunted by the life of the past. Later when I read DeQuincy's description of the
                    abandoned old house in 
                        London
                     where he took refuge in the time of his run-away, vagrant boyhood, thoughts of this old
                    place near 
                        Vevay
                     came to mind.
            The shadow of misfortune brooded over that roof-tree in the more or less tragically ended lives of
                    the family of McMakins but, as great writers sometimes say in books—"all that is
                    another story." A daughter of the house, the last to live there, was at one time in her
                    young womanhood said to be the village belle; the prettiest girl in 
                        Vevay
                     who spent money like "a house afire." The oldest inhabitants still
                    tell about her attending an Inaugural Ball in 
                        Washington
                    , and her white satin gown worn on that occasion was the talk of the town for years. In
                    some unexplainable way the threads of her life became inextricably entangled and she finally sank to
                    a marriage much beneath her social level, as a consequence of which she became lost to her former
                    friends. I still retain a faint memory of her pathetic, violet-purple eyes and the tremulous lips of
                    her ill-fated old age which inspired an incredulous wonder at the reputed triumphs of her youth.
            These two stately old houses faced the Ohio River and  along their front ran the "upper grade," a dignified
                    stretch of beach, lined with beech trees, that as children, innocent of the mysterious intricacies
                    of the black art of spelling, we used to think achieved their name from the fact that they grew on
                    the beach. Along this path, those citizens who loved "Old Man Ribber" and his
                    moods used to stroll, in family groups on Sunday afternoons. The "Old Man" in his
                    spring freshet showed no respect for these houses but rose in his might against them, flooding them
                    to the upper story and yet they calmly and patiently kept their poise, emerging from these
                    onslaughts, apparently not much the worse for their contact with the raging floods, so well had the
                    pioneers builded.
            Gone is the beach, either washed away by the waters or hidden by the cornfields and underbrush. Gone
                    is the old Mc-Makin House and the famous wall paper, the pride of fair Annie Dufour's
                    heart and the wonder of the town. Long dismantled and deserted, haunted by derelicts, the midnight
                    scene of suspected orgies, a disgrace to the pioneer citizens who built it, it was swept away in a
                    purifying blaze, kindled no doubt, by the carelessness of some vagrant's hand. It
                    resisted for years the violence of water only to meet its destined end as the victim of fire. And so
                    its tale is told. The old Joshua Smithson House deprived of its companions still courageously faces
                    sturdy old age with what seems almost human fortitude.
         
         
         
            The Indiana Historical Society
            By CHRISTOPHER B. COLEMAN
            
            The Historical Society Pilgrimage
            The annual pilgrimage of the Indiana Historical Society, to which members of the Society of Indiana
                    Pioneers are also invited, was conducted this year as a trip by railroad to the Cen= ted,tury of
                    Progress at 
                        Chicago
                    . The party left the 
                        Union
                     Station at 
                        Indianapolis
                     at 10:45 Tuesday morning, June 13, and re turning, arrived at 
                        Indianapolis
                     at 5:30 Thursday afternoon, June 15.
            In 
                        Chicago
                     the party stayed at the Hotel Del Prado, Hyde Park Boulevard Chicagoand Fifty-third
                    St., where it was joined by a number who came to 
                        Chicago
                     by automobile. Altogether there were seventy-five or more persons who participated.
                    Tuesday afternoon and Wednesday morning some of the members attended afternoonthe American
                    Association of Museums at the 
                        Chicago
                     Historical Society and the Academy of Natural Science respectively, both in 
                        Lincoln
                     Park. A number of the party stayed longer in 
                        Chicago
                     to spend more time in the new building of the 
                        Chicago
                     Historical Society.
            The Indiana exhibit, with the striking mural painting by Thomas H. 
                        Benton
                     depicting the development of the state, was as an interesting meeting place for the
                    party which otherwise separated, interesting each going his own way through the Century of Progress.
                    The Society was favored by a cool spell of weather which made conditions ideal during the whole of
                    the trip. It was generally voted one of the most pleasant, interesting; and successful of all the
                    pilgrimages of the Society.
            The office of the Indiana Historical Society on June 20 was moved, with the Historical Bureau, into
                    the new State Library and Historical Building, Senate Avenue and 
                        Ohio
                     Street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The Historical Bureau will have the northeast corner of the top floor. The building is
                    not yet completed but the former office at 334 State House had to be given up as part of the change
                    incident to the creation of the Gross Income and Sales Tax Bureau.
            The William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society has asquired from the
                    Borden Collection,  a copy of the first English edition of
                    Audubon's Birds of America. This is a rarity among collectors and is
                    believed to be the only set in the state.
            Glenn A. Black, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , is conducting field work this summer for the Archaeological Section of the Society. He
                    is making a survey of 
                        Dearborn
                     County and part of the surrounding area. The southeastern part of Indiana is tied very
                    closely in its prehistory with southwestern 
                        Ohio
                     and that part of 
                        Kentucky
                     lying across the river from these two sections. It is not unlikely that Mr. Black will
                    discover interesting cultural connections between the prehistory of the inhabitants of this section
                    of the state and tribes whose remains have been studied more intensively and are better known.
            E. Y. Guernsey, of 
                        Bedford
                    , is making for the Society an archaeological and historical survey of 
                        Clark
                     County. His report will probably be published as a regular number of the Indiana History Bulletin, forming an addition to the series which now contain surveys of
                            
                  Lawrence, Washington, Parke, Randolph, Porter, and Greene
                            counties
               .
         
         
         
            Documents
            HOME LETTERS OF GEORGE W. JULIAN, 1850-1851
            Foreword
            By GRACE JULIAN CLARKE
            
            On December 10th, 1849, George W. Julian, Free Soiler, and newly elected Member of Congress from the
                    fourth congressional district of Indiana, sometimes called the Burnt District,1
                    set out from his home in 
                        Centerville
                     for 
                        Washington
                    , accompanied by his wife, Anne Elizabeth (Finch) Julian. The journey occupied nine
                    days, and was by carriage to 
                        Cincinnati
                     (Mr. Julian's brother, Jacob Burnet Julian, accompanying them thus far),
                    thence by steamboat to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , and from there over the mountains by stage.2 On arriving in the
                    capital city, they went directly to the 
                        United States
                     Hotel, finding quarters later at the boarding house of Mrs. Spriggs on the north side
                    of the Public Grounds facing the Capitol, where Joshua R. Giddings and Charles 
                        Allen
                    , Representatives from 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Massachusetts
                    , respectively, were already established. With these two men of the same political
                    faith, Julian was intimately associated during the ensuing two years. Although born in the preceding
                    century and therefore considerably older than himself, they seem to have felt an unusual interest in
                    the younger man from the Hoosier state who was the sole representative from his state of the growing
                    Free Soil movement that was destined to play havoc with both the Whig and Democratic parties within
                    the ensuing decade. Julian always looked back upon this association with grateful appreciation. With
                    Giddings the tie was destined to be a close one. Of Charles 
                        Allen
                    , it is sufficient here to mention the estimate of him by Senator George F. Hoar of 
                        Massachusetts
                    
                    
                  
                     1 The fourth district, or "Burnt District," at this
                            time, included four counties—
                        Fayette,
                                    Henry, Union
                      and 
                                Wayne
                            . Though the terms of members of the national How legally began on March 4,
                            1849, Indiana did not elect the members of the thirty-first Congress till August of that
                            year. The same situation prevailed two years later when the Congressional elections in
                            Indiana were held in August. 1851, and not in 1850. Democrats combined with Free Soilers to
                            elect George W. Julian over the Whig candidate, Samuel W. Parker, in 1849. See Indiana Magazine of History, XXVII (June, 1931), 119-124, for an article,
                            "The Burnt District," by Grace Julian Clarke: and 
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Valley Historical Review, XI (December, 1924), 319-331 for a paper,
                            Antislavery Tendencies of the Democratic Party in the Northwest from the Election of Taylor
                            to the Crisis of 1850," by William O. Lynch.
                  
                     2 Mrs. Julian died eleven years later. Mr. Julian's second
                            wife was Laura A. Giddings (the mother of Grace Julian Clarke), younger daughter of Joshua
                            R. Giddings, a child of ten years in 1849. See footnote 84, below, for matter relative to
                            trips to and from 
                                Washington
                            .
               
                     who called him the ablest man, intellectually, he had ever
                    known, "not excepting Daniel Webster."3
            
            Congress had convened more than two weeks earlier, Mr. Julian's presence having been
                    delayed by a serious illness caused from over-work in the campaign. He had suffered several
                    hemorrhages of the lungs for which physicians had "cupped" him "in
                    fifty-seven places" and applied croton oil copiously. In spite of this heroic treatment and
                    the exhausting journey he was able to take his seat in the House on the very day of his arrival. He
                    was then thirty-two years of age, while Mrs. Julian was twenty-two. They had left a three-years-old
                    son at home with his grandmother.
            About three weeks later, Mrs. Julian went with a friend, Miss Sarah Pope, on a visit to the home of
                    the latter in the vicinity of 
                        Boston
                    . There she remained till the middle of February when she rejoined her husband in 
                        Washington
                    , returning to 
                        Centerville
                     early in June. Congress did not adjourn till the last of September, having sat almost
                    ten months. This was the first session of the memorable thirty-first Congress, which passed the
                    famous Compromise measures. Those which were concessions to slaveholders were opposed by the few
                    Free Soil members with as much force as they could muster, but of course vainly. It was in this
                    Congress that 
                        Clay
                    , Webster and Calhoun appeared together for the last time, while among the new members
                    of the Senate were William H. Seward of 
                        New York
                     and Salmon P. Chase of 
                        Ohio
                    .
            The letters that follow were written to Mrs. Julian during her New 
                        England
                     visit and after her return to 
                        Centerville
                    . Their only interest lies in the side-lights they cast on the life of the time. They
                    contain few references to public affairs, probably because Mr. Julian was sending weekly letters
                    dealing with the political situation to The Indiana True Democrat, published by
                    Rawson Vaile at 
                        Centerville
                    .
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                ,
                           
                                     Jan. 9, 1860
                                
                        I this morning received your letter and am gratified that you got along so safely and
                                    pleasantly on your journey.
                        The day after you left a beautiful card came inviting you to attend the 
                                        Washington
                                     Assemblies, or balls in other words. So now if you wish 
                              
                                 3 George F. Hoar, Autobiography of
                                                Seventy Years (
                                                New York
                                             1903) II, 408 
                                                Allen
                                             left the Whig party at the time of the nomination of Taylor in
                                            1818. He was fifty-three years of age in 1850. Giddings was also a Whig
                                            leader who turned Free Soiler. He was fifty-five years old in 1850.
                           
                                     to dance, come back. We are still engaged in
                                    organizing the House, balloting for clerk at present, a tedious business.
                        The day before yesterday Mrs. Underwood sent her sweet little bog to the House to
                                    inquire how I was and if I had heard from you. He said his mother said that if I got
                                    sick and wanted anything, to let her know and she would attend to it. Yesterday Mr.
                                    and Mrs. Underwood4 sent their cards and I am going over there
                                    after adjournment.
                        My kind regards to Miss Sally Pope and tell her I shall expect both
                                    of my daughters to write me occasionally! Her special regards were delivered over to
                                    Mr. Giddings this morning, who seemed pleased to hear from his young Free Soil
                                    friend.
                        Don't fail to go to 
                                        Boston
                                    , Quincy, and if practicable to Plymouth. Be sure to attend the old
                                    Federal Street church in 
                                        Boston
                                     and see the large portraits of Channing,5
                                        Buckminster,6 &c. When you decide on the time of
                                    your visit to 
                                        Boston
                                     write me immediately. 
                        6 o'clock.
                        I went to Mr. Underwood's and found them as usual, very kind, and send you
                                    their good wishes. They are much attached to Sarah.7
                        
                        I was very lonely after you left, but am growing a little accustomed to the state of
                                    single blessedness. Don't fail to write promptly and often.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Jan. 17, 1850
                                
                        I am much pleased with the account you give of the Pope family and do not think you
                                    need apologise as to your descriptive powers. I have now more curiosity than ever to
                                    visit their hospitable Yankee home and judge for myself of New 
                                        England
                                     life. Give my kind regards to my friend Sally and also to her father
                                    and that venerable grandmother who wished to be remembered in your letter. I will
                                    each day send a document to Mr. Pope and through him to you all.
                        The organization of the House is still uncompleted. We are now balloting for
                                    door-keeper, a dreary business. There are no strange things to report. There is to
                                    be a ball tonight at 
                                        Jackson
                                     Hall. Last night I attended the lecture at the Smithsonian Institution.
                                    The large and beautiful room was filled to a perfect jam and it holds a thousand
                                    persons. The lecture, by Rev. George W. Bethune of 
                                        Philadelphia
                                    ,8 on Holland, was able and eloquent and I mean to
                                    attend these gatherings regularly.
                        A few days ago I wrote to Uncle Frederick9 and stated that you
                                    would write to them from New 
                                        England
                                    , so you must be sure and defend 
                              
                                 4 These were the grandparents of Dr. Robert Underwood 
                                                Johnson
                                            , poet, editor, and Ambassador to 
                                                Italy
                                            , and of Hon. Henry U. 
                                                Johnson
                                             of 
                                                Richmond
                                             who many years later represented the fourth Indiana district in
                                            Congress (1891-1899).
                              
                                 5 William Ellery Channing, 1780-1842, Famous Unitarian
                                            divine, pastor of the Federal Street church, 
                                                Boston
                                            .
                              
                                 6 Joseph Stevens Buckminster (1784-1812), brilliant
                                            young Unitarian minister of Brattle Street church, 
                                                Boston
                                            .
                              
                                 7 Miss Sarah Pope had been a guest in the Underwood
                                            home while in 
                                                Washington
                                            .
                              
                                 8 George W. Bethune, noted pulpit orator of the Dutch
                                            Reformed Church. A staunch Democrat, opposed alike to slavery and
                                            abolitionism. Published the first American edition of Walton's
                                                Complete Angler, but anonymously, because of public
                                            feeling against the propriety of such a book by a clergyman.
                              
                                 9 Frederick Hoover, son of Andrew and brother of Mr.
                                            Julian's mother, Rebecca Hoover Julian.
                           
                                     me against the charge of prevarication. Since
                                    writing I have a letter from him enclosing a pamphlet from Lucretia Mott.10 By the way, &c you have left my bed and board and
                                    Congress is not doing much, I have a notion one of these days to go to 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     to see the said Lucretia and other great persons and things in that
                                    city. But I will advise you definitely later.
                        Mr. Giddings and the rest of us have pleasant times, particularly at We. I hear his
                                    kind and mellow voice every day in answer to a knock at his door, saying
                                    "K-e-m!" We are together a great deal and I walk with him and the
                                    Judge [
                                        Allen
                                    ] daily.
                        Your letters are excellent, and you know I never flatter. You leave out and mis-spell
                                    a word occasionally, but the grammar and language are very good.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Jan. 19, 1850
                                
                        I am truly pleased to hear of your many enjoyments and rare sports, but a little
                                    afraid you will get to be too gay, considering that you are the wife of the sober
                                    and priestly personage who embodies the dignity and wisdom of the "Burnt
                                    District" in Congress!
                        I will inform Mr. Giddings at once of the time you expect to be in 
                                        Boston
                                     and the place at which you will stop, so that he may write to such
                                    persons as he may see fit. I hope you will have a rich harvest of pleasure and
                                    profit in your visit there. Judge 
                                        Allen
                                     is now at his home in 
                                        Worcester
                                     and will be there for a week or two. I presume you will see him. I will
                                    inform Mr. Bigelow of your interview with his sister which will please him. Write
                                    often, and when you reach 
                                        Boston
                                     don't fail to advise me of your movements, the sights you
                                    see, &c.
                        Later—Mr. Giddings has written to Dr. Bowditch and Mr. Palfrey11 about your visit to 
                                        Boston
                                     and I presume they or their ladies will call on you.
                        I should like to see you with your new merino dress on: I know you look pretty. In
                                    fact, I would rather see you than not, any time, but I would not hurry you away from
                                    your pleasures.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Feb. 2, 1850
                                
                        Your letter from 
                                        Lowell
                                     of date Jan. 30th is just received and I am delighted to hear of your
                                    continued pleasure in your visits to interesting places, and yet I can hardly help
                                    feeling a little envious when I think how much you are getting ahead of me. I long
                                    to see you and to hear all about your adventures in detail, and regret that you
                                    could not have told me a little more about them in your letter.
                                    You have not told me what you think of my proposal to meet you in 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     either. On last Sunday I wrote a line to Mrs. Mott to find out if she
                                    would be at home during this month and suggesting that I might meet you there on
                                    your 
                              
                                 10 Antislavery and woman's suffrage leader.
                                            Minister in the Society of Friends.
                              
                                 11 Dr. Henry Ingersoll Bowditch, noted physician and
                                            abolitionist of 
                                                Massachusetts
                                            . The death d his son in the Civil War led him to write
                                            "A Brief Plea for an Ambulance System for the Army of the 
                                                United States
                                            ," and the feeling aroused by this publication led the
                                            Government to establish an Ambulance unit trained to care for the wounded.
                                            John O. Palfrey, Unitarian minister, was the author of A
                                                History of New 
                                                    England
                                                
                                 , anti-slavery Whig Member of Congress, 1847-1849, and
                                            mess-mate of Giddings at this time.
                           
                                     return. I have received a very pretty answer
                                    cordially inviting us to her home, and I think I shall carry out
                                    the plan unless something very important should be before Congress at the time you
                                    set for coming.12 I have a nice letter from Mrs. Vaile13 in which she complains of not having had a line from either
                                    you or Sarah since you left 
                                        Centerville
                                    . I think she has cause for complaint. Mr. Vaile has been quite sick,
                                    but was mending. I also enclose a line from Cy14 being my latest
                                    advice from home. I am getting very anxious to see our dear little Channing.15. I have bought him a beautiful gift which I will send by the
                                    first opportunity.
                        I have recently formed some interesting acquaintances from 
                                        Massachusetts
                                    . Have also been introduced to Mrs. Judge McLean, a most lovely woman,
                                    and have had a visit from the Judge himself.16
                        
                        Last night I attended the President's Levee and was impressed with the
                                    splendor of the gay throng that promenaded through the halls, all in the richest and
                                    most gaudy attire. I saw many very fine, or finely dressed, ladies, but very few
                                    handsome ones. I want you to come back and go with me: I know that you would
                                    outshine them all. Besides, gentlemen, as mere onlookers, can't enjoy
                                    these gatherings much. I saw Mrs. Southworth in the crowd. I thought her homely when
                                    I first saw her, but have changed my mind.17
                        
                        Mrs. Mott writes that the secretary of their antislavery society, a Mr. McKim, was
                                    introduced to you in 
                                        Boston
                                    . Among my new 
                                        Massachusetts
                                     friends is a Mr. J. N. Buffum of Lynn, now here on business, an
                                    intelligent, pleasant and decidedly antislavery man. He says his wife Ruth will call
                                    on you in Lynn, and I have promised to visit him when I go East.
                        I wonder when you mean to come back to 
                                        Washington
                                    , if ever. It will soon be six weeks since you departed. I think I will
                                    give up the 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     trip. Judge 
                                        Allen
                                     tells me that you will have no opportunity to get any refreshments till
                                    you reach 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     and that you must take some cakes with you on the cars.
                        I am going to try to keep you here with me till the adjournment. What say you to
                                    this? Can you stand it so long without seeing Channing? Write immediately and tell
                                    me when you will be here, so that I may meet you at the depot.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Feb. 14, 1850
                                
                        I have just received three letters from you and one from Sally, and am feeling a
                                    little disappointed, for instead of seeing you about this time, 
                              
                                 12 James and Lucretia Mott had been among the first
                                            guests entertained in the newly completed Julian home in 
                                                Centerville
                                             a year or so before this time.
                              
                                 13 Wife of Rawson Vaile, editor of The
                                                Indiana True Democrat.
                              
                              
                                 14 Cyrus Finch, brother of Mrs. Julian.
                              
                                 15 The son left at home In 
                                                Centerville
                                            .
                              
                                 16 John McLean of 
                                                Ohio
                                            , an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court. Appointed to the
                                            bench by President 
                                                Jackson
                                            . Dissented in Dred 
                                                Scott
                                             we. Moderate antislavery leader, and often considered as a
                                            presidential candidate by an element of one party or another.
                              
                                 17 Emma D. E. N. Southworth, author of Retribution, The Deserted Wife and other popular novels, some of
                                            which first appeared in The National Era, an antislavery
                                            newspaper published in 
                                                Washington
                                             by Dr. Gamaliel Bailey.
                           
                                     as I have been led to expect, you say you will
                                    not start for another week. So I must submit, but I hope you will not have to delay
                                    your return any longer than the time now fixed.
                        As to my being jealous, I can hardly say whether I am or not. I rather think I am, a
                                        little. Your long absence, your infrequent letters while in 
                                        Boston
                                    , your being so perfectly happy as you confess without me, and what
                                    Sally has written as well as what she has not
                                    written,—all these circumstances go to wake up the "green-eyed
                                    monster" in me some! One of the thoughts which this
                                    monster has suggested is that if I were out of the way you could soon fall in love
                                    with some fellow of a more jovial disposition and more prepossessing manners, and
                                    perhaps love him better than you do me. You don't write such letters as
                                    you did when I was at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     in the Legislature before Channing was born. The fact is, I want you
                                    back here, away from that Yankee country and those gallant widowers and bachelors.
                                    Comparisons are said to be odious and I am afraid of them. I saw Mrs. Southworth
                                    again yesterday and if you don't come back soon you may hear of my being
                                    over head and ears in love with her! So come and let us make up our mutual
                                    jealousies by some amicable "compromise" of our case. The truth
                                    is, I should like to see you "right smart"!
                        As you will probably be here so soon I think I will not write again. My kind regards
                                    to all the Pope household. I have given your and Sally's love to Father
                                    Giddings who sends his in return.
                     
                  
               
                
            [Mrs. Julian arrived in 
                        Washington
                     according to the expectation of her husband as indicated in the last letter where she
                    remained for some three months. She visited points of interest and listened with her husband to some
                    of the great Senate speeches on the Compromise policy. She also attended numerous lectures,
                    concerts, and Presidential "levees", as the 
                        White
                     House receptions were then called. Her girlish beauty and gay spirits made her a
                    welcome addition to any circle, and Mr. Giddings and Judge 
                        Allen
                     were among her special admirers. Early in June the longing to see the child from whom
                    she had been separated almost six months became too strong to resist and she set out for 
                        Centerville
                     under the protection of one of the local merchants who was in the East on business, the
                    route chosen being by way of Niagara Falls. Mr. Julian accompanied her as far as 
                        Philadelphia
                     in order to make the proposed visit to James and Lucretia Mott. On his return to 
                        Washington
                     he wrote another series of letters to his wife.]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Monday, June 10, 1850
                                
                        I arrived here at eight o'clock this morning, finding our boarders at
                                    breakfast. I felt quite solitary, particularly on entering our room. I was very
                                    sorry after you left 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     that you could not have remained  a
                                    day or so longer. I spent that evening at Daniel Neel's delightfully and
                                    know you would have enjoyed it much. Dr. Elder, a glorious fellow whom I wish you
                                    might have met, and Charles Wright, (formerly of Indiana and a son of Peter Wright)
                                    and his wife took tea with us, Mrs. Neel and I leading the way to the dining-room.
                                    The Neel home is adorned with rare paintings and statuary, and they are great lovers
                                    of music. I learned from them and others that it is very common among the Hicksite
                                    Quakers to have a piano and also regular dancing parties among the young and newly
                                    married. How different is such Quakerism from that to which we have been accustomed!
                        On Sunday I heard Wm. H. Furness18 preach and dined by special
                                    invitation with Thomas Cavender, Dr. Elder being another guest. After a parting
                                    visit with our good friends James and Lucretia I took my carpet-sack and left their
                                    hospitable home.
                        What a joyful time I anticipate for you on reaching 
                                        Centerville
                                    ! I am eager to hear all about it. I have many letters in praise of my
                                    maiden speech19, one of them from Charles Sumner which I will
                                    send you after replying to it. He mentions meeting you in 
                                        Boston
                                    . Tell me how you got along with Channing's toys.
                        You will be greatly edified with the pedigree in The Huntress which
                                    I herewith send you. How do you like my "soft carnation bloom" and
                                    your "de Medici model"? Do not fail to tell me about Channing, how
                                    much he has grown, in what respects he has changed, how plainly he can talk,
                                    &c, &c.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    June 15, 1850
                                
                        I am just thinking what a happy time you will have tonight on arriving in
                                    Centreville. Perhaps you got there last night. Why did you not write me from 
                                        New York
                                     as I requested, and from Niagara?
                        I enclose Mr. Sumner's letter and the one I received before you left from
                                    Dr. Palfrey. I also send one from Mr. Tappan20 which gives me
                                    great satisfaction. I have sent you The Freeman containing my
                                    speech, The National Era, The Visitor and The Olive
                                        Branch.
                           21
                        
                        I saw "Grace Greenwood" yesterday with Mrs. Bailey22 in the 
                              
                                 18 For many years minister of the First Unitarian
                                            church in 
                                                Philadelphia
                                            , and father of the well-known Shakespearean scholar.
                              
                                 19 Mr. Julian's first speech in Congress
                                            which dealt with the "Slavery Question," was delivered on
                                            May 14, 1850. Mrs. Julian heard it from the gallery of the House.
                              
                                 20 Whether this was Lewis Tappan, a merchant of
                                            Northampton, Mass, or his brother Arthur is not known, Both were ardent
                                            antislavery advocates Northampton, who more than once suffered personal
                                            violence on account of their reform labors. Arthur Tappan one of the
                                            founders of Oberlin College, endowed Lane Theological Seminary in 
                                                Cincinnati
                                            . and was the first president of the American Antislavery
                                            Society to which he contributed $1,000 a month for many years.
                              
                                 21
                                            The Huntress was a 
                                                Washington
                                             publication edited for twenty-five years by Mrs. Ann Royal. The Saturday Visitor was edited by Mrs. Jane G. Swisshelm,
                                            at Pittsburg. In 1857 Mrs. Swisshelm removed to St. Cloud, Minn., where she
                                            became the editor of The St. Cloud Republican, an organ of
                                            the new Republican party.
                              
                                 22 "Grace Greenwood" was the pen
                                            name of Miss Sarah Jane Clarke, who in 1853 became the wife of Leander K.
                                            Lippincott of 
                                                Philadelphia
                                            . She wrote poems and several volumes of travel sketches. Her
                                            first newspaper work was for the 
                                                New York
                                            
                                            Mirror. In 1850 she was 
                                                Washington
                                             correspondent for the 
                                                New York
                                            
                                            Tribune and other papers. She was an early advocate of
                                            suffrage for women. Keenly interested in the antislavery movement, she
                                            identified herself with the little Free Soil coterie that met at Dr.
                                            Bailey's home about which she wrote interesting reminiscences
                                            many years later. She died in 1904, her later years having been spent
                                            chiefly in 
                                                Italy
                                             where her daughter was engaged in musical studies. Mr. Julian
                                            kept up an occasional correspondence with her until his death in 1899. The
                                            Mrs. Bailey was the wife of Dr. Gamaliel Bailey, editor of the National Era.
                              
                           
                                     gallery. I think she lives when at home at New
                                    Brighton, near Pitts-burg. She is not handsome, as you would suppose from her pretty
                                    name. I was introduced the other day to Charles Francis 
                                        Adams
                                     who mentioned you pleasantly.
                        I am now at the table in our room, pausing every now and then to listen to Uncle
                                    Sam's music in front of the Capitol. I am lonely. I long to see you and
                                    Channing, and have strange forebodings about you both. You are much missed by our
                                    boarders here who speak of you every day… Write to me ever so often!
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    June 21, 1850
                                
                        Yours of the 16th came last night, greatly relieving my mind, for I expected to hear
                                    sooner. I shall take much pleasure in reading your "magnificent
                                    descriptions" of your journey and the full account of your reception at
                                    home which you promise.
                        I was afraid Centreville would seem dull to you. You know I have
                                    always had a fear that we should never again be satisfied with the former monotony
                                    of our village life. It may however turn out otherwise. After you have again become
                                    accustomed to the old ways YOU may feel differently, but the symptoms are
                                    unfavorable at present.
                        The weather here is oppressively hot and the other day I went down on the Avenue and
                                    ordered a summer sack-coat and pantaloons. My new shoes are made, and with the new
                                    suit will enable me to cut quite a figure among the folks on the Hill!
                        …….
                        Give my love to the family and regards to enquiring friends, and do not let Channing
                                    forget me.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    June 26, 1850
                                
                        I have not written for several days because I have been so miserable and feared to
                                    alarm you. But I am better and have resumed my game of ten-pins with Giddings and 
                                        Allen
                                    .
                        Congress still budges along at its snail's speed. We have done nothing
                                    this week, but shall take hold of the 
                                        California
                                     business in earnest next week I think. I have no expectation of an
                                    early adjournment except through the prevalence of cholera which again threatens,
                                    and I should of course prefer to stay all summer rather than adjourn on such terms.
                                    Many members seem to think we shall not get away before October. What a gloomy
                                    prospect! And you in your little lonely town of 
                                        Centerville
                                    !
                        I still receive letters from my district commending my speech and describing its
                                    goodly effects upon friend and foe. I am really growing so used to being praised
                                    that I don't mind it much! It is copied into some half dozen papers and I
                                    frank copies of the new edition every day to individuals who send for it. I have
                                    partially converted my 
                                        North Carolina
                                     relatives and am sending a quantity to them for distribution.
                        Your Uncle Fabius23 is here and we spent last Sunday together
                                    very 
                              
                                 23 Fabius M. Finch, brother of Mrs.
                                            Julian's father, an 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             lawyer and judge.
                           
                                     pleasantly. The weather continues exceedingly
                                    warm, but I have my new coat and pantaloons, also a pair of new shoes, so that I am
                                    more comfortably dressed…… Miss Bremer24
                                    is in town and today I noticed her in the gallery of the House with Anne C. Lynch,
                                    one of the prominent female magazine writers. I called with Giddings and 
                                        Allen
                                     at Dr. Bailey's Sunday evening and found "Grace
                                    Greenwood" there. Do you know her real name? It is Sarah Jane Clarke. Judge 
                                        Allen
                                     did not, and addressed her as "Miss Greenwood."
                        I return greetings of Mr. and Miss Newman25 and inquiring
                                    friends. Love to all the family. Have no word from Vaile for some time.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    July 6, 1850
                                
                        The thermometer has stood in the neighborhood of 96 for some ten days and people are
                                    seen here and there with umbrellas and fans, seeking shady spots and drinking
                                    ice-water while the perspiration oozes out. But I am encouraged by hearing that the
                                    hottest weather here occurs in June and July and that August is always comparatively
                                    cool.
                        I hardly think it worth while to get a new light vest, as you suggest: it is too warm
                                    to wear any vest now, and as to a new stock, I have lately, on Mr.
                                    Giddings' advice, invested in some neck-ribbons, which are cooler. I see
                                    the cholera has appeared at 
                              Boston,
                                            New York, Philadelphia, Columbus
                            and 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    , but the general impression seems to be that it will not become
                                    epidemic.
                        The Free Soilers attended a party the other evening at the home of Mr. Bigelow where
                                    we had a gay time, but stayed too late and I foolishly partook too freely of
                                    raspberries and ice-cream. I meet Mr. and Mrs. Tuck26 frequently
                                    and we have pleasant chats. I spent the Fourth quietly in my room as I was not well
                                    and thought it best to keep cool and away from crowds. Foote27
                                    was our orator, but I had no desire to hear him. I understand that the
                                    Centervillians were to be feasted on an oration by that standing Fourth of July
                                    orator John B. Stitt.28 O, how I did not want
                                    to hear it! After dark I went with Giddings and 
                                        Allen
                                     to the Capitol grounds to see the fireworks which however were not
                                    remarkable. Great crowds of the gaiety and fashion of the city were assembled there,
                                    of all ages and both sexes, and it looked like a general frolic. I was introduced to
                                    Mrs. Durkee, who has just come to town, a sprightly and intelligent little woman
                                    whom I am sure you would like.29… I have recently
                                    received letters from Uncle 
                              
                                 24 Fredericks Bremer, Swedish novelist, who was on a
                                            visit to this country.
                              
                                 25 John S. Newman, first cousin of Mr. Julian. 
                                                Centerville
                                             lawyer, judge, banker and R. R. President.
                              
                                 26 Amos Tuck, a Free Soiler and Representative in
                                            Congress from 
                                                New Hampshire
                                            , 1847-1853.
                              
                                 27 Henry S. Foote, Senator from 
                                                Mississippi
                                            , 1847-1852, afterwards Governor of the state, and later a
                                            member of the Confederate Congress.
                              
                                 28 A 
                                                Centerville
                                             lawyer, partner of Charles H. Test. Published the 
                                    
                                                    Wayne
                                                 County Record. 1841-1848.
                              
                                 29 Wife of Charles Durkee, a Free Soiler, who was a
                                            Representative from 
                                                Vermont
                                            , and latex a U. S. Senator from that State.
                           
                                     Henry and Uncle David [Hoover] giving a
                                    somewhat gloomy picture of politics in old 
                                        Wayne
                                    . Tell me everything you hear along this line.
                        Later—Your most welcome letter has just come, greatly cheering me. But I
                                    value too much your own health to encourage you to take the long journey to this
                                    place alone under present conditions. The cholera is now alng the 
                                        Ohio
                                     and will probably soon be at Sandusky, Buffalo and along the northern
                                    route. If you could come soon, in company with some one to care
                                    for you, it might do. I am not thinking of the "dimes", for I long
                                    to have you and Channing with me. Do you know of anyone coming this way? Perhaps
                                    some of the Centreville merchants may be coming. Look into the matter and by the
                                    time I write again there may be some developments as to adjournment. I am much
                                    interested in what you say of our little boy. Has he learned his letters perfectly,
                                    or anything beyond that? It is time he should learn to spell a little. How do his
                                    clothes fit him?30
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    July 9, 1850
                                
                        Both Houses adjourned today about half past one o'clock in consequence of
                                    a report that the President is dying.31 I have just heard that
                                    he is a little better, but it is not at all probable that, he will survive the
                                    night. His disease in the beginning was something very much like cholera, which has
                                    been followed by fever and a sudden prostration of all his faculties. But you will
                                    have heard of his death and attendant circumstances long before this will reach you.
                                    It will produce a great sensation in the present state of affairs. The balance of
                                    this week will be pretty much occupied with the funeral services, the ceremonies of
                                    inducting the new President, &c, &c.
                        It is not quite so hot for the past two or three days. As yesterday was resolution
                                    day I hoped something would be done on the subject of adjourning, but nobody seems
                                    to think about it any more. So I must give it up. And I suppose I must give you up
                                    too since there seems to be no way of your getting here without too great peril to
                                    yourself. I am too lonely here at Mrs. Spriggs and have a notion to follow Giddings
                                    and 
                                        Allen
                                     to Lamb's, as they urge me to do. I know I should feel more
                                    at home there, but should be sorry to leave Mrs. Spriggs. What do you think about
                                    it?
                        I walked down on the Avenue [
                                        Pennsylvania
                                    ] last evening after dark and was considerably startled as I passed
                                    along the south side about opposite Gadsby's by the sight of a lot of
                                    coffins leaning up against a building,—those hideous looking metallic
                                    ones; but glancing above the door I saw the sign "Undertakers"
                                    which explained the matter. These coffins have been placed here since the sickly
                                    season set in. What an exhibition of hardware!
                        I learned this morning from my friend Brainerd that the wicked Jezebel who figures so
                                    largely in Mrs. Southworth's tale and whose history she briefly narrated
                                    to us the night we visited her, committed 
                              
                                 30 Channing was only four years of age at this time.
                              
                                 31 General Zachary Taylor was elected President in
                                            1848 on the Whig ticket. He died on July 9, the day this letter was
                                        written.
                           
                                     suicide the other day by drowning. I mention
                                    this because, having read the story, it will interest you.
                        I fear I have been writing too despondingly, but you know how easily I become
                                    discouraged and will, I hope, make allowances. I do not wish you to be troubled
                                    about me: I am getting along fairly well, all things considered. You
                                    don't give up the white vest, it seems. Let me tell you, it is too warm
                                    here for vests of any kind, and in common with many others I
                                    dispense with the article altogether. I believe I shall therefore brave the peril of
                                    disobeying orders in this case unless you present some arguments in your favor that
                                    I don't think of.
                        —I have just heard that the President is better and that hopes are
                                    entertained of his recovery.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    July 13, 1850
                                
                        In consequence of the excessive dust and a slight indisposition I did not join in the
                                    procession today nor attend the funeral at the Presidential mansion. I was really
                                    not able. I took my position at my window here at Mrs. Spriggs' and had a
                                    good view of the immense throng that formed the procession and filled the streets
                                    and sidewalks on either side. The military under command of General 
                                        Scott
                                     made a fine appearance, and as the train moved slowly along the bells
                                    of the city tolled and minute-guns were fired, adding to the impressiveness of the
                                    occasion. The coffin was not one of the new-fashioned metallic ones, or if it was
                                    there was an outer one of the ordinary shape enclosing it. It appeared to be covered
                                    with black crape or muslin and was placed on the top of a peculiarly constructed
                                    chariot, high up from the ground and drawn by eight white horses, each horse being
                                    held at the mouth by a darkie. Old Whitey followed next, as fine-looking a horse as
                                    I ever saw.—But I need not tell you anything further about the
                                    ceremonies, as the papers will give all details in due season.
                        As to the Old General, I have a good deal of respect for him. He did not hesitate to
                                    antagonize the South by his action on 
                                        California
                                    . Considering his southern position he did well, and the Free Soilers
                                    have given him due credit. In fancy I see his iron-grey hair and smiling benevolent
                                    face as he appeared the night you and I attended our first levee, and
                                    notwithstanding the harsh things I have said about him I believe he meant to do his
                                    duty as he said.
                        Your Fourth of July was about as I anticipated. Your reply to the Colonization folks
                                    was exactly right. The idea of collecting money on such a day for such a scheme is
                                    abominable, and I am astonished that the 
                                        Centerville
                                     people would encourage such a piece of business. They ought to have
                                    remembered the declaration of John Quincy 
                                        Adams
                                     that the Colonization scheme is a project of the slaveholders to
                                    strengthen and perpetuate American slavery.
                        I shall seek an opportunity, since you wish it, to become acquainted with Miss Bremer
                                    and will also try to follow your advice to mingle more in society. It would probably
                                    be good for me, but I have spent too much of my life, my "glorious youthful
                                    prime", in the solitude to which I was driven by my timid nature, my
                                    cowardly fear of man and women.  I have done
                                    much to conquer nature and to neutralize the effects of an education which made no
                                    effort to save me from my besetting sin; but I can never hope to be the man I might
                                    have been with proper early education. Let us remember these things in
                                    "training up in the way he should go" our little
                                    scion, whom we may thus save from a world of suffering and self-conflict and at the
                                    same time help to give him the full stature of manhood for which he may be fitted by
                                    natural endowments.
                        I have seen Holloway's opinion of my speech, but it troubles me not at
                                        all.32
                        
                        Mrs. Spriggs sends you greetings. I am sorry to leave here, but have concluded to go
                                    to Mr. Lamb's the first of next week, to be with my cronies, Giddings and
                                    Allen.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    July 19, 1850
                                
                        I have your "very long letter" accompanied by one from Cy, and have
                                    today received the enclosed letter from Sally Pope which will please you. Were it
                                    not for the expense I would accept the invitation and spend a week or so in New 
                                        England
                                    . I know of no other opportunity I shall have for such a trip unless I
                                    should happen to be returned to Congress a second time. Being very tired of staying
                                    here, and not very well, it would be a real relief and I should return greatly
                                    refreshed. Give me your advice and suggestions on receipt' of this. Judge
                                    Allen is going home soon for a visit, and urges me to accompany him.
                        Congress is wagging along as usual, with no sign of an adjournment. I was again at
                                    Dr. Bailey's last evening, with 
                                        Allen
                                     and Giddings. We found Chase, Hale,33
                                    "Grace Greenwood" and a number of others there and had a spirited
                                    talk, I have not yet been introduced to Miss Bremer and probably shall not be, as I
                                    am informed she leaves tomorrow.
                        The weather here has turned cooler since the late remarkable storm which lasted more
                                    than twenty-four hours, and I learn from all quarters that the cholera is abating. I
                                    no longer fear its coming here and probably our worst trouble will be the dreadful
                                    billions diseases which set in about the first of August.
                        But I must conclude…. There seems nothing interesting to write about. We
                                        have nothing but politics, politics, politics. You wished me
                                    to come to 
                                        Washington
                                    , and having left me when I most wanted you it seems to me you ought to
                                    give me something better than "scraps" to live on. Think of this,
                                    and of how I must feel to be so far and so long away from you and our boy. Give me
                                    good long letters and I will try to reciprocate.
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  32 D. P. Holloway was editor of the 
                            Richmond
                        
                        Palladium, leading Whig organ of 
                            Wayne
                         County.
               
                  33 Salmon P. Chase was the newly elected Senator from 
                            Ohio
                        . He was a Free Soiler, but was elected by the Democrats of the 
                            Ohio
                         Legislature with the aid of two independent Free Soilers. No Whig voted for him and
                        no Free Soiler who had been a Whig. He was later Governor of 
                            Ohio
                         and Secretary of the Treasury under 
                            Lincoln
                        . He was appointed Chief Justice of the 
                            United States
                         by 
                            Lincoln
                         after resigning from the Treasury Department. John P. Hale was a Senator from 
                            New Hampshire
                        . In 1852, he and Julian were the candidates of the Free Soil party for President
                        and Vice President.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    July 26, 1850
                                
                        It is a week today since I heard from you and then only a few lines promising a
                                    "long letter" in a day or so. Surely you can find time to write a
                                    few lines every few days. Congress is a perfect bore and life a drag, so that I
                                    really need to hear from you and Channing often as a solace.
                        Hon. Daniel P. King, a Whig member of Congress from Massachuetts fifty years of age,
                                    died recently at his home as I have just learned. He was sick when he left here, of
                                    the prevailing diarrhea, but reached home, when he became worse. Several other
                                    members are sick. Mr. Hackett34 has the consumption and it is
                                    said will never get well. We are all wretchedly tired of staying here, but see no
                                    prospect of getting away. A day of adjournment may be fixed next week after the
                                    final vote on 
                                        Clay
                                    's Compromise. I keep hoping to get a sight through to the
                                    other side of this interminable session.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    August 3, 1850
                                
                        When this letter reaches you it will be two months since we separated, and it seems
                                    to me sometimes as if we are becoming strangers. "When shall we thee meet again?" When shall I return to that dull old town
                                    that I was so eager to get away from and that now seems to me so precious? The
                                        Omnibus35 being now dead, both Houses stand where they did
                                    at the beginning of the session. Nothing yet done and unless we should break up in a
                                    row within a few weeks it is impossible to form any conjecture as to when an
                                    adjournment will take place.
                        The Speaker36 has placed me on the Committee of Accounts in the
                                    place of Hon. D. P. King, deceased. Outside of politics I have no
                                    "uncos" to tell you and I know you would not be interested in such
                                    political gossip as I might write you. I called this morning at Mrs.
                                    Spriggs' but saw none of the boarders. She has two new ones and says they
                                    are getting along about as usual.
                        I am anxious to hear from the election in 
                                        Wayne
                                     [County]. 1 fear Vaile and Elder will be beaten; they do not write and
                                    I learn that they are discouraged. I hope Vaile will give me the earliest news as to
                                    the result.37 Should I be a candidate again much will depend on
                                    the elections in the district the present season.
                        Have you given up the 
                                        Richmond
                                     visit? I hope you are there by this time and enjoying yourself. Try to
                                    go to see our relatives in the country above town.
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  34 Thomas C. Hackett, a Democratic Member of Congress from 
                            Georgia
                         who died the following year.
               
                  35 The measure proposed by Henry Clay to save the 
                            Union
                         by Compromise was called the Omnibus Bill. It failed of enactment as a single bill,
                        but later passed as a series of five separate acts.
               
                  36 Howell Cobb, a Democrat of 
                            Georgia
                        , was elected Speaker near the end of December, 1849, after a long period of
                        balloting and much excitement.
               
                  37 Rawson Vaile, editor of The Indiana True Democrat,
                        was the Free Soil candidate for auditor of 
                            Wayne
                         County, and James Elder was running for the state senate, against Holloway. Elder
                        was at that time editor of The Jeffersonian, a Democratic newspaper of 
                            Richmond
                        . Holloway was the editor of the Palladium.
               
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Aug. 6, 1850
                                
                        Your "long letter" which I had almost despaired of has finally come
                                    into port and interests me much. I am sorry to learn of your and
                                    Channing's illness, but glad you are about again. I shall feel uneasy
                                    till I hear again, for I have no doubt you are in more danger of cholera there than
                                    I am here.
                        You speak of your dread of letter writing. You should shake it off at once, for the
                                    more you yield to it the more you will dislike to write. You have now got your hand
                                    in and the only way to succeed is to persevere. Habit will make it all easy. Am
                                    sorry you feel so lonely and as if you had few friends. We want
                                    but few intimates, and besides, Centre-ville is not the whole county or district, in
                                    which we have any quantity of the right sort. Moreover, we shall always have as many
                                    as we want they-e. For my part I am attached to the soil on which
                                    I was torn and at present have no desire to leave it. I would rather remain there
                                    than go anywhere else. I know of no better country than the West, and that
                                    particular part of it where our lot has been cast.
                        You make out a pretty plausible case in favor of my being reconciled to remain here a
                                    while longer. I am willing provided I can have health. I feel sad to hear that
                                    Channing is so unmanageable and doesn't seem to care a snap for me: this
                                    makes me long more than ever to go home and help mould his developing character.
                                    Watch over him, keep him child-like and innocent, and don't allow him to
                                    be influenced by bad associations.38
                        
                        The weather is again excessively warm. Our market is full of fruits of all kinds,
                                    melons, &c, and I find it a great cross to keep hands off. Hardly anybody
                                    else does so and in the course of about a week, if 1 should feel pretty well and the
                                    weather should turn cooler, I mean to begin.
                        No effort was made yesterday to fix a time of adjournment, but there is a good deal
                                    of talk about a recess of a month or six weeks beginning about the first of
                                    September. That would bring me home to you in a few weeks and the return here would
                                    be in pleasant weather. Should I come back to 
                                        Washington
                                     by the Northern route I could easily visit 
                                        Boston
                                     from 
                                        New York
                                     on my way here. I must either do that or stop a few days as I go home
                                    this fall. Tomorrow I will send my weekly political deliverance to
                                    Vaile's paper.
                        Dr. Prichett has certainly been unlucky. I hope he will yet realize some gold and
                                    return safe and sound to Centreville.39
                        
                        From what you say I must have scolded you rather too much for not writing. I knew
                                    nothing of your illness and could not account for the delay. As the cholera is among
                                    you, or likely to be, I want YOU to write every day, or every other day, if only a line or two, for awhile, So that I may know how you
                                are.
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  38 This little boy was born in April, 1846, and was therefore at this time
                        four years and about four months old!
               
                  39 Dr. John Pritchett was a well known and highly esteemed physician of 
                            Centerville
                         who joined the seekers after gold in 
                            California
                        .
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    August 9, 1850
                                
                        When you last wrote the cholera was thought to be in Centreville, Channing was not
                                    well, and Mr. Vaile quite sick. I expected to hear again in a day or so and have
                                    been very anxious.
                        Bright40 has received a dispatch stating that Holloway and the
                                    Whig candidates for the Legislature are all elected. This is bad news, but I feared
                                    it. The Democrats and Free Soilers have not managed as well as they did last
                                        year.41 I think they have failed by not having the right
                                    sort of men on the stump. I suppose Vaile and all the rest are beaten. What an
                                    uncertain game is politics!
                        I have no news. Judge 
                                        Allen
                                     started home today. The weather is very hot, Congress is doing nothing,
                                    and I see no prospect of an adjournment. What a torment to be confined here when we
                                    could so much better adjourn and reconvene in October.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    August 14, 1850
                                
                        I was sadly disappointed by the political news from 
                                        Wayne
                                     (county). The news is bad also from 
                                        Union
                                    , which saved me last year, but not so bad from 
                                        Fayette
                                     and Henry. All things considered, the prospect ahead for us looks
                                    squally. Everything may come right by another year, but I have not much hope of it,
                                    and the more I look forward to the uncertain future the more thankful I am for the
                                    past, which has gone to record and cannot be recalled. I am truly sorry for Vaile
                                    who has labored faithfully in the good cause and deserved a better fate. Aside from
                                    the small vote he received, he needs the office for which he was
                                    defeated, and is fitted for it.
                        I am much pleased with what you say about our Channing. His question, "Is he
                                    like he been?" has edified me greatly and has given me a better idea of him
                                    than anything else you could have written.
                        And are you getting popular! I wish I were with you to hear the
                                    "thousand things" you have to tell me. I will bring your new
                                    calling cards when I come.
                        But I have told you no news from this quarter, and there is not much to tell. Little
                                    "Jackie" came to see how I was the other day and to invite me to
                                    tea with them. I went, and had such a supper as a Congressman seldom sees here. We
                                    had music and a pleasant time. They are now looking for their folks from Indiana.42 The cholera is still raging at the Ferry [Harper's
                                    Ferry] and one case has occurred here. It is at 
                                        Baltimore
                                    . Do write oftener! 
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    August 17, 1850
                                
                        This must be brief, as there is little to report. Mrs. Underwood and 
                              
                                 40 Jesse D. Bright was one of the Senators from
                                            Indiana. He was a Democrat as was James Whitcomb his colleague. D. P.
                                            Holloway, the Whig editor of the Palladium defeated Jam-
                                            Elder, the Democratic editor of The Jeffersonian for the
                                            State Senate.
                              
                                 41 The Democrats and Free Soilers of the first
                                            congressional district fused in 1849 to elect Julian. In 1850, there was
                                            fusion again between these parties in 
                                                Wayne
                                             County in relation to the county ticket, but this time the
                                            Whigs won. Vaile, editor of the Free Soil paper at 
                                                Centerville
                                            , was beaten in his race for county auditor.
                              
                                 42 Mr. Julian dined with the Underwood family.
                                            "Jackie" was "the tweet little boy"
                                            referred to in the letter of Jan. 9, 1850.
                           
                                     her son Tom, fresh from Indiana, called to see
                                    me last evening, and I shall return their call today or tomorrow. They had no
                                    important items of news to communicate.
                        Mrs. Southworth's new novel, "The Deserted Wife", is now
                                    for sale at the bookstores, and I will send you a copy this afternoon when I go down
                                    town. Mrs. S. has been absent from the city for several weeks. I called last evening
                                    at Mrs. 
                                        Wells
                                    ' boarding-house to see General Booth and had a pleasant talk
                                    with him and his lady and with Linn Boyd and his new wife.43 I
                                    find that Boyd is a first cousin to the Boyds on Greensfork whom I have known so
                                    long. Mrs. Boyd is very agreeable.
                        The tug of war comes on in our House next week on the bills recently passed by the
                                    Senate, that is, the 
                                        Texas
                                     boundary bill, the 
                                        California
                                     bill and the territorial bills. When this struggle is over, which will
                                    probably be during the week, I can tell you something about an adjournment. I long
                                    to be at home with you and Channing, mingling among friends, eating fruit, free from
                                    care and the tiresome din of politics.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    August 21, 1850
                                
                        Yours of the 16th was received last evening. I find you are as hopeful as ever about
                                    our political prospects and anxious for me to be a candidate again. I see that my
                                    friends wish me to run, but it is too soon yet to make a decision.
                        I am glad to hear that Vaile is entirely well again. Is he much discouraged, and do
                                    you talk politics with him? Do you see any of my uncles of late? I spent last Sunday
                                    evening very pleasantly at Mr. Underwood's.
                        The weather here is disagreeably cold and damp. Judge Allen writes from his home in 
                                        Worcester
                                     [
                                        Massachusetts
                                    ] that ke is in his office writing all day with a fire in his stove.
                                    Father Giddings sends his regards. He is my only chum in Judge 
                                        Allen
                                    's absence.
                        I called at Mrs. Spriggs' last night and found that poor Cole44 had been telegraphed that his wife is dangerously ill and had
                                    left in great trouble…….
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    August 25, 1850
                                
                        As to adjournment I am going to say no more about it till I see some reasonable
                                    prospect of it. Many members are for staying here for weeks to come, some for six
                                    weeks, other till the first of November or even December. So I shall flatter myself
                                    with no more delusive hopes.
                        Judge Allen has just returned from home greatly refreshed and improved in health. Mr.
                                    Giddings talks of going in a week or two. Several members have been at home nearly
                                    all summer, among hem Tuck who 
                              
                                 43 Walter Booth was a Free Soil Representative from 
                                                Connecticut
                                             in the thirty-first Congress and a member of the Committee on
                                            Public Expenditures of which Andrew 
                                                Johnson
                                             of 
                                                Tennessee
                                             was chairman, Linn Boyd was a Democratic Representative from 
                                                Kentucky
                                             and at this time chairman of the Committee on Territories.
                                            Afterwards he was Speaker of the House during the thirty-third Congress.
                              
                                 44 Orsamus Cole was a Democratic Representative from 
                                                Wisconsin
                                            .
                           
                                     has just returned without his family, and
                                    Governor Cleveland.45 I could do so, but it would not seem to me
                                    right and I shall try to be patient.
                        Jacob's letters are not very Whiggish.46 Whenever you
                                    hear anything from Hampden47 write me of it. I notice that a
                                    great deal of fatal sickness has prevailed along the route and that the emigrants
                                    already arrived in 
                                        California
                                     are so numerous that gold digging is a poor business. Hampden should
                                    follow Meredith's example and go at once into a printing office.48
                        
                        I hope you will lay away the National Eras which I send, as I shall
                                    want to refer to them hereafter. I send you a little book lately received which was
                                    accompanied by a map on which appears the autograph of "Grace
                                    Greenwood."
                        I think the House will very soon take up the important slavery bills from the Senate,
                                    and it will be an exciting time.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Sept. 4, 1850
                                
                        I have again been sick, but am now on the up-grade and hope soon to be able to pitch
                                    horseshoes with Giddings and 
                                        Allen
                                    . We have each bought two of the blacksmith, having grown tired of
                                    nine-pins. We pitch on the green near Mrs. Lamb's where we used to hold
                                    our foot-races last spring.
                        Today I went to see Wm. L. Chaplin in the city jail. He is one of the finest men in 
                                        New York
                                     and is confined on a charge of enticing away the slaves of Toombs and
                                    Stephens of 
                                        Georgia
                                    .49 you have have no doubt seen in the papers
                                    accounts of the matter. Hs is said to be engaged to be married to a Miss Gilmore,
                                    one of the proprietors of the Glen Haven Water Cure establishment in 
                                        New York
                                    . She was here recently to see him and I became acquainted with her.
                        I have nothing new to report. Great excitement prevails in Congress, the scene of
                                    interest being transferred from the Senate to the House. For the past two days the
                                    lobbies and galleries have been much crowded. The 
                                        Texas
                                     Boundary bill failed to pass to a third reading today and the
                                    slaveholders and Doughfaces look blue…….
                        I met Mr. Brainard yesterday and he says that Mrs. Southworth is at Shannondale in 
                                        Virginia
                                    , employing the summer in reading, writing, riding on horseback,
                                    &c. He corresponds with her and says she will return here soon. Before I
                                    leave for home I will either call on her or send her a note with your album
                                    requesting her autograph.
                        "The Swedish Nightingale" [Jenny Lind] has arrived in 
                                        New York
                                    
                                    
                              
                                 45 Chauncey F. 
                                                Cleveland
                                             was a democratic Representative from 
                                                Connecticut
                                            , 1849-1853.
                              
                                 46 Jacob Burnet Julian, the older brother already
                                            referred to.
                              
                                 47 Hampden G. Finch, brother of Mrs. Julian who had
                                            joined the gold seekers in the overland journey to 
                                                California
                                            .
                              
                                 48 The Indiana True Democrat of June
                                            26, 1860, mentions a letter from S. C. Meredith who reported that he was
                                            clearing $75.00 per week at the printing business in 
                                                California
                                            . He advised all would-be gold seekers to remain at home.
                                            Meredith was the grandfather of Meredith Nicholson.
                              
                                 49 Robert Toombs and Alexander H. Stephens, Whig
                                            members of the House from 
                                                Georgia
                                            .
                           
                                     and is creating great commotion. I hope to hear
                                    her there on my way home unless she should visit 
                                        Washington
                                    , which she probably will during the fall or winter.
                        Have heard from our friend Cole and am glad to report that his wife is likely to
                                    recover. I think I informed you in a previous letter that Tuck's wife and
                                    children are at their home in 
                                        New Hampshire
                                    . I occasionally have pleasant chats with little Mrs. Durkee. Dr.
                                    Bailey's family are visiting in 
                                        Massachusetts
                                    , so I do not go there at present.
                        You do wrong in neglecting to write to Sally Pope. But don't neglect me, lest I become frantic with
                                    nostalgia. Especially when I am sick I need to hear from you and home. How pleasant
                                    it would be if I could be with you this approaching pretty fall weather, reading and
                                    visiting friends together. You don't know how I long for liberty again on
                                    the "free soil" of old 
                                        Wayne
                                    !
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Sept. 7.
                                
                        I am writing in the House. We have just passed the 
                                        California
                                     Bill.50 The 
                                        Texas
                                     Boundary Bill went through yesterday, and there is a general
                                    disposition to get through with the business and adjourn, certainly by the last of
                                    the month.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Sept. 9.
                                
                        I take pleasure in informing you that the House has this day agreed to adjourn three
                                    weeks hence and the Senate has sent in its concurrence. So now you can guess when
                                    you will see me. But there is much work ahead of us and we shall be compelled to
                                    hold night sessions.
                        Intense excitement prevailed last week over the action respecting the slave bills. I
                                    never saw anything equal to it. I have noticed the matter at some length in my
                                    letter to Vaile which you will see in his paper. On Saturday night 100 guns were
                                    fired in honor of the great Southern triumph and the whole city was in an uproar of
                                    glorification. Stands were erected in various parts of the city and large crowds
                                    assembled to hear the speaking.51 The impression here seems to
                                    be that the Free Soilers and their principles are dead and buried and that no more
                                    "agitation" will ever be heard of. We shall see.
                        I want your opinion about my going to New 
                                        England
                                    . I shall return by the Northern route and when I am in 
                                        New York
                                     I can go across to 
                                        Boston
                                     in a few hours' ride at a few dollars' expense.
                                    It will delay my return home three or four days, but it will be my only opportunity
                                    of going there during my term of service in pleasant weather. I am in a hurry to get
                                    home however and am not eager about this trip.
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  50 This measure, admitting 
                            California
                         as a free State, received the support of the Free Soilers. They also voted for the
                        bill abolishing the slave trade in the District of 
                            Columbia
                         the following week.
               
                  51 The Senate had then passed four of the five Compromise measures, the
                        House three of them. The last, abolishing the slave trade in the District of 
                            Columbia
                        , passed the Senate Sept. 16 and the House on the day following. Those who
                        celebrated, included both Whigs and Democrats. northerners and southerners, who felt that the 
                            Union
                         was being saved.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Sep. 14.
                                
                        The Fugitive Slave Bill passed our House day before yesterday.52
                                    Giddings has gone home and members are leaving every day. I may
                                    leave here a little before the session closes, but shall probably remain till the
                                    end. In about three weeks at the latest I shall be "over the hills and far
                                    away".
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Sep. 19, 1850.
                                
                        I have decided to pay my respects to some features of the Compromise in another
                                    speech on which I am now busy. It is very doubtful though about mg getting the
                                    floor.
                        On the strength of your advice I believe I will go to New 
                                        England
                                    . I shall have to miss West Point, which I regret. I will also take your
                                    advice as to my baggage. Is it not too late for a white vest? All
                                    your suggestions seem well conceived and will be duly followed. Somehow I dread this
                                    New 
                                        England
                                     venture as the time approaches, and wish I had a good excuse for giving
                                    it up. If I go, and get my hand in, I shall probably stay a week, sightseeing.
                        I enclose a letter from Charles Francis 
                                        Adams
                                     as a specimen of the neatness and taste of an educated Yankee.
                        Two Turks with red turbans on their heads and heavy mustachios have just entered the
                                    Hall. One of them is the agent of his government, sent here on public business.
                                    Members are rushing from their seats to gaze at them.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Sep. 26.
                                
                        I got the floor yesterday, but occupied only a short time: it was too late in the
                                    session and would have outraged the feelings of the House to have taken up an hour
                                    when we are so hurried to get through. You will see it in the Globe and probably in
                                    Vaile's paper later. It will no doubt make trouble between me and the
                                    Democrats, but after the passage of the Fugitive Slave Bill I was determined to say
                                    what I thought.53
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Sunday night,
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Baltimore
                                 , 
                           
                                    Sep. 29, 1850
                                
                        Judge Allen and I have come thus far tonight on our way. We shall rest here till
                                    morning, having lost much sleep for the past few nights and having been up last
                                    night till a quarter past four in the morning. I feel considerably used up but
                                    greatly relieved to think I am forty miles from 
                                        Washington
                                    , that wondrous city which ten months ago I was 90 eager to see.
                        I had no idea I had so many things to look after just before starting 
                              
                                 52 Three Democrats in the Indiana delegation voted
                                            with Julian against the Fugitive Slave Bill: Graham N. Fitch, Andrew J.
                                            Harlan and John L. Robinson. Since the election of Taylor. many Northern
                                            Democrats had shown strong anti-slavery sentiments. See paper by William O.
                                            Lynch referred to in note 1.
                              
                                 53 Julian had been elected through a fusion of Free
                                            Soilers and Democrats in 1849. By this time he felt that Democrats might
                                            accept the Compromise, in which case fusion in 1851 might become
                                        impossible.
                           
                                     … Am bringing with me only one
                                    trunk. Your quilt is in it. I have a new hat, a new pair of boots, a &ck and
                                    a nice vest. Have two sets of engraved cards, with your plate. I am more than
                                    anxious to see you and Channing, and were it not for my trip North I would be with
                                    you very soon. Expect to reach home in about ten days.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Boston
                                ,
                           
                                    Tuesday night 
                                    October 1, 1850
                                
                        I spent last night in 
                                        New York
                                     and arrived here at 5 this evening, passing through 
                                        New Haven
                                    , Hartford, 
                              Springfield,
                                            Worcester
                            and the
                                    picturesque country intervening. I am at the 
                                        Adams
                                     House. I have some letters of introduction to Charles Sumner Esq. and
                                    others, but am tired and dusty and shall see nobody till morning. 
                                        Boston
                                     is "some." Jenny [Lind] is here, holding forth
                                    tonight. She will also sing on Thursday and Saturday and I shall probably hear her.
                                    I expect to mend three or four days in this city and vicinity and then go to 
                                        Worcester
                                     to spend a day with the Judge [
                                        Allen
                                    ]. Will then go to 
                                        Spencer
                                     for one night with the Popes and put out the next morning for
                                    "home, sweet home".
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Boston
                                ,
                           
                                    Sunday night,
                                    Oct. 6, 1850
                                
                        I have been to Quincy, 
                                        Lowell
                                    , Nashua, 
                                        Salem
                                     and Lynn. Have just returned from the last named place where I last
                                    night addressed a large audience on the subject of Slavery. It was a complete
                                    surprise to me to find myself advertised to speak there along with Wendell Phillips
                                    and Charles S. Burleigh.54 On Thursday I spoke at the Free Soil
                                    State convention here in 
                                        Boston
                                    . I heard "Jenny" too, and dined in Quincy with Mr. 
                                        Adams
                                     [Charles Francis]. But there is too much to tell about my various
                                    experiences for a letter, and I am almost worn out with constant travel and
                                    excitement. So I must reserve the rest till I see you. Will leave for the West on
                                    Wednesday. Oh, how I long to be at home where it is quiet and see the glad smiling
                                    faces of my loved ones.
                        I sometimes think I am a great fool to be spending my time so far from home after an
                                    absence of ten long months. It is strange that a sensible man with human feelings
                                    should do so and I wonder now that I could have endured my long absence.
                     
                  
               
                
            [For six weeks, Representative Julian enjoyed the quiet of home and the society of relatives and
                    friends. Nearly all of his callers wished to hear further about his experiences of the past ten
                    months, and thus the subjects that had engaged his attention were kept constantly in mind. On
                    returning to 
                        Washington
                     for the short session of 1850-1851, more home letters were written.]
            
               
                  54 Wendell Phillips was already famous as an abolition orator. Burleigh
                        was an anti-slavery man and an advocate of suffrage for women.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                ,
                           
                                    December 1, 1850
                                    Sunday evening
                                
                        I arrived here last night at 8 o'clock, bruised and fatigued beyond an
                                    former experience. I passed over the mountains in the night, and such jolting you
                                    can hardly imagine. I can scarcely get up or down and shall probably be a pretty
                                    respectable cripple for a week or more, but am thankful to be safely at the end of
                                    my trip. I am at Mr. Colbert's boarding house quite near the Capitol,
                                    with Giddings and 
                                        Allen
                                     until we engage permanent quarters. The Public Grounds look most
                                    delightful and so does the whole city. I am captivated with its appearance from the
                                    Capitol, —its fine public buildings, broad streets and
                                    "magnificent distances." Centreville seems to me more
                                    insignificant than ever and you don't know how I shall pity you if you
                                    should have to remain there all winter.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Dec. 4, 1850
                                
                        Was very busy yesterday moving and fixing up. Am in a comfortable room at Mrs.
                                    Rice's on the Hill, the house Mrs. Clements kept last summer with whom
                                    Tuck and others boarded. Giddings, 
                                        Allen
                                    , Durkee, Robinson and Cable55 are the others of our
                                    mess. Robinson's wife is with him. Mrs. Durkee did not come.
                        But few members brought their wives. Stevens56 and Dunham57 are keeping Mrs. Spriggs' old place. I am very
                                    sorry to inform you that our friend Wood of 
                                        Ohio
                                     is dead.58 He died in 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                    , our State, a few days before Congress met. He was a good fellow.
                        I have sent you several papers and will send others. Suppose we both preserve scraps
                                    during the winter and when I return we will form our book.
                        I have heard nothing from you since I left home and have a notion to begin scolding
                                    again. I am of course anxious to know how you and Channing get along in that
                                    "dark and doleful" town of Centreville. All my thoughts turn
                                    homewards…. If I had you and our boy with me how happy we should all be!
                                    If you do not go to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     for part of the winter I shall repent not bringing you along, as I so
                                    wanted to.
                        In my former letters I forgot to mention that in balloting for seats I was among the
                                    very first called and so got one of the best seats in the House. Giddings and 
                                        Allen
                                     send their good wishes. Do not fail to write 
                              
                                 55 John L. Robinson of Rushville was a Democratic
                                            Representative from Indiana, 1847-1853. Joseph Cable, an 
                                                Ohio
                                             Democrat, served in this and the succeeding Congress.
                              
                                 56 Thaddeus Stevens, a Whig from 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                            , was then serving his first term in Congress.
                              
                                 57 Cyrus L. Dunham, a Democrat from 
                                                Salem
                                            , Indiana, served in the national House from 1849 to 1856. Other
                                            evidence indicates that Stevens and Dunham did not live at the
                                            Sprigg's place. Mr. Julian seems to have been misinformed in
                                            regard to this matter.
                              
                                 58 Amos E. Wood was a Democrat who had represented the
                                            Sanduskey, 
                                                Ohio
                                            , district.
                           
                                     often. Write "lots" about
                                    Channing. Tell him I send him "a drove of horses" and that you
                                    will give them to him for me.
                        Fillmore goes the whole figure for the Fugitive Slave Law in his message. Poor
                                    Whiggery! What shall it do to be saved?
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Dec. 9, 1850
                                
                        There is little to report. Have not seen the Underwoods since the day after my
                                    arrival. I mean to call there this evening. Judge Allen and I called to see Mr. Lamb
                                    and found another family in his old house. Mr. Lamb has received an appointment in
                                    the Customhouse in 
                                        California
                                     under T. B. King, our collector there. The Judge and I have rented a
                                    pew in the Unitarian Church and on Sunday we had the honor of worshipping with the
                                    President who has also taken a pew there, being a member of the church. A number of
                                    distinguished ministers from New 
                                        England
                                     are to preach in turn for us during the session. Miss Lynch59 attends that church and by the way I must get her autograph
                                    for you.
                        One of the papers I take during the session is The Literary World,
                                    a weekly of unusual interest and ability, which I will send on to you, and perhaps
                                    if we like it we will take it longer. You might lend it to Isaac60 after you have read it. I will also mail to you The Living
                                    Age, which he as well as you will enjoy. I wish the numbers all preserved, as I
                                    intend to continue it and have them bound.
                        Politically, I know of nothing new except a speech today in Committee of the Whole by
                                    Mr. Giddings, called forth by the final portion of the President's
                                    Message commending the late Compromise. Mr. Giddings again called attention to the
                                    fact that the Free Soilers have no slightest disposition to interfere with Slavery
                                    in the States where it exists: they would leave it where the Constitution leaves it,
                                    but they do not propose to turn out and help Southern slaveholders capture their
                                    runaways. The speech was not treated with the respect it deserved and I believe
                                    there is a more proscriptive and intolerant feeling towards the Free Soilers than
                                    ever before. They are determined to keep down "agitation," but
                                    they will fail in their purpose.
                        I received last night from the Secretary of our Indiana State [Whig] Convention
                                    resolutions endorsing the Compromise measures of the last session. It seems that
                                        Rariden61 brought the subject before the convention and they
                                    had a warm time over the discussion. The nomination62 evidently
                                    lies between Newman, Parker, Smith and Holloway. There is danger of so many and such
                                    serious divisions among the Whigs as to 
                              
                                 59 Miss Anne C. Lynch, the magazine writer, mentioned
                                            above in Julian's letter of June 26, 1860.
                              
                                 60 Isaac Hoover Julian, Mr. Julian's
                                            younger brother. He afterwards edited various newspapers in 
                                                Wayne
                                             County and later in 
                                                Texas
                                            . See sketch of his life in Indiana Magazine of
                                                History, XXVIII, (March, 1932). 9-20.
                              
                                 61 James Rariden was an Indiana lawyer, who had been a
                                            Whig Representative in Congress from the fourth or "Burnt"
                                            district from 1837 to 1841.
                              
                                 62 Julian was no longer speaking of the state
                                            convention, but had shifted to his own congressional district, John S.
                                            Newman, Samuel W. Parker (defeated by Julian in 1849), Caleb B. Smith and D.
                                            P. Holloway were all seeking the Whig nomination in the district. Julian was
                                            hopeful that Democrats would again fuse with Free Soilers in the district.
                                            He saw the possibility that the Democrats might run a candidate of their
                                            own, and even dreamed of a combination of antislavery Whigs and antislavery
                                            Democrats with Free Soilers in an attempt to defeat a candidate backed by
                                            Hunker (pro-slavery) Whigs and Democrats.
                           
                                     encourage the Democrats to set up a man of
                                    their own. It may be that the Hunkers of both the old parties will
                                    unite against me in favor of some Fugitive Slave Law man, in which event the honest
                                    men of all parties will rally to me against that law. Time will determine, but at
                                    present I am hopeful, although the delegation here are hostile and will do all they
                                    can against me.63 If I can have my health a combined attack will
                                    only commend me to the people.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Dec. 19, 1850
                                
                        For several days I have heard nothing but talk about the "divine
                                    Jenny" who is to leave this morning, I hear. She was in our gallery
                                    yesterday and such a hubbub in the Hall I have never seen. No mortal is so idolized.
                                    Giddings and Durkee went to hear her last night and were of course enchanted, as I
                                    was [when] in 
                                        Boston
                                    . It will gratify you to know that I sent one of the pages with your
                                    album to Willard's [Hotel] and obtained her autograph as follows:
                                    "In kind remembrance of Jenny Lind. 
                                        Washington
                                    , December, 1850."
                        Yesterday soon after the House met I was called to the door by Will Woods64. I was surprised of course to see him. He heard
                                    "Jenny" last night and agrees with others as to her singing, but
                                    declares she is homely. I believe he is here on some patent business.
                        I forgot to tell you that when I last called on the Underwoods I met Tom's
                                    wife who is very pleasant and who spoke of seeing you in 
                                        Wayne
                                     County when she was there. I hope you and Channing are getting along
                                    all right and that you are planning a visit to 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    .
                        There is little of interest here. I lire almost entirely in my room when not
                                    attending the sessions or taking my daily walks with the Judge.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Dec. 22, 1850
                                
                        Your long wished-for letter dated Dec. 19 came last evening. I am pleased with what
                                    you say about politics and "the quiet joys of home." It will be
                                    fortunate if our political experience shall have the effect of making us more
                                    contented with private life than we might otherwise have been. The tone of your
                                    letter, your disposition to jest with untoward circumstances, pleases me. You have
                                    more philosophy under trials generally than I have. So Channing talks about me! I
                                    wish I had him here to tousle with! It is strange that you have
                                    not received any papers yet, for I have sent a number, some of real interest. I have
                                    not seen Stitt's puff of Ob.65 and wish you would
                                    send me the paper.
                        The weather is cold here, but my health is excellent. I walk with the Judge about
                                    four miles every day, and eat some.
                        
                        I am glad to hear that Mother has gone to housekeeping and that 
                              
                                 63 The Indiana delegation in the lower House of
                                            Congress then consisted of: Nathaniel Albertson of Greenville. William J.
                                            Brown of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , C. L. Dunham of 
                                                Salem
                                            . Graham N. Fitch of 
                                                Logansport
                                            , Willis A. Gorman of 
                                                Bloomington
                                            , Andrew J. Harlan of 
                                                Marion
                                            , Joseph E. McDonald of 
                                                Crawfordsville
                                            , John L. Robinson of Rushville all Democrats: Edward W.
                                            McGaughey of 
                                                Rockville
                                            , a Whig: and George W. Julian, a Free Soiler.
                              
                                 64 W. L. Woods was a citizen of 
                                                Centerville
                                            . He was clerk of the Committee on Public Lands during Mr.
                                            Julian's chairmanship of that committee in the sixties.
                              
                                 65 "Ob" was a nickname for Oliver P.
                                            Morton of 
                                                Centerville
                                            , afterwards War Governor of Indiana and later 
                                                United States
                                             Senator.
                           
                                     Isaac is with her. Have been attending some
                                    interesting lectures at the Smithsonian Institute and yesterday was at the Navy Yard
                                    in company with Giddings, 
                                        Allen
                                     and Will Woods who is now boarding at our house. Mr, and Mrs. Underwood
                                    and Mrs. U. Jr. called on me a few evenings ago and we discussed many things, some
                                    of the talk being devoted to 
                                        Centerville
                                    .
                        I have bought "Mary Barton" and sent it on today. I think you will
                                    be pleased with it: it has made quite a hit in the Old World as well as in this
                                    country, and I presume you have seen notices of it. The author is the wife of a
                                    Unitarian clergyman in 
                                        England
                                    , but I forget the name.66
                        
                        Mr. Dawson, the owner of our boarding-house, died here this morning very suddenly of
                                    apoplexy.
                        It is considered very probable that Charles Sumner will be elected shortly to the U.
                                    S. Senate. It may be that Giddings will be [elected] from 
                                        Ohio
                                    , though this is more uncertain.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Dec. 31, 1850
                                
                        This is the last message of affection from me that will hail you from the first half
                                    of the 19th century! Where shall you and I be fifty years hence? If I had time I
                                    would "moralize like a death's head." I do feel sad
                                    when I think of the flight of time.
                        Have not yet had time to go to the jeweller's about your bracelets. Will
                                    get Miss Bremer's new worke67 and mail to you when I
                                    go down on the Avenue.
                        I went with Judge Allen last Friday evening to the Levee. The President is very
                                    affable and promenades with the company in the East room. So does his lady, likewise
                                    the daughter, who is not handsome.
                        As to the prospect of my re-election to Congress I get rather discouraging news from
                                    political friends at home. Owing to divisions among the Whigs however I am myself
                                    not without hope, but my resolution is, and let, it be a "joint
                                    resolution" with us, that if I am to be retired we will not only make a
                                    virtue of necessity, but do it cheerfully.
                        "A Happy New Year!"
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Jan. 2, 1851
                                
                        According to promise I must give you a history of my doings on the first day of the
                                    new-born year. In company with Giddings and Durkee I first called at Dr.
                                    Bailey's where we refreshed ourselves with coffee, cakes, raisins,
                                    lemonade &c. The doctor has moved on to E St. and purchased one of the
                                    finest houses there. He is evidently getting to be one of the city's
                                    aristocracy. A beautiful life-size portrait of "Grace Greenwood"
                                    hangs in a gilt frame above his mantel. We next called to see Senator 
                                        Benton
                                    ,68 who happened not to be at home, but his lady and
                                    daughter received us and we were treated to apple-toddy, egg-nog, &c. 
                              
                                 66 Mrs. Elizabeth C. Gaskell, friend of Charlotte
                                            Bronte, whose life she afterwards wrote. Her most famous work was Cranford.
                              
                              
                                 67 Probably Neighbors which had just
                                            appeared in a fifth edition.
                              
                                 68 Thomas H. 
                                                Benton
                                             of 
                                                Missouri
                                             was serving his last term in the U. S. Senate of which he had
                                            been a member for thirty years. His daughter married Col. John C. Fremont,
                                            first candidate of the Republican party for President.
                           
                                     They are horribly homely and not interesting.
                                    We then went to the President's where we found a much greater jam than a
                                    year ago. With difficulty we passed through the different rooms, shaking hands with
                                    the President, Henry Clay and others. General Scott was there in full military dress
                                    and made a fine appearance, attracting more attention than any one else except Clay.
                                    I returned home tired enough. But when Mrs. Underwood called and invited Will Woods
                                    and me to take tea with them I sallied forth again. We were feasted to all sorts of
                                    music, the whole family joining either with instruments or voices, and the exercises
                                    were concluded by the appearance of Harriet and Jack69 disguised
                                    in the most hideous false faces, who sang and danced. It was a lively evening and I
                                    returned home at nine o'clock. Mrs. Underwood informed me that Mary
                                    Barker was married about two weeks ago to a Mr. Keys of 
                                        Baltimore
                                    , wealthy and respectable.
                        I was at the book-store today and bought Miss Martineau's
                                    "Household Education" which I will mail to you tomorrow.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Jan. 6, 1851
                                
                        ….. Last evening I called at Mr. Cushman's to see Miss Loring
                                    of 
                                        Boston
                                    , but she had gone to church. She has just come to town bringing a
                                    letter of introduction to me from Dr. Stone, one of my special friends there. I
                                    called again today and accompanied her and Miss Cushman to the Capitol, showing them
                                    sundry little attentions. I am to conduct them this evening to the Institute to hear
                                    the lectures. I fear I shall be under the necessity of taking them
                                    to the Levee next Friday (of course at some expense), but as Dr. Stone was
                                    exceedingly kind to me when I was in 
                                        Boston
                                     I must do what I can to show my appreciation.
                        I raised quite an excitement in the House today by presenting a petition from the
                                    Yearly Meeting of Antislavery Friends in Indiana praying the repeal of the Fugitive
                                    Slave law. I succeeded in having it read and in getting the yeas and nays on
                                    receiving it. Of course there was a hubbub and I was denounced for stirring up
                                    "agitation." Our own delegation is down on me….. I will
                                    send you a Globe70 containing the proceedings.
                        I believe I have not told you that I have been for some time preparing a speech on
                                    the Public Lands. I am nearly through with it and will soon try to get the floor if
                                    we can get up the bill before us on the subject.71
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Jan. 9, 1851
                                
                        Yours of Jan. 2 came to hand in due time, but I don't think you receive
                                    nearly all my letters as I write of many things you never mention. 
                              
                                 69 Children of the Underwoods.
                              
                                 70 The Congressional Globe is meant.
                              
                                 71 The bill was introduced on January 23 by Andrew 
                                                Johnson
                                             of 
                                                Tennessee
                                             from the Committee on Agriculture. Mr. Julian got the floor six
                                            days later, largely through Mr. 
                                                Johnson
                                            's friendly help. They had talked over the subject
                                            during the previous session.
                           
                                     There is great irregularity in the mails so far
                                    as my correspondence with Jacob [Julian] is concerned.
                        
                        We had another fuss in the House on Tuesday as you will see by the Globe I send you,
                                    arising from a motion made by me to correct the journal of the previous day. The 
                                        
                                            Union
                                        
                                     and Republic are giving me jesse for stirring up
                                    "agitation" and trying to destroy the 
                                        Union
                                    . My doings will doubtless strengthen the efforts of the hunkers of both
                                    the old parties to put me down. I see you expect to drive around with me in
                                    canvassing the district next summer, but I think the prospect much better for
                                    quitting politics entirely. I mean to take the straightforward course without regard
                                    to consequences.
                        I have twice accompanied Miss Loring and Miss Cushman to the Institute lectures and
                                    am to go with them to the Levee tomorrow evening. I received two cards today from
                                    Mr. Webster,72 one of them being sent, I suppose, in the belief
                                    that you were here. I therefore send it to you. I have also received the
                                    accompanying regulations of the Dancing Academy which you may like to look over.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Jan. 11, 1861
                                
                        I have nothing to write today but some account of my feats in gallantry and wonderful
                                    adventures last evening. I am taking your advice about going into company and
                                    avoiding the "mopes," and if you will hold your breath now and
                                    promise not to be jealous I will proceed.
                        At 8 o'clock Mr. Durkee and myself by previous arrangement got into the
                                    hack of Senator Foote's brother and drove to Mr. Cushman's,
                                    Mr. Durkee taking charge of Miss Cushman and I of Miss Loring. We had a pleasant
                                    chat on the way to the Presidential mansion and when we reached there we took the
                                    number of Master Foote's hack and went in. After our ladies had arranged
                                    their toilets we marched into the reception room, the way being led by a Mr. Thayer
                                    and Miss Brown who also went from Mr. Cushman's. The President saluted us
                                    very cordially. He knew me and after I had introduced Miss Loring he observed that
                                    he was "glad to see the East and West united." We then passed on
                                    to where Miss Fillmore [the President's daughter] was standing and I
                                    bowed to her and introduced Miss Loring. She appears very affable and graceful. We
                                    next went into the East Room where we saw the most brilliant gathering I have ever
                                    seen at a levee. The evening was mild and beautiful and everybody seemed to be there
                                    and very happy. We soon met General 
                                        Houston
                                     and had considerable chat with the old fellow who is very bland and
                                        polite.73 Passing round on the promenade (promenad they call
                                    it here) we presently saw General 
                                        Scott
                                     talking with Mr. McLanahan who introduced us to the old General who
                                    chatted with us a short time. He is two or three inches taller than I am, and has a
                                    very stern look but with an expression of benevolence mingled with it. 
                              
                                 72 Daniel Webster was now Secretary of State, having
                                            accepted the first place in the Cabinet after Fillmore became President.
                              
                                 73 Sam Houston was then a 
                                                United States
                                             Senator from 
                                                Texas
                                            .
                           
                                     I liked him decidedly.74 We
                                    met and conversed with divers others of less note in the East room which after
                                    awhile became too warm, and we took up our march in the large hall where it was
                                    cooler. "Grace Greenwood" was just leaving the hall in company
                                    with Dr. Bailey, but bowed gracefully, and a half hour later left the promenade to
                                    cross the room to where we were standing. She then had the arm of William D.
                                    Gallagher of 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    . She has just arrived in the city, having been detained in 
                                        Philadelphia
                                     by illness. There is always an expression of sadness in her countenance
                                    even when engaged in sprightly conversation. There is a lurking sarcasm too in the
                                    curl of her lip. I wish you could see her. Well, we enjoyed the evening as everybody
                                    seemed to till after ten and after bowing to the President and his daughter we left
                                    for our hack. The darkeys rushed round us crying "Hack, sir!"
                                    "Hack, gentlemen" &c, but our man Foote did not appear.
                                    Durkee told one of them we wanted Foote. He raised the cry
                                    "Foote!" "Foote!" and just then the Senator
                                    [Foote] came along, creating a roar of laughter. Our Foote at
                                    length drove up and we reached home in safety; and so ends my long yarn.
                        Later. At the close of the above Dr. Bailey sent up his card and on going to the
                                    parlor I found his errand was to invite all of us Free Soilers to his home Saturday
                                    night for talk and a cup of coffee. The invitation is for every
                                    Saturday night of the session.
                        Tom Thumb is in town creating some excitement. I saw his little ponies today, about
                                    as large as large dogs, hitched to his little hack which is about the size of the
                                    little wagons children are hauled in. He has an out-rider about his size and he sits
                                    inside. This may interest Channing.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Jan. 15, 1851
                                
                        I did not enjoy the party at Dr. Bailey's: it was too formal, and I do not
                                    like so much standing around and eating. Durkee and I called earlier in the evening
                                    to see our friends at Mr. Cushman's and were there introduced to a number
                                    of pleasant folks. Mr. Cushman teaches a school of young ladies in an apartment of
                                    his own house and they were all in the parlor in the most frolicsome mood. Some of
                                    them are handsome, and all seem intelligent. I bade Miss Loring good-bye, as she
                                    leaves tomorrow for her home, but it would not do for me to report what she told me
                                    some of the ladies at the levee said about me. So I will keep that: it might make
                                    you vain, or peradventure it would make you think me so! I expect
                                    to call on Mrs. Woolley some day this week; but perhaps you will think it about time
                                    to slacken my social pace a little. Giddings and Allen are both scolding and
                                    threatening to write you on the subject. They make much sport of the gallantry of
                                    Durkee and myself.
                        I am awaiting with great anxiety the result of the 
                                        Massachusetts
                                     election for Senator. I fear the coalition between the Democrats and
                                        
                              
                                 74 General Winfield Scott, then 65 years of age. was
                                            to be the Whig candidate for the Presidency the following year. James X.
                                            McLanahan was then a Representative in Congress from 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                            .
                           
                                     Free Soilers will break up and Sumner be
                                    defeated. Much depends upon this in other States. I am also anxious to know who is
                                    chosen judge at home.
                        A gentleman is now here entertaining folks with Shakespeare readings and I mean to
                                    hear him tomorrow night. We are having the most delightful weather imaginable for
                                    some weeks past, no rain or mud, mild balmy atmosphere and clear moonlight nights. I
                                    begin to think this is about the pleasantest climate in the 
                                        United States
                                     and one of the most desirable places to live.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Jan. 18, 1851
                                
                        ….. After visiting several jewellers I yesterday succeeded in getting your
                                    bracelets and hope they will please you. The lockets are plain and have only
                                    "A. E. J." on them, there being no room for more. If these are not
                                    just what you wanted we shall have to try to get some one more skilled in
                                    "small matters" to help US out next time.
                        Mr. Durkee and I called last night on Mrs. Southworth and talked till bed-time. I
                                    left your album for her autograph. We discussed religion, slavery, politics
                                    generally, phrenology, the 
                                        Rochester
                                     knockings, &c, and I was more charmed than ever with her
                                    conversational gifts. When I get home I will tell you as much as I can remember of
                                    her thoughts and words. Her "Shannondale" is now at the
                                    book-stores.
                        I went to hear the Shakespeare readings, but was not particularly impressed.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Jan. 22, 1851
                                
                        We had a glorious time at Dr. Bailey's last Saturday night, the most rollicking time I have known in 
                                        Washington
                                    . There were a good many present, most of whom left about ten
                                    o'clock, those who remained being Root, Preston King, Bingham, Chase and
                                    myself, also "Grace Greenwood," a niece of Mr. Chase and another
                                    lady, both of whose names I have forgotten, and Mrs. Bailey.75
                                    The first exercise was fortune telling, which I shall not attempt to describe but
                                    will tell you all about it when I come home. Then commenced blind-folding one
                                    another and trying to blow out the candle after turning around three times at a
                                    certain distance from it… I have not laughed so much in months. I find
                                    that "Grace Greenwood" considers Wendell Phillips far superior to
                                    Sumner. I was pleased when she told me that Mr. Phillips is warmly my friend.
                        At the Circus the other night in the old Theatre, the floor fell several feet,
                                    everybody being badly frightened and some bruised, but nobody killed. I had planned
                                    to go, but went instead to see "Whipple's Dissolving Panoramic
                                    Views," on 7th Street, a very splendid sight.
                        A Miss Curtis from 
                                        Lowell
                                    , Mass. is now at our house, corresponding for several newspapers. She
                                    sits next me at table and we have considerable 
                              
                                 75 Joseph M. Root. a Free Soiler, was a member of the
                                            House from 
                                                Ohio
                                            . Preston King was a "Barnburner" Democrat of 
                                                New York
                                             who joined the Free Soilers with Van Buren in 1848. He was
                                            elected to the House in that year. K. S. Bingham was a Democratic member of
                                            the House from 
                                                Michigan
                                            .
                           
                                     talk. She says that the Woman's
                                    Rights folks think a good deal of me because they judge from Mrs.
                                    Swisshelm's article76 that I am a favorite with my
                                    own wife!
                        Jacob writes me that Morton is not elected judge and that Elliott
                                    & Poor Ob! He must feel blue enough.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Jan. 27, 1851
                                
                        A letter from Uncle Henry Hoover gives a gloomy picture of our Free Soil prospects.
                                    Things look unpromising, but I do not rely implicitly upon his judgment. If I can
                                    succeed at all next summer it will be by firmness, unanimity and faith on the part of the Free Soilers. Some of them are discouraged by the
                                    backward tendency of things, and this is likely to be the trouble. If they give up
                                    in despair of course they can't influence the action of the old parties.
                                    I am sorry they have not a little more pluck. Free Soil friends here are decidedly
                                    in favor of my going into the fight at all hazards, and they think that whether
                                    successful or not I will in the long run be the gainer.
                        On last Thursday evening Mr. Durkee and I accompanied Miss Susan Underwood, Mrs. Torn
                                    Underwood, and her sister Miss Wilson to the levee. They were the best-looking
                                    ladies there. Mrs. Underwood is creating quite a sensation at the levees and in the
                                    galleries of the house by her beauty. She is intelligent and agreeable too. There
                                    was a great crowd at the levee, but I saw nothing of special interest. They were
                                    nearly all strangers. Will Woods was there in company with his friend John Williams
                                    who is about exhibiting his Bible Panorama. He is a portrait painter and used to
                                    live in 
                                        Wayne
                                     County. His panorama is said to be the finest in the world and he has
                                    sent me a ticket.
                        We had a pleasant time at Dr. Bailey's last evening. Among other notable
                                    personages present there was a Polish lady, Madame Iazello, who came over to this
                                    country with Gen. Ughizey, and her conversation was interesting.
                        I am again becoming sick of Congress and begin to feel as I did during the long
                                    dreary months of last summer. I am tired of this way of living, having a wife, a
                                    child and a home, and yet separated from them.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Feb. 1, 1851
                                
                        By a good deal of adroitness and some good luck I finally succeeded in getting the
                                    floor last Tuesday on the public land question. I did not however speak till
                                    Wednesday. The speech appears in the Globe and will in a few days be published in
                                    pamphlet form. I think it a creditable speech, but have not time to say more at
                                    present.
                        The weather has turned severely cold: it seems to me I never knew it colder at home.
                        
                           
                              76 Jane G. Swisshelm, noted Woman Suffrage advocate,
                                        edited The Saturday Visitor of Pittsburg. In 1857 she removed
                                        to St. Cloud, Minn., where she became the editor of the St. Cloud Republican, a Republican paper.
                        
                        
                        The sudden death of a member of the House yesterday, David S. Kaufman of 
                                        Texas
                                    , has made quite a sensation among us. He was a young man of robust
                                    appearance who apparently had as fair a prospect of years and honors as any man in
                                    our body. He died of some heart affection.
                        I see by the papers that Miss Bremer77 has been travelling in the
                                    South and has had the wool pulled over her eyes by the slaveholders. She has
                                    recently written a letter in favor of the American Colonization Society.
                        I send you a copy of my speech. Members have already subscribed for nine thousand
                                    copies and I presume it will be in the Democrat and Jeffersonian at home.78
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Feb. 6, 1851
                                
                        I heard an interesting lecture the other night by Dr. Fiske on Mesmerism and Biology
                                    and witnessed most wonderful exhibitions about which I will tell you more hereafter.
                        At the hazard of making you jealous I must tell you more about Miss Curtis who boards
                                    here. It seems she is the author of "Kate in Search of a Husband,"
                                    "S. S. S. Philosophy" and other works. She has handed me the
                                    latter to read and I think I will send it to you. She is corresponding for the Tribune, Visitor, and other papers, and says she is going to write
                                    you in a day or two. So you will have another 
                                        Washington
                                     correspondent.
                        I have franked off some 2,700 copies of my land speech, and I am going to mail to you
                                    some eight or ten copies of the Congressional Globe and Appendix, for distribution
                                    after I get home, each copy consisting of four large volumes. Do not remove the
                                    wrapping, but pile them in the lumber room where they will be out of the way.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Feb. 10, 1851
                                
                        On Saturday Mr. Durkee and I went with the Underwoods to the Gallery of Paintings and
                                    saw a fine exhibit. And that night we heard Professor Silliman lecture at the
                                    Institute, going later to our weekly gathering at Dr. Bailey's where we
                                    met the usual company.
                        I do not know enough about our new Indiana Constitution to judge of it. Sumner is not
                                    yet elected [Senator], but I still hope he will be. He came within two votes of it
                                    last Thursday.
                        Will Woods called to see me this morning. He seems in good spirits and thinks he will
                                    get all his patents. I can't start home till after the
                                    day of adjournment, say the 4th or 5th of March. I am sorry Centreville is so dull,
                                    but you need not fear that I have lost my love of the quiet of home and that I shall
                                    not be contented on my return. I am sure I shall be unless I am again involved in
                                    the strife of politics. I almost shudder 
                              
                                 77 The Swedish novelist mentioned as having visited 
                                                Washington
                                            . See Julian's letter of June 26, 1860.
                              
                                 78
                                            The True Democrat was Vaile's Free Soil paper
                                            of 
                                                Centerville
                                            . The Jeffersonian was Elder's
                                            Democratic paper of 
                                                Richmond
                                            . Both had supported Julian in his race for Congress in
                                        1849.
                           
                                     at the thought of this and hope for some
                                    honorable mode of deliverance. You may say to Oliver that my present calculation is
                                    to come home by 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                    .
                        I have been getting up a little more fuss today in the House, as you may see by the
                                    papers.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Feb. 15, 1851
                                
                        My cold, the worst I ever had, continues, and now the toothache has set in, so that I
                                    am even more stupid than usual. I am also destitute of news. I am pleased to hear of
                                    Channing's attention to his book and I send him the enclosed coin that I
                                    picked up the other day on the pavement. It is a new coin, composed of silver and
                                    copper and called a three-cent piece. Tell him father sent it to him for minding his
                                    book.
                        I am invited to a large party next Wednesday evening at Mess'rs
                                    King's, two wealthy members from 
                                        New York
                                     who keep house on the President's square, sons of Rufus King
                                    of Revolutionary memory.79 I have neglected to send my card
                                    around, as many others have done, or I should have had more invitations than I
                                    should have cared about. I will look to it hereafter when you and I
                                        come to Congress again together! I should like to go to Dr.
                                    Bailey's tonight and meet all my friends, but don't feel well
                                    enough.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Feb. 20, 1851
                                
                        I attended the Kings' party and enjoyed it very much. They reside in a
                                    splendid mansion, formerly occupied by Van Buren before he was President. Gen. 
                                        Scott
                                     and many distinguished characters were there and the spacious hall in
                                    which the company was received was ornamented by the finest sculptures and paintings
                                    I have seen in a private collection. One painting in particular, a beautiful woman
                                    with "golden locks," particularly attracted me, and Durkee said at
                                    once it was because it looked like you. It certainly does greatly resemble you,
                                    especially as to eyes, forehead and hair. I have observed that paintings of female
                                    beauty very generally represent the hair of my favorite color.
                        The supper exceeded anything I ever saw for variety, elegance and splendor. There
                                    were oysters, herrings, turtles, crabs, quails, duck, in short everything in the
                                    line of meat, as also the finest productions of the baker and confectioner. Besides,
                                    there was an abundance of champagne and other costly drinks, and I dare not tell you how I resisted temptation!—But enough of this.
                        Yesterday Dr. Howe of 
                                        Boston
                                    
                           80 called to see me at the House, and inquired about
                                    you. Mrs. Howe is with him and they are stopping at Willard's. I called
                                    on them last evening, but they were out. I will call again today or tomorrow.
                        By special invitation I went to Dr. Bailey's night before last. On 
                              
                                 79 One of these sons of Rufus King, John A. King, was
                                            a Representative from 
                                                New York
                                            , but the of these other, James G. King, served a district of 
                                                New Jersey
                                            . Each wag a Whig and each served but one term in the House,
                                            1849-1851.
                              
                                 80 Samuel Gridley Howe, in 1850, editor of the 
                                                Boston
                                            
                                            Commonwealth, and his wife Julia Ward Howe. Mrs. Howe was
                                            already an advocate of woman's suffrage and an enemy of slavery.
                                            Later she wrote "The Battle Hymn of the Republic."
                           
                                     entering the room each person was handed the
                                    enclosed bill giving the program of the evening. I soon learned that "Grace
                                    Greenwood" was to be the actress and that the whole affair was to be a
                                    burlesque on modern theatrical and especially Shakespearean doings. She was
                                    inimitable and the audience was convulsed with laughter. I came home about eleven,
                                    as I was tired, leaving the company engaged in blind-man's-bluff and a
                                    new play called fox-and-geese.
                        Miss Curtis told me the other day that she had written you a long and mischievous
                                    letter, which I presume you have received by this time. We Free Soilers did not like
                                    her at first: she is a "doughface." But our dislike has passed
                                    away on better asquaintance. I have sent you The 
                                        Lowell
                                    
                                    American, for which she is correspondent, in which she speaks in
                                    rather flattering terms of us "fanatics." Have confidence in
                                    yourself and you can write her a first rate letter.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Feb. 25, 1851
                                
                        I send you enclosed a letter from the editor of Young America, the
                                    oldest land reformer in the 
                                        United States
                                    . The paper he speaks of having sent has not been received, but when it
                                    comes I will send it to you. I am glad I made that speech and wish I had the means
                                    of circulating it more widely. By the way, some of my recent letters speak more
                                    hopefully of prospects at home. I don't see how I can avoid another
                                    contest, whether there is any prospect of success or not. Either Parker or Newman
                                    will be the Whig candidate [for Congress], and if I don't run there will
                                    be an end of our organization and a voluntary and cowardly surrender to the Whig
                                    hunkers. They would like that a little too well. I guess you must study politics
                                    again and be my oracle as to what is best to be done when I return.81
                        
                        We are holding night sessions now and shall till the adjournment which will probably
                                    be about daylight on next Tuesday morning. I found I would not have time to call on
                                    Mrs. Southworth and have sent a page after your album.
                        My tooth-ache returned so violently that I went to see the dentist day before
                                    yesterday who thought he could cure it by extracting a 
                              
                                 81 A fusion arrangement was again perfected in the
                                            Burnt District in 1851. Julian was once more the candidate of Democrats and
                                            Free Soilers, with Samuel W. Parker again the Whig candidate. This time the
                                            Whigs won. The vote of the district by counties in 1861 and 1849 was as
                                            follows: 
                                    
                                       Fourth District
                                       1851
                                       1849
                                    
                                    
                                       Counties
                                       Julian
                                       Parker
                                       Julian
                                       Parker
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                                        
                                                            Fayette
                                                        
                                                    
                                       681
                                       972
                                       892
                                       938
                                    
                                    
                                       Henry
                                       1433
                                       1439
                                       1373
                                       1441
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                                        
                                                            Union
                                                        
                                                    
                                       610
                                       580
                                       788
                                       506
                                    
                                    
                                       
                                                        
                                                            Wayne
                                                        
                                                    
                                       1816
                                       2111
                                       1734
                                       1698
                                    
                                    
                                       Totals
                                       4540
                                       5102
                                       4787
                                       4583
                                    
                                  The Free Soil vote for President in 1848 for the counties of the
                                            fourth district: 
                                                Fayette
                                            , 86: Henry, 455: 
                                                Union
                                            , 208: 
                                                Wayne
                                            , 839.
                           
                                     neighboring tooth which was decayed. After
                                    pulling five or six times he finally succeeded in getting out one
                                    root, but could not get at the other, He then determined, upon further
                                    examination, that it would be best to take out the tooth which ached, and having
                                    already been sufficiently tortured I consented to inhale ether so as to avoid the
                                    pain. The drowsiness which came on however was not deep enough, and the operation
                                    was horrible. So you see I have had rough handling, but am glad it is over and have
                                    had no further trouble.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Feb. 27, 1851
                                
                        Your letter to Miss Curtis I think is capital, and you have reason to feel more
                                    confidence in yourself and less solicitude as to such ventures. She was much pleased
                                    and quite amused with your observations upon my "gallantry."
                                    Enclosed is a letter just received from Miss Loring, my 
                                        Boston
                                     friend who was here. The present mentioned in it is a rare one and I
                                    will pass it on to you on my return. A friend of hers brought it to me and tells me
                                    Miss Loring is engaged to be married soon.
                        Yesterday morning Mrs. Southworth was in the Library and sent for me to come in. She
                                    handed me your album with a beautiful sentiment of hers written in it on
                                    "Prayer." She is in poor health, and is naturally homely, yet when
                                    her face is lighted up in conversation she becomes quite handsome. She is a noble
                                    woman. She almost worships Dr. Channing, and says she was a hopeless skeptic till
                                    she read his works. All that she is she says she owes to his immortal lecture on
                                    "Self Culture." One of the pages now has your album and is
                                    carrying it around among the members and others. It will be quite a treasure if he
                                    gets all the names on my list.82
                        
                        I did not get to see the Howes after all, for I had not time to make a second call.
                                    There are many things to bother me as +.he session approaches its close. Mr.
                                    —-, brother to Mrs. —-, has requested me to carry home
                                    "a bundle" for him, and being a servant of the people of course I
                                    must do it. I am indeed glad to hear of Dr. Pritchett's safe return. Some
                                    one has sent me a copy OP the 
                              
                                            Wayne
                                         County Whigs
                           83 containing quite a
                                    favorable notice of my speech, and I am puzzled to know what it means. From letters
                                    I receive I find the speech is making me a good many friends from among my
                                enemies.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    March 3, 1851
                                
                        This will be my last letter from the Metropolis, and a very short one. I am almost
                                    worn down with loss of sleep and the hurry and bustle of packing up. We shall sit
                                    all night and probably part of tomorrow to finish the appropriation bills. I never
                                    saw such crowded galleries. AS the time approaches I feel very sorry to part with my
                                    dear Free Soil friends—probably to meet them no more.
                        I sent you a letter the other day from Charles Sumner accompanied by a copy of one
                                    recently addressed by him to the Free Soilers of his 
                              
                                 82 This old album, containing the autographs of thirty
                                            famous persons is before me as I write this note, an interesting reminder of
                                            another age and another people.—G. J. C.
                              
                                 83 A paper published in 
                                                Centerville
                                             by J. B. Stitt. It was formerly the 
                                                Wayne
                                             County Record, established in 1841 by Samuel C.
                                        Meredith.
                           
                                     State. The copied letter and
                                    accompanying notice sent by him of a new English publication you may give to Isaac
                                    [Julian], who I think will be pleased with them.
                        I shall not start home till the morning of the 5th. In order to avoid the jolting and
                                    danger of a trip over the mountains again by stage, I have concluded to go by the
                                    Harrisburg route, which will take me a day longer and bring me home on Tuesday the
                                        11th.84
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  84 As stated in the "Foreword", Mr. and Mrs. Julian,
                        when making the trip to 
                            Washington
                         in 1849, crossed the mountains by stage. Mrs. Julian returned by the 
                            Lake
                         route in June, 1850. Mr. Julian visited New 
                            England
                         after the end of the session near the end of September and traveled to 
                            Centerville
                         from 
                            Boston
                        . He made the journey to 
                            Washington
                         just prior to the short session of 1850-1851 by the same route as that used in 1849
                        taking the stage over the mountains. Beveridge says in his Abraham 
                                Lincoln
                            
                   (I, 398) that Mr. 
                            Lincoln
                         when going to 
                            Washington
                         in 1847. traveled from 
                            Pittsburgh
                         "by rail to 
                            Baltimore
                         and 
                            Washington
                        ". On reading this the question naturally arose why Mr. Julian did not also
                        travel by train from 
                            Pittsburgh
                         to 
                            Washington
                         two and three years later. Investigation reveals that Mr. Beveridge was in error in
                        his statement. It seems that trains were not operated from 
                            Philadelphia
                         to 
                            Pittsburgh
                         until December 10. 1862 (H. W. Schotter, The Growth and Development of
                            the 
                                Pennsylvania
                             Railroad Company. P. 36), or over the 
                            Baltimore
                         and 
                            Ohio
                         to the Ohio River before Christmas Eve, 1862 (Edward
                        Hungerford, The Story of the 
                                Baltimore
                             and 
                                Ohio
                             Railroad, between pp. 266-7, note below illustration). Perhaps Mr.
                        Beveridge meant to say that 
                            Lincoln
                         traveled from 
                            Pittsburgh
                         to 
                            Baltimore
                         and 
                            Washington
                         by rail and canal or by the rail-canal route from the 
                            Ohio
                         to Harrisburgh.
            
         
         
         
            Comment
            For many years, Dr. Amos Shartle Hershey, who died on June 12, 1933, was a member of the faculty of
                    Indiana University. For several years he was a teacher of European history, but his chief interest
                    was in international relations and international law. In 1905 he was made professor of political
                    science and international law. Dr. Hershey traveled extensively viewing conditions at close range in
                    Europe, in the Near East, in the Far East, and in 
                        Mexico
                    . He read widely, and wrote several modest volumes as well as many short articles. His
                    knowledge of and views on international problems were much sought after. He accompanied President
                    Wilson and the other American Peace Commissioners to Versailles where he acted as one of the
                    advisers during the Peace Conference.
            Throughout his career as a teacher and student, Dr. Hershey was an open-minded liberal. His mental
                    processes were so natural, his thinking was so free from bias, he was so ready to learn something
                    from anyone, anywhere, at any time, that his friends never ceased to marvel at his modesty and
                    simplicity, and strangers felt at home with him at once. He knew men, he was shrewd and he possessed
                    a fine sense of humor, but to do or say anything merely for effect or to gain any advantage for
                    himself was completely foreign to his nature. He was an unspoiled, honest man with a fresh, vigorius
                    mind and a rare, genial spirit. Fortunate were those who were privileged to know him. What was said
                    of Nathaniel by the Man of Gallilee could have been said of Amos S. Hershey: "Behold a man
                    in whom is no guile."
            
               Amam That Was and Amana That Is, by Bertha M. H. (Mrs. Benjamin F.) Shambaugh was
                    brought out by the 
                        Iowa
                     State Historical Society near the end of last year. The volume is divided into two
                    parts as the title indicates, the first part, Amana That Was, being largely a
                    reproduction of an earlier volume by the author, Amana, the Community of True
                        Inspiration, which the Society published in 1913. The second part of the present book deals
                    with the Amana community as it is since the reorganization of the society which has taken place
                    since 1930. The story of Amana, a religious society, its successful  experiment in communism and its attempt to solve the problems presented
                    in a new age is well told. The volume is a splendid specimen of the book-maker's art, and
                    many readers will find its contents equally attractive.
            Number 5 of Volume X, Indiana Historical Society Publications, which appeared
                    recently is a study by Cecelia Bain Buechner of the Northern Indiana Historical Society, the title
                    of which is The Pokagons. This monograph forms a pamphlet of fifty-six pages. It
                    is documented, accompanied by a short bibliography, and carries several illustrations including a
                    picture of Simon Pokagon when an old man. "The Red Man's Greeting"
                    which first appeared as the "Red Man's Rebuke", is presented in an
                    appendix. This brief recital of the wrongs suffered by American Indians at the hands of Europeans
                    will interest many. The author's careful work deserves high commendation.
            The commodius and well-appointed new building which will house the Indiana State Library and also the
                    Indiana Historical Society and Historical Bureau is nearing completion. It is conveniently located
                    near the State House, and it is a structure of which the citizens of Indiana may well feel proud. In
                    the Library Occurent for January-March, 1931, there was published an article by
                    Miss Esther U. McNitt, "A Short History of the Indiana State Library". At this
                    time, when the Library is nearing the end of an era and will soon be released from its painfully
                    inadequate quarters in the State House, patrons and all other friends of the institution will find
                    it well worth while to read the historical sketch by Miss McNitt.
            Knowing that readers of the Indiana Magazine of History will be glad to receive the
                    information included in the following paragraphs relating to Territorial Papers, we are glad to
                    insert them here: 
                        The publication of the first three volumes of the Territorial Papers of the 
                                United States
                             has been postponed by reason of the 
                                economy
                             measures of the Government. Appropriations were authorized by Congress in 1925
                            and 1928 for collecting, editing and publishing the official papers, mostly in 
                                Washington
                            , of the territories from which states have been formed. Dr. Newton D. Mereness
                            supervised the collection and the copying of many of these documents. In 1931 Professor
                            Clarence  E. Carter was appointed editor. He has
                            unearthed many important additional documents and has thus far prepared final copy for the
                            first three volumes. The Department of State, which is in charge of the project, planned to
                            issue these first three volumes in the early Autumn but the cutting down of the
                            appropriation of this, and the next fiscal year, necessitates a delay.
                        These volumes include a short preliminary introduction to the series, and papers concerning
                            the Northwest Territory. They will be held in type until funds shall be made available. Copy
                            for volumes embodying the official papers of the Southwest, 
                                Mississippi
                            , and Indiana Territories which are almost, if not quite ready for publication,
                            will be withheld, pending the passage of appropriations by Congress. In the meantime, the
                            Department of State is carrying forward the preparation of copy for other volumes.
                    
            
            The Indiana Magazine of History is published quarterly by Indiana University, the
                    numbers being issued as of March, June, September, and December. The Editor is a
                    regular member of the staff of the history department of the University. The Magazine is printed by the Indiana University Press. Each issue should be ready to mail by the
                    end of the month in which it is scheduled to appear. Unavoidable delays frequently occur, however,
                    and issues sometimes appear from four to six weeks late. Individual subscribers and libraries can
                    count on receiving copies of the Karch issue by the end of April, of the June number by the end of
                    July, of the September number by the end of October and of the December number by the first of
                    January. That is, we are quite regular in our irregularity, from which we derive some consolation,
                    and trust that our readers may also be able to extract comfort from the fact that they can predict
                    with a fair degree of accuracy the date when any issue is likely to be received.
            Contributors to this issue: Paul V. McNutt is the Governor of Indiana. For several years he was Dean
                    of the Law School of Indiana University, and he was National Commander of the American Legion,
                    1928-1929. Leslie H. Meeks is head of the Department of English in the Indiana State Teachers
                    College, 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Glen A. Black of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . is a geologist, who is much interested in archaeology. Donald F. Carmony is an
                    instructor in history in Indiana Central College, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Howard R. Burnett of 
                        Vincennes
                     is principal of a township high school near that city. Julia LeClerc Knox, a frequent
                    contributor, is a teacher of Latin in the 
                    
                        Crawfordsville
                     High School. Mrs. Grace Julian Clarke of 
                        Indianapolis
                     (
                        Irvington
                    ) is well known to our readers. She is a daughter of George W. Julian.
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired publications may write to the
                        Indium Magazine of History.
            
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more copies of the following
                    numbers:
            
               
                  ∗Volume I, 3, 4 (Sept., Dee., 1905).
               Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
               Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907)
               Volume IV, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1908).
               Volume V, 2, 3, 4 (June, Sept., Dec., 1909).
               Volume VI, 1, 3, 4 (March, Sept., Dec., 1910).
               Volume VII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1911).
               Volume VIII, 1, 2, 4 (March, June, Dee., 1912).
               Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
               
                  ∗Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
               
                  ∗Volume XVII, 4 (Dee. 1921).
               Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
               Volume XXII, 1 (March, 1926).
            
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries or individuals who
                    may desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied at fifty cents a copy, or
                    two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four
                    dollars per volume. Issues from 1905-1913, when they can be supplied at all, will be sold at one
                    dollar and a half per number.
            
            The Indiana University Library needs the following publications to complete its files. Anyone having
                    any of these publications will confer a great favor by writing to W. A. Alexander, Librarian of
                    Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            
                    The Indiana Alumnus
                    
                  Volume VI, 14 (Dec. 25, 1926). Wanted 3 copies.
                  Volume VI, 16 (Jan. 16, 1927). Wanted 2 copies.
               
                
            
               The Indiana University Catalogue. The University also needs the following to fill
                    out the files. 
                  1832-1833. Wanted 3 copies.
                  1833-1834. Wanted 3 copies.
                  1834-1835. Wanted 3 copies.
                  1836-1837. Wanted 2 copies.
                  1837-1838. Wanted 2 copies.
                  1839-1840. Wanted 2 copies.
                  1840-1841. Wanted 2 copies.
                  1843-1844. Wanted 2 copies.
                  1849-1850. Wanted 2 copies.
                  1853-1854. Wanted 2 copies.
               
            
            
               The Indiam School Journal. Wanted Volume XXXVII (1892) and Volume XXXVIII (1893).
            
               The Mennonite Quarterly Review. Wanted a copy of Vol. I, number 1.
         
      
      
         
      
   
