
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 9, Issue 4, pages 215-316. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:9+issue:4+year:1913&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            LOCAL LIFE AND COLOR IN THE NEW PURCHASE
            JAMES ALBERT WOODBURN Professor of American History and Politics, Indiana University
            [This paper was prepared for the History Society of 
                        Wabash
                     College and was read before that organization on the evening of
                    June 9, 1913. It was also read before the Teachers' Institutes of 
                        Jennings
                     and 
                        Miami counties
                    , and before the 
                        Monroe County
                     Historical Society.]
            IN 1818 the 
                        United States
                     Government obtained by treaty with several tribes of Indians what
                    is known in Indiana history as the "New Purchase." The land
                    came from the Pottawatomies, the Miamis, the Delawares, and a few other tribes,
                    and a lump sum of $13,000 and perpetual annuities in silver money of
                    over $8,000 were offered in return. No doubt this silver came in
                    handy to the traders at Indian posts who afterwards had gewgaws, dry goods and
                    wet goods to offer to the Indian braves and their squaws, who, though most of
                    their people were passing beyond the "Father of Waters," were
                    still lingering in the favorite hunting grounds and around the graves of their
                    warriors and chieftains in this Hoosier country. This "New
                    Purchase" was a tract of land bounded on the north and west by the
                        Wabash river; on the southwest by what is known as the
                    "eleven o'clock line," a line going in the direction
                    a shadow would fall at eleven o'clock forenoon, and running from the
                    center of 
                        Jackson county
                     to a point on the 
                        Wabash
                     near 
                        Clinton
                    . Thirty-seven counties have since been made, in whole or in part,
                    from the lands embraced in this purchase. When the Indian titles were
                    extinguished and the new lands were opened to settlement the immigrant tide of
                    humanity began to pour in. The Government land was offered at $2.00
                    an acre. It was lowered to $1.25 after 1820 and thus was followed the
                    wise policy of encouraging settlement. The credit system had been put into
                    operation in 1801, by which a settler who could not pay cash for his land might
                    enter it and pay for  it by installments
                    after he had settled upon and begun to work it. The homestead policy instituted
                    later was even more liberal to the homeseeker, but the fact that one could
                    preempt land and have a chance finally to own it in fee simple brought many
                    enterprising and hopeful men to a region which was looked upon as an Eldorado,
                    if not of gold and silver, at least of rich and productive lands. Some shiftless
                    and "onery movers" came who, it seems, expected the land to
                    support them without much work. Some had not yet got a start in worldly goods;
                    others after starting had been set back in the contraction and hard times
                    following the War of 1812. They had risked their capital during the War in the
                    manufactures of that era and when peace came and English imports again poured in
                    they were ruined. The tragic and woful panic of 1819 sent jobless workmen and
                    landless and bankrupt debtors to the West in droves and the New Purchase
                    received its share of the hardy and worthy pioneers who were coming to the West
                    to seek out new fortunes and to grow up with the country. These people were
                    mostly poor; many of them were ignorant; but most of them were men and women of
                    the fundamental virtues,—courage, honesty, hospitality, and a sense
                    of honor; and many of them were hard headed and far seeing enough, as they began
                    to take up government land, to follow the suggestion of Mandy Means to her old
                    man,—to "git a plenty while you are gittin
                    ’." So this purchase opened up to settlement on easy terms a
                    large strip of virgin soil. Indiana was then only two years old as a State. It
                    contained a population of about 70,000, practically all of whom were below the
                    old National Road.
            Two years later, in 1820, the Legislature at Corydon created what was named in
                    the act as "The Indiana Seminary," which in 1828 became the
                    "Indiana College," and in 1838 the "Indiana
                    University," by legal title. The creative act of 1820 was saved in the
                    State Senate only by the casting vote of the Lieutenant Governor, Ratliff Boon,
                    and it was signed by the first Governor of the State, Jonathan Jennings. Six
                    trustees were appointed and they selected a site for the Seminary, a quarter of
                    a mile due south of Bloom-ington on a beautiful eminence and convenient to an
                    excellent spring of water. It seems that springs of living water were in those
                    days essential features to a settlement, and the settlers and movers kept moving
                    until they found one. Log cabins, whether of hewed logs or round, could be put
                    up in short order by the pioneers in those days, but it took three years to
                    erect the two small brick 
                    
                  INDIANA IN 1818, INCLUDING THE NEW PURCHASE. PREPARED BY DR. E. V. SHOCKLEY
                  
               
                     buildings with which the Seminary
                    began,—one a house for a professor at a cost of $891, the
                    other the Seminary building itself 60x30 feet at the elaborate cost of
                    $2,400.
            The old State Seminary opened its doors for students in 1824. In the fall of
                    1823, as the buildings were nearing completion, the first professor was elected.
                    He was a young man who had appeared in Indiana, like a star out of the East, a
                    short time before and he was now placed in charge of the young Hoosier hopefuls
                    who were seeking to qualify for the college benches in this rustic school in the
                    wilderness. The young man was Baynard R. Hall, a Presbyterian clergyman, a
                    graduate of Union College, and of 
                        Princeton
                     Theological Seminary. He had been living for about a year with his
                    brother-in-law and other friends on White River near
                    Gosport, and there he had entered with spirit and sympathy into all the life of
                    the backwoods. He had become a skilled marksman with the rifle; he learned the
                    art of rolling logs; he had become a skilled and practiced hand at the wood
                    choppings; he learned the manners of the quilting parties; he had become an
                    interested spectator but never a participant at the pioneer camp-meetings; he
                    clerked in a country store, ground bark in a tannery, driving "Old
                    Dick" on the tread-mill; he preached some; and, according to his own
                    testimony he was "the very first man since the creation of the world
                    that read Greek in the New Purchase,"—which, of course, is
                    doubtful, as some Jesuit Fathers had been in this region, and other Protestant
                    ministers versed in the classics had set foot in these parts. But Hall, no
                    doubt, was an excellent classical scholar, and as Professor Wylie says,
                    "a persuasive and sometimes eloquent preacher." He now
                    accepted a teacher's place in the new Seminary at the munificent salary
                    of $250 a year,—the year consisting of two terms of five
                    months each,—the fees to the students being five dollars a term. This
                    scholar had accepted the appointment, not for the paltry salary attached, but
                    wholly because he longed to be in the romantic West and among its earliest
                    literary pioneers. His labors showed forth his enthusiasm and his missionary
                    zeal. Five and six hours a day were usually spent in the recitation room. He
                    always preached twice on Sunday and usually several times during the week and
                    his ministrations to the sick and the dying were additional burdens to the
                    flesh.
            This young man of college culture—of "book larnin,"
                    as his neighbors would say,—lived in our new country almost a decade
                    of years and after he had gone back to his home in the East he  wrote about what he had seen and heard, a book
                    which is well known to those who have studied early Indiana history. It is
                    called The New Purchase, or Seven and a Half Years in the Far
                        West,1 the-author appearing under the pseudonym of
                    Robert Carlton. I feel that I am justified in calling this an immortal book to
                    Indianians, and an enduring memorial to the name of its author. I say this not
                    because of its literary excellence, nor because of the human interest attaching
                    to its stories, as some of them may be more or less fictitious and exaggerated;
                    nor do I say so because this is a book well known to fame. Comparatively few
                    people know anything of it. But I call it an immortal book because it contains
                    valuable history of this Hoosier land in its early beginnings; because it
                    relates in graphic and racy style personal adventures, western scenes and
                    character, college jealousies and dissensions, the state of popular culture, or
                    lack of culture, and various incidents in the life of this new country in early
                    days It will, therefore, live as long as interest in early Indiana history lives
                    and we certainly believe this interest will prove immortal.
            Here was a young man, a transient dweller in the land, who had eyes to see, with
                    a social and cultured background, with a power to discriminate and to
                    distinguish the significant; and above all he had the virtue of intent and
                    industry (for which Heaven be praised!) to write down what he saw and
                    understood, to preserve it for us, for history, and for posterity I have had a
                    copy of that book for twenty years,—of the first and valuable
                    edition, published by the Appletons in 1843.2 And while I
                    have repeatedly looked into it and have known something of its contents, it was
                    only a few weeks ago that I read it with care,—since the recent
                    revival of interest in Indiana history. It is not my purpose to review its
                    contents, nor to estimate its merits; but rather to draw from it and from a few
                    other sources some account of local scenes and color in Hoosierdom of nearly 100
                    years ago.
            Hall says that weary of a prosaic life in the East he came west to find a life of
                    poetry and romance amid the rangers of the woods. He found poetry here, as well
                    as a mission. In his day-dreams he heard the call of the wild, and felt the
                    resistless invitation to an enchanting land in what was then known as the
                    "Far West." He confesses to the ambition to be numbered among
                    the literary pioneers 
                  
                     1 Published by D. Appleton & Co., 
                                New York
                            , and George S. Appleton, 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 2 vols., 1843.
                  
                     2 A second edition was published by John R.
                            Nunemacher, of 
                                New Albany
                            , in cooperation with D. Appleton & Co. and J. B.
                            Lippincott & Co., in 1855.
               
                     of this Hoosier land. That ambition he has
                    realized. One wonders whether he had an Abrahamic vision and promise of a
                    literary progeny that was to be, as we have seen, like the sands of the sea for
                    the multitude.
            Hall had suffered deep domestic affliction in the loss of children, and he had
                    encountered sore disappointment in the utter crushing of his high hopes and
                    purposes. So the new West was to be a new life to him. He affirms that he came
                    influenced by disinterested motives, fired with enthusiasm for advancing solid
                    learning, desirous of seeing western institutions rival those of the East,
                    willing to live and die in the new country, to sacrifice eastern tastes and
                    prejudices, and to become in every proper way a western man. College jealousies
                    and quarrels were destined to cut short these hopes and
                    expectations—which may serve to remind us again that there is a great
                    deal of human nature in men, and even among college professors in their
                    missionary labors. So Mr. and Mrs. Hall, lured partly by the spirit of romance
                    and adventure, were persuaded to exchange the tasteless and crowded solitude of 
                        Philadelphia
                     for the entrancing and real loneliness of the wilds,—the
                    promenade of dead brick for the living carpet of the natural meadow.
            From 
                        Philadelphia
                     to 
                        Pittsburgh
                     was a journey of several days. But the Halls would not travel on
                    the Sabbath. So it was arranged that they should start early Monday morning at 3
                    o'clock. But the porter of the stage office aroused them at 1
                    o'clock, and at this wee small hour of the morning they followed their
                    man to the stage coach office, the man trundling their luggage in an antiquated
                    wheelbarrow. Such were the conveniences and pleasures of travel in the days
                    before the rail.
            The traveler describes the stage coach of his day,—a lumbering thing,
                    with its rack, its cramming, and jamming, and bumping, its lurches and its
                    plunges,—a crazy, rattling, rickety old machine, swaying and jolting
                    until its passengers were bruised and mellowed into a quaking lump of silent
                    sullen victims. The winged horses moved nearly three miles per hour. They
                    stopped at watering places, letting-out places, letting-in places, grog stations
                    and post offices,—all stops giving them the flavor of the stable with
                    the smell of gin and apple whiskey, with the fragrance of cigars that were
                    bought six for a penny. There were the fumes of peppermint, too, and of spicy
                    ginger bread and unctious cold sausage.
            From 
                        Pittsburgh
                     the Halls came down the 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                        Louisville
                    .  They started overland from
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     on a two-horse Yankee cart, with what was called their
                    "plunder," to find the seat of learning on the edge of the New
                    Purchase about 120 miles from the river. Here was their first lesson of forest
                    travelling,—in "butter-milk land," "spouty
                    land," "marshland," "rooty and snaggy
                    land," of mudholes, and "corduroys," of single and
                    double twill, through the fords of streams with, and without, bottoms. It was in early spring when concealed rivulets bubbled up
                    where none were supposed to lurk; when creeks were turned into rivers and rivers
                    into lakes and lakes into larger ones. Travelling by land became travelling by
                    water; that is, by mud and water. So if one were to avoid drowning he had to
                    follow the blazed road. That is, he had to tack, to find, not
                    a road, but a place where there was no road, untouched mud thick enough to bear,
                    or that had some bottom to it. The "good roads movement" is a
                    modern development and you may be sure that our fathers in their attempts at
                    travel put up with a good deal in the way of discomforts and inconveniences. To
                    make a State from primitive conditions is no small enterprise.
            On the second day by incessant driving the Halls made twenty
                    miles by sunset, or a mile and a half an hour, and then found that it was
                    still three miles to the next tavern by way of the blaze, but by a
                    "most powerfullest road," as an old settler told them. Instead
                    of pressing on by dark they staid for the night at the cabin at which they had
                    stopped to inquire,—a veritable cabin in the forest amid the
                    deafening clangor of innumerable rude frogs in the mires, and the whirl and hum
                    and buzz of strange savage insects and reptiles; amid chilly and damp and foetid
                    vapours, the only open field being the clearing filled with
                    trunks of deadened trees and great stumps blackened by the fires.
            Hall describes the cabin as "a barbarous rectangle of unhewed and
                    unbarked logs," bound together by gigantic dovetailing called notching.
                    The roof was of rickety shingles, called clapboards, which
                    when clapped on were held down by longitudinal poles kept
                    apart by shorter pieces placed between them perpendicularly. The interstices of
                    the log wall were "chinked," the chinking being large chips
                    and small slabs dipping like strata of geologic rock, and then on the chinking
                    was the daubing,—a yellow clay ferociously splashed in soft by the
                    hand of the architect and then left to harden at leisure. Rain and frost had
                    here, however, caused the daubing to disappear so that from without could
                    clearly be discerned the light of fire and 
                    candle, and from within the light of sun, moon, and stars, a very fair and
                    harmless tit for tat.3
            
            The cabin had one room, a loft above, but with no visible ascent. The room
                    contained beds chiefly, a table, "stick chairs," and some
                    stools with two or three legs apiece. Over the mantle were the rifles and the
                    powder horns. About the fireplace was the iron ware,—the kettle, the
                    pot, the skillet, and the Dutch oven. One of these primitive log cabins might
                    have been erected for ten dollars. The labor counted for nothing; no one was
                    paid,—except by exchange of labor at house raisings. The cabin
                    enclosed a space perhaps 20 feet square. Neither nail nor spike entered into the
                    structure. The door,—no real cabin had more than one,—had
                    been hung, not with iron, but with broad hinges of tough bacon skin. These the
                    dogs of the place, and they were always numerous, smelled and gnawed clear off.
                    Then came half-tanned leather for hinges; then wooden hinges. It was not an iron
                    age, nor a region of imported manufactured goods. The problem of transportation
                    had yet to be solved.
            There were several kinds of log cabins. First, the scotched
                    order. In this the logs were hacked longitudinally, a slice being taken from one
                    side, the primitive bark being left on the other sides. Second, the hewed order, in which the logs were dressed on four sides. Third, the
                    rough stick-out-comer order,—the logs being unhewn
                    and unscotched, with the ends projecting at the corners. On these ends were hung
                    horse collars, gears, dish towels and bedding and other appurtenances of the
                    household.
            As for a window, a log was omitted on one side and through this longitudinal
                    aperture came light and wind, the space being closed at times, at first with a
                    blanket and later with a clapboard shutter.
            For rooms and partitions in the cabin what more was needed than a carpet hung
                    from a stout pole running from side to side of the enclosed space? The spaces
                    could be subdivided by other carpets and by buffalo robes. There could be a bed
                    in each space with 12 inches to spare for fixing and
                    unfixing,—affording much ampler space than a lower berth in a modern
                    Pullman. All trunks, boxes and the like went under the beds. Pegs were on the
                    wall for hanging clothes. There was a trundle bed for the children, while the
                    help slept in the outhouse, or the "lean-to." So there was
                    plenty of well ventilated sleeping and breathing room for all,—and
                    what more was wanted by our primitive Hoosier?
            
               
                  3 Volume I, p. 61.
            
            
            The landlady at this early Indiana cabin looked upon her guests with some little
                    reverence as "great folks," and it was generally regarded as
                    in harmony with democratic simplicity and true republicanism to bear some manner
                    of envy or enmity toward the cultivated "big bugs" from down
                    East. The common folks had come as "movers" from the
                            South,—
                  Kentucky, Tennessee,
                            Virginia
               , or the
                    Carolinas.
            "Our wooden country's mighty tough for some folks, I
                    allow," said the cabin hostess. "Right hard to git gals here,
                    marm. Folks has to be their own niggers." Such was the talk while
                    supper was preparing as the hostess bid her flaxen haired Nan "to sort
                    a turn them thare chickens."
            On another night the Halls stayed at the home of a travelling
                    preacher—Rev. William Parsons—one of those early itinerant
                    missionaries who received almost literally nothing for their pastoral services.
                    Mrs. Parsons incidentally remarked that for seven entire years she had never
                    seen together as much as ten dollars either in notes or silver. Here the Halls
                    could give no pay for their lodging. "Pass on the service to
                    another" was the spirit of the pioneer preacher. On the other hand it
                    was rare indeed that any one in the far West, however poor, would ask or take a
                    cent from any man known to be a preacher. A tavern keeper, a ferryman, a
                    blacksmith, a physician,—no matter by whom the service might be
                    rendered,—all would have scouted the thought of accepting pay from a
                    preacher,—which of course, was quite right since they thought the
                    preacher should not expect even the smallest salary. Once a clerical friend of
                    Hall's travelel nearly a thousand miles in woods and prairies and
                    brought back in his pocket the identical money he had started out
                    with,—viz. fifty cents. What he thought would be
                    enough had proved too much.
            Preachers were sometimes paid a little cash but not much, never enough to make
                    them purse-proud. But the preacher got his living. He entered some land, raised
                    a little produce and then by barter he got his sugar, tea, coffee, and paper,
                    and if he wished to see and own a few silver dollars he must sell a cow or a
                    calf or a horse.
            On the fourth day's journey from the 
                        Ohio
                     the Halls came to 
                        Bloomington
                    , a village set in a clearing, the clearing being about a mile long
                    and a half-mile wide, that had been hewed and hacked out of the woods, fresh,
                    rough, and green. This village in the forest he calls the capital of the New
                    Purchase,—then a town about four years old. Into this village of
                    Woodville. as the young classicist  called 
                        Bloomington
                    , the Halls came fresh from the East, and found themselves the
                    objects of strange curiosity. Mr. Hall was clean shaven and that placed him in a
                    particular class. The village was already divided into two classes, the superior and the inferior. The former shaved
                    once a week, the latter once in two weeks, or thereabouts.
            Mrs. Hall was stranger still for she wore no cap, a head covering that was worn
                    in 
                        Bloomington
                     by all wives, old and young. The caps in vogue were made of dark,
                    coarse, knotted twine, like a cabbage net, and were worn, as the wives
                    themselves admitted, "to save slickin' up -and to hide
                    dirt."
            This little primitive village of 500 people was already supplied with ten religious sects. The sects were active and disputatious.
                    With so many sects every householder could have a meeting of his own, at his own
                    home. Mr. Hall thought the community was altogether too religious, or rather too
                    superstitious. Their meetings were held chiefly to glorify themselves and to
                    revile others. One neighbor, when he went to pray in private, did so, not by
                    entering his closet and shutting the door, but by opening his doors and windows
                    and praying so awfully loud that he could be distinctly heard half a furlong
                    away. Some steeple saints climbed upon the court house steeple to pray, and Mr.
                    Hall thought it a pity that they came to earth again, for many of them so fell
                    from grace that they died without sign of repentance.
            The speech of the people was noticed. They used nor for than, and mispronounced big words in an amusing way.
                    "Yes, sir, Mr. Speaker," said a legislator,
                    "I'd a powerful sight sooner go into retiracy among the red
                    wild Abo'rreji'nes of our wooden country nor consent to that
                    bill."
            Into the new country, Hall came early enough to find the original race of
                    "squatters." In a settlement are found those who have located.
                    They have a habitation and a home, with liberty under some recognition of law.
                    But a "squatter" did not locate. He was a roving wanderer. To
                    him a settlement was odious. As time brought on a legal invasion of their
                    domain, the squatters, indignant and disgusted,
                    "absquatulated,"—i.e. they went and squatted in
                    another place, like roving forerunners of the frontier. They had contempt for
                    the uses and trammels of civilization. A settlement usually took its name from
                    the first settler, or from the man who owned the largest number of acres; or
                    from the person who established a ferry, or a smithy, a mill, a tannery, or,
                    above all, a store. Our early local 
                    geography is full of evidence of this. Occasionally some supposedly wiser
                    progenitor would bestow some flowery or' euphonious name upon a place,
                    and all historic and personal significance and connection would be destroyed.
            There were not many people in the new land, but the forests were thickly
                    inhabited,—deer, wolves, blue foxes, gray foxes, black foxes,
                    squirrels of like shades, ground hogs, wild-turkeys, wild ducks, wild cats,
                    opossums, snakes, with rattles and without rattles, of all colors and
                    sizes—and the domestic hogs, so wild and fierce that when hog-killing
                    time arrived the) ’ had to be hunted and shot like other independent
                    beasts. These porkers were not fed at the corn crib or the swill tub, they were
                    mast fed,—that is they foraged for themselves and found their own
                    provender, under the primeval trees of oak, hickory, walnut and beech. The nuts
                    afforded both good fattening and good flavor. In this wild country the yokes
                    were on the horses to prevent their jumping not out of
                    enclosures but into them. The fences were to protect your own
                    from the common wilderness.
            The rifle was one of the indispensable implements of the new civilization. It
                    procured for the people in certain seasons the only meat they had to eat. It
                    brought down the wild turkey or the wild duck. It defended the home from wild
                    animals; it saved the corn from squirrels, the hen roost from foxes, opossums,
                    owls and other "varmints." With it they killed their beeves
                    and hogs and cut off the heads of their fowls. The wood-man carried his rifle
                    everywhere,—to town, to the tannery, the store, to the
                    neighbor's house. A good rifleman could cut off the head of a bird at
                    50 yards, split a bullet upon an axe's edge, hit a ten-penny nail on
                    the head or plant bullet after bullet into the same auger hole.
            The New Purchase contained a rifle-maker unexcelled for 200 miles in the country
                    round. Hall pays a remarkable tribute to this gunsmith, his friend Austin
                    Seward, whom he called Vulcanus All-heart,—"by birth a
                    Virginian, by trade a blackhmith, by nature a gentleman, and by grace a
                    christian; if more need be said he was a genius." "Not one in
                    a million could make an axe as Allheart made it; and hence in a wooden country
                    where life, civilization, and Christianity itself, are so dependent on the axe,
                    my blacksmith was truly a jewel of a man." An axe of Seward's,
                    even where silver was hoarded as a miser's gold, brought in real cash
                    one dollar above any patent flashy affair from 
                        New England
                    . No other man in the Union could temper steel as Allheart tempered
                    it; and workmen from Birmingham and Sheffield who sometimes wandered to us from
                    the  world beyond the seas, were amazed to
                    find a man in the Purchase that knew and practiced their own secrets."
                    His skill was equally great at rifle making and Hall was ready to stake a Seward
                    rifle against any he had ever seen or known.
            The religious meetings were the great events of the community life. They were the
                    one approved diversion from the routine of life for people of all classes. They
                    were the best opportunity for social concourse. Everybody came, men, women and
                    children, in rain or shine, in all weathers and seasons,—on
                    horse-back carrying single, double, double and a half, or treble. They drove
                    through miry clay and swam their horses over swollen streams. The meeting-goers
                    were inspired by a variety of motives. Some came for news, some to see their
                    neighbors, some to electioneer, some to advertise "strays,"
                    some to scoff, though they may have remained to pray. After the meeting had been
                    called to order some settler might arise to announce an advertisement for a
                    stray animal as follows: "Neighbor Bushwhack, livin' down the
                    lower end of Sugar Holler, would like to heer if anybody in this here settlement
                    has heern or seed a stray critter of hissin, as his hoss-beast, a 3-year old
                    black geldin ’, come next spring, with a switch tail, but his ear a
                    kind a eat off by his other colt, slipt his bridle on Hickiry Ridge last big
                    meetin ’, and he aint heern or seen nothin ’ of him
                    sense."
            The big meeting was a great sparking time for the boys. It was held in the
                    beautiful autumn, after the hard work was over, and the young men went free and
                    gay expecting to find "a most powerful heap of gals."
                    Sunbonnets and calico frocks were there in abundance. A group of young people
                    would steal away to the spring, where they would contrive accidentally to have a
                    meeting of their own, when the notes of their voices would mingle strangely with
                    the notes of psalmody and prayer.
            Politics had its early phases and phenomena in Indiana. All offices were
                    elective, within the direct gift of the people, from governor down to the fence
                    viewer's clerk's first assistant. And for rabble-rousing
                    purposes there were those who gravely contended that trustees of the college,
                    presidents, professors and teachers should be elected directly by the people. So
                    the people were constantly electing somebody, and candidates were scouring the
                    country with hats, saddle bags and pockets crammed with certificates, defending,
                    accusing, defaming, and clearing up, making licentious speeches, treating to
                    corn whiskey, violating the Sabbath, and abusing the administration and the
                    administration's wife.
            
            Everybody expected to be a candidate for something ’ some time; so
                    that everybody and everybody's friends were always electioneering till
                    the state of intrigues, slanders, and fierce hostility were a weariness to the
                    flesh to any gentleman or woman. Boys voted fraudulently, standing either over the number 21 pasted in a shoe, or betzveen the number 21 in the hat and the number 22 in the shoe. They
                    would sometimes deliberately swear, when challenged as to age, that they were
                        over 21 or between 21 and 22.
            Stump-speaking was a passion,—and veritable stumps were used for
                    platforms, though often good stump speeches were made from a table, a chair, a
                    whisky barrel or the tail end of an ox-cart. But when the ox-cart was used the
                    speaker had to watch that some of his opponents did not pull out the forward
                    pin; for in that case in an unexpected moment and at the climax of his oratory
                    the speaker might be hurled suddenly in the dirt. Or the driver too long
                    detained might whip up with a shout and a crack and the ox team would start off
                    loaded with politics, to the amusement of the people and the discomfiture of the
                    candidate. There were political "jokers" in those days outside
                    of legislative bills.
            As to the rabble-rouser, his groveling humanity and his fine promises just before
                    the election were unsurpassed. One manly candidate who refused to make absurd
                    and wicked promises, after his defeat said he would run again and this time he
                    would promise to use his utmost efforts to force the legislature to abolish the
                    fever and ague and to pass a bill to find a gold mine on every poor
                    man's quarter section. The candidate's handshaking was an art,
                    which went on with friend and foe. His agents treated at the doggery. He dealt
                    out whiskey and gingerbread to the voters as they marched past him with fife and
                    drum to the polls. The voting was in the open, and the man who would treat the
                    most lavishly and entertain the most amusingly would be the more likely to win
                    the favor of the voters. The world is better that it used to be, but in nothing
                    quite so much as in its politics.
            The log-rolling was a common event and it has been often described to us. Again
                    everybody came, this time not for spiritual but for bodily
                    service,—men, women, boys, girls, horses, oxen, and dogs. The dogs
                    were as busy as the men barking and running and hunting but catching nothing the
                    whole blessed day, except three dozen snakes, four skunks, two opossums, and a
                    score or two of field rats and mice and ground squirrels. The men were dressed
                    in tow trousers, cow-hide boots, unbleached hemp-linen shirt, without coat  or vest, and with shirt sleeves rolled
                    above the elbow,—in which latter aspect of human attire we find
                    history repeating itself in modern college society.
            In those virtuous and happy days of old the mail came regularly once a month,
                    till a public spirited legislator exerted himself in behalf of his constituents
                    and then it came irregularly once in two weeks. The nearest post office to Mr.
                    Hall while he lived at Gos-port was at 
                        Spencer
                    , nine miles away. The mail came in a dirty, scrawny, flapping
                    little pair of saddle bags. Sometimes the mail would fail altogether, and this
                    came about from the action of a clerk in the 
                        Bloomington
                     office, who noticing that there were no letters for the 
                        Spencer
                     office retained the papers for private use to be forwarded by next
                    mail. Sometimes the mail failed because of high waters. Think of going through
                    nine long miles of such roads for the mail and finding none, and then driving
                    back all that wet, long, tangled way to wait four more weary weeks for the
                    letter that did not come.
            It was not an easy matter to get hold of any of the circulating medium. A man was
                    generally unwilling to part with cash, and he might remain six hours in a store
                    with only six cents to spend. In Hall's time rarely indeed could two
                    cash dollars be seen circulating together; and having then no banks and being
                    suspicious of all foreign paper the people carried on their operations
                    exclusively by trade. For goods store keepers received their pay in produce
                    which was converted into cash at 
                  Louisville, Cincinnati
               , or more frequently at 
                        New Orleans
                    . The house of Young & Hall paid for all things in leather.
                    When a wood chopper must have shoes and had no money and no produce with which
                    to pay he offered to pay in chopping. The firm not needing that article but
                    being indebted to several neighbors who did, sent the man and his axe as the
                    circulating medium then in demand among its own creditors to chop out the bills
                    against the store.
            The men of the New Purchase attributed the scarcity of cash to the non-existence
                    of banks, while in the old Purchase that scarcity was attributed to their
                    existence. The good hard money of ultimate payment was well taken care of by
                    those who controlled the currency. People dealt in silver fippenny bits. A
                    fippenny bit was 61/4 c Sam, a woodman of the settlement, brought in some tow
                    linen for which he hoped to buy four panes of glass 8x10, 1/2 lb. of store
                    coffee, 1/8 lb. of store tea, 1/4 lb. of gun powder, I lb. of lead, a string of
                    button moles and a needle. The trade was found against  him by 9 1/4c. Sam had two fippenny bits (12 1/2
                    cents) in his pocket, but he was not willing to part with them. The store keeper
                    offered to take one of the bits, 6 1/4cents, and call it even, but Sam regarded
                    this as downright Jewish usury and the storekeeper was obliged to book the
                    91/4cents to be paid in "sang." Was Sam's conduct
                    surprising? Hardly, when you remember that for $1.25 could then be
                    bought a whole acre of good bottom land, trees, spicebush, pawpaws, and all. So
                    to pay out 61/4 cents was to take off quite a good slice from an acre. No wonder
                    Sam was indignant at the storekeeper's attempt to inveigle him out of
                    his "fippenny bit."
            The trustees of the new Seminary announced their desire to find men qualified to
                    fill the chairs of the professorships. A large and sudden crop of candidates
                    sprang up, even in and around Woodville, who, if not qualified, expected to
                    "qualify" by the time school began. One schoolmaster offered
                    to find his own chair, which, of course, would be quite a saving to the State.
                    One candidate entered the plea of poverty, that something ought to be done for a
                    poor fellow who had been "born in a cane-brake and rocked in a sugar
                    trough." Another thought he could learn one of the dead languages in three weeks. The election, of course, excited the
                    hostility of the dozen or more disappointed candidates toward the school, the
                    professor-elect, the trustees, and toward "every puss-proud aristocrat,
                    big bug, and darned blasted Yankee, in the New Purchase."
            Governor Whitcomb is described as the most sagacious man the author had ever seen
                    in making political somersaults. He turned so adroitly and so noiselessly as to
                    cheat the eyes of the beholders, and make it doubtful whether he was on his head
                    or on his feet. He never turned with the tide, but watching the ebb and flow, he
                    always managed to turn a little before the tide. Thus he was always a
                    people-loving leader of the right party, i.e., the successful one.
            Whitcomb was a Methodist, but was fond of the violin, and was a good player on
                    that worthy instrument. But the Methodist preacher in the Purchase could not
                    stand for the violin, nor the fantastic toe likely to be engendered thereby.
                    Preachers were in the habit in those days of praying for
                    people by name in public and at people by description.
                    Whitcomb told with some relish this petition of a preacher which was directed
                        at him. "Oh, Lord, oh, I beseech thee; have marsy
                    on all them there poor sinners what plays on that instrument, whose sounds is
                    like the dying screech of that there animal out of whose intrils its strings is
                    made."
            Time will not permit me to go into the descriptions of the various  aspects of frontier life that Hall witnessed and
                    described,—the barbecues, the rifle matches, the stump speeches, the
                    college exhibitions, the court trials, the charivari, the pigeon shooting. There
                    is amusement or interest in each of these. But I cannot forego the camp-meeting.
                    When this event came on Woodville was in a ferment. All the crack preachers
                    within a circuit of 300 miles were to be present. Hall had not been favorable to
                    these manifestations of religious zeal. The shouting Christian was not to his
                    mind the highest type, and that kind, in his opinion, stood in no need of
                    encouragement. He had constantly refused to attend these meetings and thus had
                    become a suspected character. He was recognized as an honest sort of man, but it
                    was thought he ought to go to camp-meeting and "git religion."
                    So to one of the big meetings he finally went.
            For the camp-meeting, which might come twice a year, whole families broke up
                    housekeeping for two weeks; domestic altars were deserted; regular churches were
                    shut up; the children were taken away from school; the people went to the woods
                    to live in tents, with peril to health and, very often, with loss of life to
                    feeble persons. Hall was unable to see why folks should do these things under a
                    belief that the Christian God is a God of the woods and not of the towns, of the
                    tents and not of the churches, of the same people in a large and disorderly
                    crowd, and not in one hundred separate and orderly congregations. Now at last he
                    had decided to go and see for himself.
            The camp was eight miles from 
                        Bloomington
                    ,—the scene of many a spiritual drama, and there many a
                    harvest of glory had been reaped in battling with the devil and his legions. It
                    seemed wonderful to our doubting professor why his Satanic Majesty never became
                    shy of the place where he was said always to have the worst of the fight. At
                    this particular meeting Satan was challenged to come out and do his prettiest.
                    It was allowed by certain discerning prophets that some powerful fights would be
                    seen and that the old fellow would "agin git the worst of it."
            The author admitted the poetry and romance of a western
                    camp-meeting,—the wilderness, the gloom, the grandeur of the forests,
                    the gleaming sunlight by day, the clear blue sky, like a dome over the
                    tents,—that dome at night radiant with golden stars; the tents formed
                    like booths at the Feast of Tabernacles,—a community having all
                    things in common, dead to the world and just ready to enter heaven, in a fervor
                    of zeal. The zealots would march around  the
                    camp like Joshua and his army around the walls of Jericho, shouting and singing.
                    Heat, flame, and smoke were the constituent elements of a good meeting.
                    Novelties and new excitements had continually to be introduced, or the meeting
                    would grow stale.
            But though he was no decided friend to camp meetings, morally, spiritually and
                    theologically considered, yet Hall cordially admitted that at a western
                    camp-meeting, as at a barbecue, were to be found the very heart and soul of
                    hospitality and kindness. There these virtues were wide open and fully poured
                    forth.
            He describes in full the scenes, the camp fixtures, the program of exercises, and
                    the sermons he heard, the shouting, the roaring, the groaning, the hissing, the
                    clapping and stamping, the laughing and crying and whining; how the backsliders
                    and the thoughtless sinners that came for fun were instantly knocked over where
                    they lay before the altar, some seized with violent jerkings and writhings of
                    the body, and some uttering the most piercing and dismaying shrieks and groans.
                    At this particular meeting there was a sudden rush toward the professor where he
                    stood mounted on a stump. The rush was occasioned by a desire to see a battle
                    royal with the devil. A stout fellow was lying on the straw, groaning and
                    praying, yet kicking and pummeling away as if scuffling with a sturdy
                    antagonist. Near him were several men and women at prayer, and one or more
                    whispering into his ear; while on the stump above stood a parson superintending
                    the contest, so as to insure victory to the right party. The prostrate man, like
                    a spirited tom-cat, seemed to fight best on his back. He was the celebrated
                    bully of the Purchase,—"Rowdy Bill." When it became
                    known through the camp that Bill was engaged in a hand-to-hand tussle with the
                    devil the rush had occurred, because this was a fight worth seeing. The
                    spectators were hugging one another, standing on tip toes, with necks stretched
                    out, to get a view of the field, or the ring,—to use the proper
                    sporting language. The superintendent shouted: "Let him alone,
                    brothers! let him alone, sisters!—keep on
                    praying,—it's a hard fight;—the devil's
                    got a tight grip yet. He don't want to lose poor Bill, but
                    he'll let go soon;—Bill's getting the better of him
                    fast. Pray away!"
            Now, "Rowdy Bill" was a famous gouger, and so expert was he in
                    his anti-optical vocation that in a few moments he usually bored out his
                    antagonist's eyes, or made him cry "enough." If Bill
                    could only get the devil by the head he would soon cause him to let go entirely
                    his metaphorical grip. So, at least, thought his devoted  wife. Bill was a man after his wife's own
                    heart, and she often said that "with fair play she sentimentally
                    allowed her Bill could lick ary a man in the varsal world, and his weight in
                    wild-cats to boot." Hence, hearing that Bill was actually fighting with
                    the devil, she came pressing in to see that he had fair play, and hearing that
                    Bill was actually down on his back and apparently undermost and that the fiend
                    had a tight grip on the poor fellow, she screamed out her common exhortation to
                    Bill, which when heeded heretofore had always brought victory, "Gouge him, Billy! gouge him. Billy! gouge him!!" Bill apparently acted upon the
                    suggestion, rose to his knees, smothered and routed his foe, and announced that
                    he had "got religion"; and then his friends and spiritual
                    guides united in prayers and shouts of thanksgiving.
            This scene lingered in the author's memory for many a night and day, and
                    that of the 200 converts as they paraded and marched around the camp-meeting
                    grounds under the appellation of "virgins following the lamb,"
                    or as "trophies snatched from Satan." And he concluded that
                    "a camp-meeting, all things considered, was the very best contrivance
                    and means for making the largest number of converts in the shortest possible
                    time; and also for "enlarging most speedily the bounds of a Church
                    Visible and Militant."
            We may smile at these extravagant ways, exceptional no doubt, even for those
                    primitive days. But as we recall the oddities and crudities of these early
                    settlers in the woods we should not in any way forget nor disparage their
                    virtues. Here was a hardy, hard-headed, and in the main, a worthy people. In
                    many ways they were untutored, but they were accomplishing a great work, as with
                    courage, endurance, and sacrifice they were subduing the forest, building homes,
                    establishing the State, and advancing civilization. We who now live here under
                    immeasurably better surroundings and in the enjoyment of opportunities which the
                    most sanguine vision of their imaginations could never portray will forever be
                    their debtors. They were our progenitors, and among them were some of the best
                    and noblest of the race. There were among them some who came, as Mr. Meredith
                    Nicholson says, to bring the light into the darkness. The Owens were at Harmony;
                    the Morrisons and Mays and Hobbses at 
                        Salem
                    ; Hall and the Wylies were at 
                        Bloomington
                    ; the Merrills and Nicholsons and Julians and many others were in
                    other parts of the State; and the immortal work of Caleb Mills at 
                        Wabash
                     is known to all intelligent sons of Indiana. No one knew better
                    than Mills how the benighted and the indifferent stood ready  to reject the light and to permit their lives and
                    that of their community to go down into oblivion. But let us remember that among
                    the rank and file of struggling Hoosiers in the new commonwealth there were
                    others who hailed the prophecy and the promise of a better day; who gave of
                    their toil and meagre substance to truth, to religion, to learning and
                    education, and who were ready to dedicate to the upbuilding and higher
                    intelligence of their State, their lives, their fortunes and their sacred
                    honors. 
                        Wabash
                     College and this History Society are but the products of a spirit
                    like that; and it will be your privilege, as I am sure it will be your pleasure,
                    as far as in you lies, to discover, to reveal, and to lead your several
                    communities to appreciate the worthy story of our past and its significant
                    bearing upon the possibilities of the future.
            I have but touched the fringes of a great subject,—the story of the
                    life of early Indiana. Some of it is in modern print and is easily accessible.
                    Much of it in sources that are fugitive and undiscovered. Much of it, alas! has
                    been destroyed and has gone from the earth forever, interred, as it were, with
                    the bones of those who have lived and wrought and passed off the stage of
                    action, but who, not knowing their own history, unconscious of the significance
                    of their own being, have left no record for the edification or enlightenment of
                    posterity. For your purposes and mine as students of history their names, their
                    residence and their memories are with annihilation. Let us see to it that we do
                    not make our abode with such as these. Let us appreciate our past and our
                    passing lives, and let us recognize our obligation to our children and our
                    children's children to recover, preserve, and hand down to posterity
                    what we can of our own history. What we learn and see and hear of interest and
                    importance in our day will be of ten times greater interest to men and women a
                    century hence. And if we remember how immeasurably better off we are than they
                    were in the days of the fathers when men were laying the foundations of our
                    State, we shall not forget the debt of gratitude to those who labored not for
                    themselves alone, but that we, their children and their grandchildren, might
                    enter into the fruits of their labor. One of the uses of history is to remind us
                    not only of our unpaid obligation to the past, but of our never ending
                    obligation to the future. Young men, the future is yours; but it is yours not
                    only to enjoy, but to magnify and redeem.
         
         
         
            THE CRIMINAL CODE OF THE NORTHWEST TERRITORY
            By the Late Judge DAVID D. BANTA
                    Sometime Dean of the Indiana University Law School
            [Judge Banta was born in 
                        Johnson county
                    , May 23, 1833. He was educated at 
                        Franklin
                     College and Indiana University, graduating from the latter
                    institution with the class of 1855. Two years later he graduated from the Law
                    School of Indiana University. In 1888 
                        Hanover
                     College conferred upon him the honorary degree of LL.D. He was in
                    public service continuously from 1857 to his death in 1896, during the last six
                    years of his life being Dean of the School of Law of Indiana University. He was
                    the author of a History of 
                        Johnson County
                    , History of the Presbyterian Church of 
                        Franklin
                    , Making a Neighborhood, and many shorter papers and essays. This
                    paper was read before the Fortnightly Club of 
                        Bloomington
                     on May 2, 1892.]
            WHEN the immortal Diedrich Knickerbocker sat down to write his veracious History
                    of 
                        New York
                    , he began his story with an account of the creation of the world.
                    With less time at my command in which to write my history and moved by a less
                    lofty ambition than that which animated the great Dutch author, I begin at an
                    era, which, if of less consequence to the world in general than the creation, is
                    scarcely less so to that part of the world which is comprised within the
                    boundaries of the old Northwest territory; and which it must be confessed by all
                    has the merit of being closer to us in point of time than does the creation. I
                    refer to the Ordinance of 1787.
            This old document, about which so many fine things have been spoken by our
                    historians and orators, can not be passed over, at least without mention by one
                    in search of the genesis of the Indiana criminal code, for it was in the very
                    next year after the passage of the Ordinance that the government of the
                    Northwest territory was set up at 
                        Marietta
                    , at the mouth of the Muskingum, and a code of laws was enacted in
                    pursuance of its provisions for the government of the people northwest of the 
                        Ohio
                    . That first code, together with such additions as were from time to
                    time made to it by the different legislative bodies, constituted the code and of
                    course the criminal code in force in the Indiana territory when in 1816 that
                    territory became the State of Indiana. It can thus be seen how, in a sense,  the Ordinance became the In-the-Beginning
                    of the Indiana criminal code.
            The English, the American colonial, and the early State penal codes of the last
                    half of the last century and the first of the present, present most remarkable
                    contrasts with the penal codes with which we, of today, are the best acquainted,
                    particularly as respects the nature and character of the punishments inflicted
                    for wrong-doing. There are other contrasts which, if one had the time, it might
                    be interesting to point out, but not one so noticeable as the one suggested and
                    which with such certainty indicates progress in the humanities.
            In Professor Howard's Introduction to the Local Constitutional History
                    of the 
                        United States
                    , 1 he characterizes as "A Barbarous Criminal
                    Code" the Marietta one of 1788; and it must be conceded that to a
                    humane statesman of that era who could have seen with prophetic eye the criminal
                    code of our day it would indeed have seemed all the Professor characterized
                    it—a barbarous criminal code. But the men who framed that code and
                    their contemporaries were very much in the habit of looking backward instead of
                    forward, and so, looking backward and considering the penal codes of the past
                    ages as well as of their own ages, they doubtless found cause for
                    self-congratulation in the fact that the odds of humanity were in favor of their
                    code.
            At the risk of consuming time that may possibly be coveted before the end is
                    reached, let me briefly call attention to the state of the criminal law, both in 
                        England
                     and the colonies immediately preceding, at and succeeding the time
                    when the Marietta code was promulgated. By so doing I trust we may not only be
                    the better able to judge of the merits or demerits of that code but of the
                    successive penal legislation of the Northwest up to and including the first
                    distinctively penal code adopted by the State of Indiana.
            There is always a disposition to judge of the men of the past and their deeds by
                    the standards of the present. The history books are full of the instances of
                    such judgments. Necessarily our outlook must be the most circumscribed. I call
                    to the stand Robert Mc-Kenzie, the author of a History of the Nineteenth Century
                    and I ask him to make a brief statement of the condition of the criminal law in 
                        England
                     and the manner of their enforcement during the latter 
                  1 George E. Howard, An Introduction to the Local Constitutional
                            History of the 
                                United States
                            . Johns Hopkins University Studies, 
                                Baltimore
                            , 1889.
               
                     half of the Eighteenth centuiy and, say, up
                    to the year 1816, when Indiana was admitted. His answer you will find beginning
                    on page 79 of his history:
            The criminal laws were savage and they were administered in a spirit
                    appropriately relentless. The feeling of the time was so entirely in favor of
                    severity that Edmund Burke said he could obtain the assent of the House of
                    Commons to any bill imposing the punishment of death. Every class strove to have
                    the offenses which injured itself subjected to the same penalty. Our law
                    recognized 223 capital offenses. Nor were these mainly the legacy of the Dark
                    Ages, for 156 of them have no remoter age than the reigns of the Georges. It
                    seems at first that there cannot be 223 actions worthy of the mildest censure.
                    But our stern fathers found that many worthy of death. If a man injured
                    Westminster bridge he was hanged. If he appeared disguised on a public road he
                    was hanged. If he cut down young trees; if he stole property valued at five
                    shillings; if he shot at rabbits; if he stole anything at all from a wheatfield;
                    if he wrote a threatening letter to extort money; if he returned prematurely
                    from transportation,—for any of these offences he was immediately
                    hanged. The criminal class has become in recent times an embarrassment. Our
                    fathers experienced no such difficulty. They solved the problem by putting to
                    death with little discrimination every rogue, great or small, on whom they could
                    lay their hands. In 1816 there were at one time 58 persons under sentence of
                    death. One of these was a child ten years of age. The hanging of little groups
                    of men was of constant occurrence. Somewhat earlier it had been even worse.
                    "A fortnight ago," wrote Charles Wesley in 1776, "I
                    preached a condemned sermon to about 20 criminals; (and every one of them I had
                    good ground to believe died penitent.) Twenty more must die next week."
                    Men who were not old when the battle of Waterloo was fought were familiar with
                    the nameless atrocities which it had been customary to inflict upon traitors.
                    Within their recollection, men who resisted the government were cut to pieces by
                    the common executioner and their dissevered heads were exposed on Temple Bar to
                    the derision or pity of passersby. It seemed indeed as if society were reluctant
                    to abandon these horrid practices. So late as 1820 when Thistlewood and his
                    companions were executed for a poor, blundering conspiracy which they were
                    supposed to have formed, the executioner first hanged and then beheaded the
                    unfortunate men.
            So much for this witness. He gives us a varied summing up of the condition of
                    affairs in 
                        England
                    . Unfortunately no witness is at hand with a like summing up as to
                    our own country. But the story is a less bloody one. The colonial and the new
                    State criminal codes were humane by the side of the mother country code, but
                    barbarous by the side of the codes of the present. They provided punishment for
                    acts which would not be tolerated now-a-days, and nearly or quite all of the
                    graver offences were punishable with death. Mc-Masters tells us that the General
                    Court of 
                        Massachusetts
                     prescribed  the death penalty
                    for ten crimes in the very year of the adoption of the Federal Constitution.2 In
                    both 
                        Connecticut
                     and Rhode Island death followed the commission of a like number of
                    acts. In 
                        Delaware
                     twenty offences were punishable capitally, and in 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     twenty-four were punishable either by death or maiming.
            In 1777 Mr. Jefferson, then a member of the 
                        Virginia
                     House of Delegates, was appointed one of a committee of three to
                    revise the laws and adapt them to the new condition of things.3 It fell to his
                    lot to revise the criminal laws and the law of descents. Mr. Jefferson was a
                    gentle, humane man and we may well suppose that a criminal code of his devising
                    would fail, if fail it must, in the House of Delegates rather for its humanity
                    than its inhumanity. And such was the fact. Mr. Jefferson's code was
                    ahead of the times. "The general idea of the century," he
                    himself says, "had not advanced to the point put forth by Beccaria4 on
                    crimes and punishments, of the unrightfulness and inefficiency of the punishment
                    by death." He reported a plan of a penal code which provided the
                    penalty of death for two offenses only, treason and murder. I believe a vote was
                    not had on the report till after the [Revolutionary] war when it was defeated by
                    a majority of one. It was still in advance of the humanity of the times.
            Now let us note some of the provisions of that too human code. Whosoever
                    committeth death by poison shall suffer death by poison. The duelist who killed
                    his antagonist was to be gibbeted—hung upon the gallows-tree till the
                    birds picked his bones. Every murderer should forfeit half his goods to the next
                    of kin of the person killed. Every man guilty of rape, polygamy, or sodomy was
                    to be castrated and every woman have a hole cut through the cartilage of her
                    nose a half inch in diameter. Every person who of malice aforethought should
                    maim or disfigure another, cut out his tongue, slit or cut off his nose, lip or
                    ear, or brand him, should be maimed or disfigured in like sort; and if he could
                    not be maimed or disfigured in like sort for want of the same part then in some
                    other part of equal value to be selected by the jury. Five years of hard labor
                    was to be the part of counterfeiters and committers of arson. For grand larceny
                    the pillory for half an hour and two years of hard labor on 
                  2 John Bach McMaster, A History of the People of the 
                                United States
                            , I, i>. too seq.
                  3 Jefferson, Works, Washington Edition, I, p. 45. The text of the
                            proposed code is given on page 147.
                  4 Cesare Bonesano, Marquis of Beccaria, was a Milanese publicist
                            (1735-1793). His fame rests on his great work published in 1764 entitled
                            Treatise on Crimes and Punishments. He argued against capital
                            punishment, and for greater humanity toward criminals.
               
                     the public works. For petit larceny the
                    pillory for half an hour and one year hard labor. For all attempts to delude the
                    people by the practice of pretended arts, such as witchcraft and the like,
                    ducking and whipping.
            This code shows in its very inequalities that it must have been the result of an
                    attempt on the part of its author at practical legislation. He hoped that, while
                    conceding something to the barbarism of the age, yet to compass something for
                    the cause of humanity. The cruel punishments provided for came from the past;
                    the more humane were the expressions of the new and better day whose dawn was
                    apparent only to the few.
            While the number of acts that one could commit in any of the colonies or States
                    during the latter part of the last century that brought the penalty of death was
                    far below the number in 
                        England
                     at the same time, yet the severity, not to say ferocity, of all
                    other punishments, save death, that were inflicted was little if any less than
                    in 
                        England
                    . The colonists had brought with them all the instruments of
                    punishments then known and in use—the stocks, the ducking stool, the
                    branding iron, the cropping knife, the whip, the jail, the rope, and even the
                    wheel, the stake and the cage. In 
                        Massachusetts
                     "breakers of the peace, profaners of the Sabbath, unlawful
                    gamesters, drunkards and profane swearers or cursers" were put in the
                    stocks, caged, imprisoned, or whipped.
            In 
                        Connecticut
                     from 1760 to the Revolution the burglar or robber was branded on
                    the forehead with the letter "B," had an ear nailed to a post
                    and then cut off, was whipped on the naked body with fifteen stripes. For a
                    second offense he was again branded, had the other ear cut off and got
                    twenty-five stripes, and for the third offense was killed outright.
            In 
                        Maryland
                     he who unlawfully altered, a will forfeited all his estate and was
                    put in the pillory for two hours with both ears nailed there, which were cut off
                    and left sticking to the timbers when his time was up.
            In 
                  Delaware, New York
               , and probably
                    elsewhere negroes were burned at the stake and sometimes with green wood so as
                    to prolong the agony; they were broken on the wheel, and hung up in iron cages
                    and left to starve to death. All these things occurred in 
                        New York
                    , certainly before the Revolution, and probably after, and the like
                    occurred probably in three-fourths of the other colonies but has never got into
                    history. The 
                        Delaware
                     case I discovered myself in running through some very old church
                    records at the town  of Jersey in that
                    State, and I have no doubt one could find many such instances in the
                    time-stained court, parish, church, and other records of the original thirteen.
                    These are the things the local historians as a rule do not care to talk about.
            Professor George E. Howard, after writing 416 pages of his Local Constitutional
                    History of the 
                        United States
                    , in which he considers the town-meeting, the selectmen, the
                    tithing, the township, the county, and divers other matters pertaining to
                            
                  New England, Pennsylvania, Maryland
               , and the other colonies gives us without any
                    heading, three pages devoted to "various forms of corporal punishment,
                    some of them rather peculiar, [which] were devoted to petty offenses";
                    and if his reader happens to know no better, he will rise from the perusal of
                    these pages with the impression that the peculiar corporal punishments inflicted
                    in 
                        New England
                     were of rare occurrence, had a humorous flavor, and were confined
                    to the very early years of colonial history. ‘ But when the author
                    reaches the Northwest territory he becomes quite serious and heads a chapter
                    "A Barbarous Criminal Code"—and tells the truth.
            All this, however, is by the way. The code was a barbarous one, judged by the
                    standard of today, but let us see whence it came and what became of it. The act
                    of a Congress made up exclusively of members from the thirteen original States
                    provided that the governor and territorial judges of the Northwest territory
                    should, during the First Stage of territorial government, select from the codes
                    of the original thirteen States such laws as they deemed applicable to the new
                    government northwest of the 
                        Ohio
                    . No authority was given for framing new laws, and while it is a
                    fact that occasioned much congressional criticism at the time that the
                    commission ventured to re-cast some of the laws in order to make them conform to
                    the requirements of a new society, nevertheless the laws so re-cast were taken
                    from the statute books of some of the original thirteen.
            We therefore find the new law-proclaiming power handicapped at the very outset.
                    Legally no laws for the punishment of crime could be enforced but such as had
                    already been enacted by some State for the government of its own citizens; and
                    so whatever of merit or demerit that attached to any particular law adopted, the
                    legislators of the Northwest territory were entitled to neither the praise nor
                    the blame. If their code appears to the people of this more favored age as a
                    "barbarous one" it had in a sense been forced upon them by the
                    older communities.
            In eleven years the population of the Northwest territory had in-  creased to such a degree as to warrant the
                    introduction of the Second Stage of territorial government which had been
                    provided for by Congress and thereafter legislative assemblies composed of
                    elected members passed such laws, whether belonging to the civil or criminal
                    sides, as they deemed would best promote the interests of the people. The
                    congressional injunction to select laws that were found in the codes of some one
                    of the original thirteen States was not binding on these legislative assemblies.
            Up to the time of the ending of the First Stage of the territorial government,
                    the governor and judges were in the habit of meeting from time to time to select
                    laws, an act they could rightfully perform, and to pass new laws, an act they
                    could not rightly perform. Congress disapproved in 1792 of the territorial laws
                    passed by the governor and judges, but it would seem as if the laws continued to
                    be enforced among the people thereafter till repealed by territorial legislative
                    act. The judges who had passed the laws stood ready to enforce them and from
                    their decision there was no appeal, and Congress could only disapprove, not
                    repeal.5
            In 1800 the first division of the Northwest territory was made and the Indiana
                    territory with jurisdiction over all the region now comprised within the States
                    of Indiana, 
                  Michigan, Illinois
                and 
                        Wisconsin
                     was created. 
                        Michigan
                     territory was cut off in 1805 and 
                        Illinois
                     in 1809, leaving the Indiana with [about] the same as the present
                    boundaries of the State.
            The unrepealed laws of the governor and judges and of the legislatures of the
                    various territorial governments, descended as it were in a sort of lineal
                    succession, till in 1816, when on the organization of the State government of
                    Indiana the whole descended and became a part by inheritance, figuratively
                    speaking, of the new State. It was in this way that Indiana as a State got her
                    first criminal code.
            It is thus made apparent, I trust, that in order to form a just judgment as to
                    the presence or absence of wisdom or humanity in the Indiana criminal code in
                    the beginning or at any subsequent time, something of the letter and the spirit
                    of the various territorial codes that constituted it must necessarily be known.
            Let us consider, then, some-of the territorial criminal laws for a moment. The
                    want of time utterly forbids any attempt at classification 
                  
                     5 Most of these laws can be found in the Maxwell
                            Code, published by W. Maxwell, 
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1796. The laws of this code were adopted by the Governor
                            and Judges at 
                                Cincinnati
                             May 29 to August 5, 1795. A facsimile reprint of this Code
                            was published by Robert Clarke & Co., 
                                Cincinnati
                            , about twenty years ago.
               
                     or any other than the most meager
                    reference. The Marietta code of 1788 provided penalties for nine acts and
                    pronounced homilies against two. Treason, murder, and house-burning in case the
                    death of any one was caused thereby, were punished by death. Burglary and
                    robbery were punished by thirty-nine stripes and by fine and imprisonment not to
                    exceed forty years. For perjury the offender was either to be fined not
                    exceeding $60 or whipped not exceeding thirty-nine lashes,
                    disfranchised and put in the pillory. Larceny was punished by fine or whipping
                    and if the accused were fined and unable to pay, it was lawful for the sheriff
                    to sell him at public outcry for a period not exceeding seven years, to some one
                    who would pay the fine. Forgery was punishable by fine, disfranchisement and
                    standing in the pillory. For the first offense of drunkenness a fine of five
                    dimes was imposed, for the second, and every successive, one dollar and in case
                    of refusal to pay the fine, the stocks for an hour.
            Against the vices of profanity and Sabbath-breaking the people were admonished
                    that the acts were not made criminal by the imposition of any penalties. This
                    was a unique sort of legislation that, so far as I know, was without precedent
                    and has never become a precedent.
            This code was a patchwork affair, as it needs must have been to have come from so
                    many different sources as we may suppose it to have come. As to the number and
                    character of acts that were to be punishable by the death penalty, it was
                    doubtless the most humane code in the civilized world at the time. But as to
                    punishment for offenses its promulgators did not deem worthy of death it merited
                    from our standpoint at least the epithet of barbarous. All sorts of punishment
                    were recognized except maiming. There was no cropping of ears, no striking off
                    of hands or other members of the body, and not even any branding in that code.
                    There is a sort of inequality of punishment apparent which is not surprising,
                    considering the patchwork character of the laws. Forgery, for instance, was
                    punishable by fine, disfranchisement and the pillory, while the burglar and
                    robber might get thirty-nine lashes, a fine and forty years ’
                    imprisonment.
            This code is more remarkable, if possible, for what it does not contain than for
                    what it does. There is not an act of turbulence or injury to the person of
                    another than is forbidden either by way of admonition or fine, save those of
                    murder and robbery. The citizens of the new territory might fight, engage in
                    riots, slit noses,  perpetrate mayhem,
                    gamble, commit rape, but they must not get drunk, and they ought not to swear
                    nor fail to keep the Sabbath.
            Subsequent legislation added acts that were made criminal and of these two were
                    deemed worthy of death—bigamy in 1803, and the second offense for
                    horse stealing in 1805.
            The legislation concerning horse stealing would make not an uninteresting chapter
                    in the history of criminal jurisprudence in our State. By the law of 1805 the
                    offender, for the first offense, was required to make full reparation to the
                    owner—a punishment that has come down from the old Saxon laws; and he
                    was to receive not less than fifty nor more than 200 lashes on his bare back,
                    well laid on. If not a vigorous fellow he might collapse under the punishment,
                    which if he did, it was deemed his fault or misfortune. If he survived and was
                    proven guilty of a second offense of the same kind he was deemed worthy of death
                    and was executed outright.
            We can easily see what excuse could be given for the savage nature of the
                    punishment for horse stealing and likewise can readily see how the legislators
                    of the time could find excuse for providing extraordinary punishments for the
                    act of altering a brand or mark of any cow, hog, or other beast running in the
                    range. In 1806 for this offense branding in the left hand with a letter
                    "T" was provided as a part of the punishment. But for no other
                    act was this punishment ever inflicted in Indiana and not for long for altering
                    marks.
            The usual punishments were whipping, putting in the stocks, in the pillory,
                    fines, imprisonment and disfranchisement. But disfranchisement meant more in
                    general in the early days than it does now. It was a sort of uncitizenizing of a
                    man—something somewhat analogous, I suspect, to the ancient practice
                    of the church in unfrocking an unworthy priest. At any rate, for many crimes it
                    was made a part of the punishment that the criminal should not only be rendered
                    incapable of voting and holding any office of profit or trust, but be forever
                    incapacitated for serving as a juror and testifying as a witness. He was thus
                    placed under the ban of the law and under the constitution no executive clemency
                    could ever afford him any relief. Once under the ban, always under the ban.
                    These were the kinds of punishments known to the laws that entered into and
                    became a part of the Indiana criminal code—a code that came into and
                    formed the State code from the territorial code by operation of general rules of
                    law. They were savage in comparison with the laws of a later date. But it is
                    worthy of  remark that no ears were ever
                    cropped in Indiana under either territorial or State laws; no hand was ever
                    stricken off; no disfiguring of the person was ever tolerated, save in the one
                    case of branding for the altering of a mark, which was the law for a short time
                    only during the territorial period. No noses were ever slit or had holes bored
                    in them, nor was a man ever castrated for the commission of a crime.
            The State was admitted in 1816. The Legislature of 1817 made no other changes in
                    the criminal laws that had descended from the territorial code, save as may have
                    resulted by implication from the passage of new laws. A dozen or more new acts
                    were passed, among which were acts to punish forgery, man-stealing, giving false
                    certificates of manumission, dueling, incest, Sabbath-breaking and profane
                    swearing. The two last ’ statutes have come on down to the present
                    with no great change of phraseology.
            In all these last-named laws the drift is seen toward substituting fines for
                    punishments, though the whipping post keeps its place. Thus the forger or
                    defacer of a public record in addition to any number of stripes between ten and
                    one hundred might be fined not exceeding $2,000. The forger of a deed
                    might be fined $3,000 and receive the stripes. For man-stealing the
                    penalty was a fine not less than $500 and not over $1,000
                    and disfranchisement. Dueling was always repressed with vigor in both territory
                    and State. A territorial law required of every citizen when taking an oath of
                    office to take a kind of test oath. He had to swear that he had never engaged in
                    nor participated in a duel as a party, second, or friend; and to this was now
                    added a penalty for going out of the State to fight, in a fine not less than
                    $100 nor more than $2,000.
            The second Legislature took up the subject of criminal legislation in earnest and
                    passed an act to reduce all the acts and parts of acts then understood to be in
                    force relating to crimes into one general act or code.6 This new act provided
                    punishments for fifty-five acts that were declared to be misdemeanors or
                    felonies. Of these four were declared to be worthy of death, viz.: treason,
                    murder, rape, and carnal knowledge of a female child under ten years of age. The
                    acts relating to bigamy and horse-stealing and making them punishable with death
                    had, before the State was admitted, been repealed and so had the statute
                    providing for branding with the letter "T" for altering marks.
            
               
                  6 Laws of Indiana, 1818, Ch. V.
            
            
            The punishments recognized in this new code were hanging for the four capital
                    crimes, flogging, fine, imprisonment, and disfranchisement. Thirteen of the more
                    heinous were liable to punishment by stripes; sixteen could be imprisoned and
                    all but ten or twelve could be fined. The want of jails accounts for the
                    comparatively few crimes that were punishable by imprisonment, it has been said,
                    and I think with truth; but the heavy fining, considering the scarcity of money
                    and general poverty of the people, is astounding. For the crime of arson the
                    penalty was stripes not exceeding ioo and a fine not exceeding
                    $20,000.
            With one more reference let this half-finished paper conclude. One by one the old
                    barbarous modes of punishment had been eliminated until the Indiana code
                    contained but one that was considered at the time, and is still by many, as the
                    last of the list—the whipping post. In every one of the thirty-one
                    counties organized in the State up to 1820, the whipping post was planted and
                    the laceration of the backs of both men and women was not only a possible
                    occurrence, but in some we know was an actual fact. Great throngs, it was said,
                    would assemble to witness the infliction of this punishment. As late as 1821 the
                    sheriff of 
                        Switzerland county
                     took Abraham Levi, who had been convicted of horse-stealing, and
                    sentenced to forty lashes, to the stray pen in 
                        Vevay
                     and, tying his wretched victim to a corner post and stripping his
                    back to his waist, gave him the forty lashes with the new rawhide. "No
                    mercy was shown by the official," says the local historian.
                    "The prisoner's back was so lacerated that it was with
                    difficulty room could be found for the last ten or fifteen stripes without
                    striking in one of the stripes before inflicted."
            If we compare these early Indiana laws with the laws of a later period we wonder
                    at the savagery displayed in them; but if we compare them with the laws of older
                    States we have cause for greater wonder that the savagery should so soon
                    disappear. In 
                        England
                     the stocks were not to disappear till 1826 and the pillory not till
                    1830 and as late as 1874 flogging was still a recognized mode of punishment in
                    that country. It was not till the year 1832 that there was any considerable
                    amelioration of the English capital criminal code. Until that year
                    horse-stealing, cattle-stealing, sheep-stealing, stealing from a dwelling house,
                    and forgery were still capital offenses.
            But the spirit of humanity was abroad in the earth. The voices  of Sir Samuel Romilly and Sir James Mackintosh7
                    were sounding from over the sea and the Indiana statesmen of 1820 heard. Early
                    in that year by one act they made the whipping post an impossibility in their
                    State thence on to the present. They established a State prison at 
                        Jeffersonville
                     and since the day the governor by his proclamation announced it was
                    ready for the reception of prisoners there has never been a flogging by sentence
                    of law in Indiana.
            It seems proper in closing this paper that something should be said as to the
                    causes that led to this advance step taken so early in the history of Indiana.
                    Such a discussion is necessarily more or less speculation and it will be enough,
                    and especially in view of the time already consumed, for me merely to hint at
                    what to my mind seem some of the most potent causes.
            1. I have already hinted at the voices that were heard sounding from over the
                    sea. That eminent lawyer, Sir Samuel Romilly, had already been on fire in the
                    cause of this reform and on his death Sir James Mackintosh had proved himself
                    his worthy successor in the same humane cause. Through the efforts of these men
                    and others of their disciples, few in numbers at the first, but increasing as
                    the years went, the English-speaking people the world over began to hear. It was
                    the voice of humanity calling and a response went up from the men of the
                    wilderness.
            2. In the second place let me suggest that the religious and political sentiment
                    predominating in the West tended to a larger humanity. That great religious
                    awakening which came in from 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                     with the beginning of this century and which soon spread all over
                    the West and Southwest, was not without its influence. One of the most
                    interesting features of that movement was the intense, not to say ferocious,
                    warfare between the sects it engendered. But the battles fought were v/ith
                    tongue and pen and we of today are just beginning to see resultant good that the
                    soldiers of the period doubtless never dreamed of. However else those
                    hard-hitting ecclesiastical warriors may have disagreed, they were at one in
                    asserting the doctrine of individual responsibility. Coordinated with their
                    teachings was the political dogma of the equality of all men before the law.
                    These were truths the preaching of which by preachers and politicians
                    "the common people heard 
                  
                     7 Sir Samuel Romilly (1757-1818) was an English
                            barrister and statesman. His fame as a reformer rests on his treatise
                            Observations on the Criminal Law of 
                        England. London
                     , 1810. Sir. James Mackintosh
                            (1765-1832) was an English philosopher, barrister and historian. He was
                            professor of law and politics at Haileybury for many years. He wrote
                            voluminously on political and legal topics.
               
                     gladly" and their evident effect
                    was a widening of the area of human sympathies and a preparation of these people
                    for the dawn that was to come.
            3. In the third and last place, and to my mind the most important one of all,
                    Indiana was favored in her early lawyers. In the pioneer bar of the State the
                    men of learning and ability predominated. I need not stop to explain how this
                    happened to be so. I assert it, leaving the proof to some other occasion.
            These lawyers were not only dwellers on the hilltops who saw the rising sun while
                    the men of the valley were yet in the twilight, but their very calling as
                    criminal lawyers quickened their humanity. Every lash that cut into the
                    quivering flesh of a culprit was felt more keenly by his late lawyer than most
                    laymen can well imagine.
            Now these lawyers took the place in public affairs their culture and intellectual
                    strength warranted them in taking. They were the true moulders of our
                    State's laws, and to their influence more than to all others I think we
                    owe the abolition of the whipping post—the last of the old barbarous
                    punishments, at so early a period in the history of our State.
         
         
         
            SKETCHES OF EARLY INDIANA SENATORS—(IV) JOHN TIPTON
            By NINA KATHLEEK REID, A.M., Seattle
            THE Tipton family first appears in history in East 
                        Tennessee
                     during the Revolution. Jonathan Tipton was an officer under Sevier
                    at the battle of King's Mountain, and on later
                    campaigns against the Cherokees. An elder brother, John Tipton, was prominent in
                    the struggle to organize the abortive State of 
                        Franklin
                     in 1785. His attitude in this matter brought him into violent
                    opposition to John Sevier, who at the time opposed the new community separating
                    from 
                        North Carolina
                    . He was one of the deputies chosen to frame a constitution for the
                    new commonwealth, of which convention Joseph Tipton was also a member. They sat
                    with such men as Reverent Samuel Houston, James Montgomery, George Maxwell, and
                    John Blair. The people soon tired of this new government and decided to return
                    to the allegiance of 
                        North Carolina
                    . At an election for members to represent 
                        Washington county
                     in the 
                        North Carolina
                     Assembly, held at Sycamore Shoals on the Watauga
                    river, Col. John Tipton was elected senator. This brought on a
                    conflict with the new State of 
                        Franklin
                    . Its Governor, John Sevier, at once singled out Colonel Tipton as
                    the head of this rebellion. A bitter feud arose between these men. Tipton held
                    court for the State of 
                        North Carolina
                     at 
                        Buffalo
                    , ten miles from 
                        Jonesboro
                    , where the 
                        Franklin
                     Supreme Court sat. Tipton headed a party, raided the court of 
                        Franklin
                     at 
                        Jonesboro
                    , and carried off the records. Sevier retaliated by seizing the
                    court records in Tipton's county, Washington. These raids and counter
                    raids were repeated so often that all semblance of regular courts disappeared.
            By the year 1787 Tipton and Sevier had become implacable enemies. A compromise
                    engineered by Evan Shelby permitted citizens of the community to own allegiance
                    to either government. During this year, 1787, John Tipton was colonel and
                    justice of the peace of 
                        Washington county
                    . He was, with James Stuart and John Blair, elected representative
                    to the 
                        North Carolina
                     Assembly of that year, held at Tarborough. The conflict between
                    Tipton and Sevier was growing more bitter. August 27, 1787, Tipton raided the
                    courts of 
                        Franklin
                     at Mulberry Grove and a rumor was started that he  had captured Governor Sevier. It was said that
                    1,500 mountaineers were under arms in a few hours to rescue their governor.
            Early in 1788 a sheriff, acting under a fieri facias from the
                    State of 
                        North Carolina
                    , seized Governor Sevier's negroes and took them to
                    Tipton's house for safe keeping. Sevier, who was then in the mountains
                    fighting the Cherokee Indians, returned and laid siege to Tipton's
                    house on Sinking creek, a branch of Watauga, ten miles east of 
                        Jonesboro
                    . A kind of half-hearted battle followed in a snow storm in which no
                    one attempted to kill another. Sevier, however, was worsted and his two sons
                    fell into the hands of Tipton. A short time later Sevier himself was arrested
                    and sent to Morgan-ton, 
                  Burke county,
                            North Carolina
               , on a
                    charge of treason, but was rescued by his friends and returned to 
                        Jonesboro
                    . The Legislature of 
                        North Carolina
                    , to the disgust of Tipton, then a member, acquitted Sevier of the
                    charge of treason and he took his seat as a representative, the State of 
                        Franklin
                     having entirely collapsed by March, 1788.
            Nothing more appears of the Tiptons until the spring of 1790, when President
                    Washington called on Governor Blount, of the" Southwest Territory, to
                    furnish 200 troops to General St. Clair for his expedition against the Miami
                    Indians. Capt. Jacob Tipton commanded a company. He was killed November 4, 1791,
                    at St. Clair's defeat.
            In 1793 the Southwest Territory was advanced to the Second Stage. In the first
                    Assembly John Tipton represented 
                        Washington county
                    . John Sevier was nominated by this body and appointed by the
                    president as a councillor. Both Tipton and Sevier appeared as trustees of
                    Washington College, to be established at 
                        Salem
                    , in 
                        Washington county
                    . Again, in 1796, John Tipton was elected a delegate from his county
                    to the Constitutional Convention at 
                        Knoxville
                    , serving on the committee that drafted the constitution. On the 6th
                    day of the succeeding February he was chosen a senator from his county, while
                    Sevier became the first governor of the State.
            A new county, Carter, was established by the Legislature by dividing 
                        Washington
                    , and the first court was held at the home of Samuel Tipton. John
                    Tipton appeared at the same time as a trustee of the new town of 
                        Jonesboro
                    . A short time later Governor Sevier appointed John Tipton a
                    magistrate for 
                        Washington county
                    . In August, 1797, Sevier was reelected govefnor and Tipton a State
                    senator. Tipton was not a member of the next Assembly and we have no further
                    record of him. The ill-feeling between him 
                    and Sevier lasted till his death, no doubt, as he was the leading prosecutor of
                    Sevier in the Fraudulent Land-Warrants case. Jackson took sides with Tipton.
                    Samuel and John Tipton were both on the Legislative committee that investigated
                    this affair.
            General Jacob Tipton, son of Captain Jacob Tipton, killed at St. Clair's
                    defeat, moved west in 1821 and was one of the first settlers in
                            
                  Tipton county, Tennessee
               , a county named
                    for the victim of St. Clair's blunder.
            The exact relationship of John, Samuel, Jonathan. Jacob, and Joshua Tipton cannot
                    now be determined, but some, and perhaps all, were brothers. Their father is
                    said to have come from 
                        Maryland
                    . John seems to have been the oldest and most influential. He owned
                    a large estate on'Sinking creek near 
                        Jonesboro
                    , East 
                        Tennessee
                    , and associated on equal terms with President Jackson, Hugh L.
                    White, John Sevier, Isaac Shelby, James Robertson and Senator Blount. There is
                    no doubt as to the enmity between him and Sevier but there is no reason to
                    believe that Sevier ever did him any such injury as tradition has preserved.
            The story that Sevier encouraged the Indians to murder Joshua Tipton, the father
                    of the Senator Tipton, of Indiana, is unfounded, and cannot be believed by
                    anyone who appreciates the character of Sevier. On the other hand, Gilmore, in
                    his John Sevier, a Commonwealth Builder, misstates the facts
                    and without reason criticises John Tipton of 
                        Tennessee
                    .
            These details have been given at some length to show the surroundings of John
                    Tipton, who lived in this vicinity till he was of age. He perhaps had as good an
                    education as could be had in the community.
            For some cause or other many of the Tiptons left their old home around 
                        Jonesboro
                     about the close of the Eighteenth century and again sought the
                    border. One of them, Abraham Tipton, was a volunteer under George Rogers Clark.
                    Another settled in 
                        Ohio
                    , a third, as noted above, moved west to 
                  Tipton county, Tennessee
               .1
            
            In 1807 John Tipton, the Senator from Indiana, came north and settled in 
                        Harrison county
                    , Indiana. His father had been murdered in 
                        Tennessee
                     about 1793. There were two sisters, a half-brother and his mother
                    in the Tipton family when they located at Brinley's Ferry. He purchased
                    50 acres of land here and established a home, paying for it by making rails. As
                    required by law he joined the 
                  
                     1 These details of the Tipton family have been
                            gathered principally from Ramsay, Annals of 
                                    Tennessee
                                .
                  
               
                     militia, becoming a member of Captain Spier
                    Spencer's Yellow Jackets. It was as an ensign in this regiment that he
                    participated in the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign. He has left us an account of this in his journal, which
                    was published in a former volume of this MAGAZINE.2 He was promoted to the command of his company on the death
                    of his commander at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    . On his return he entered with all his energy into the defense of
                    the frontier, which at that time was along the course of Driftwood or the East
                    Branch of White river. He made his headquarters at 
                        Fort Vallonia
                    .
            The story of his campaigns against the Indians would fill a volume. June 30,
                    1812, he received a call from the farmers of White river at
                    Driftwood Ford for help against the Indians. He started in July with nine men;
                    five more followed in a few days. When he got there, Tipton found that the
                    Indians, hearing of his coming, had all left the settlement. His name was enough
                    to fill them with terror, as he was known as an unerring marksman. This
                    expedition occupied twenty days.
            The Battle of Tipton's Island, fought March 23, 1813, is famous in the
                    history of 
                        Jackson county
                    . In the fall of 1811 the Indians along the White
                    river had entered into a treaty with the 
                        United States
                    , ceding the territory south of an imaginary line beginning at the
                    banks of the Whitewater, where 
                        Brookville
                     is now located, and running in a southwestern direction toward the
                        Wabash river. After this treaty was made, many families
                    had moved into Southern Indiana and established their homes there.
            The Indians violated this treaty and began to raid farms, and to steal horses and
                    stock. The lives of the settlers were not safe. March 18, 1813, a party of
                    pioneers at 
                        Fort Vallonia
                     were attacked by hostile Indians while returning from a trip to the
                    forest. A man by the name of Sturgeon was killed and four were wounded.
            A call was issued to Tipton, who was then located at 
                        Fort Vallonia
                    . He started with 29 men the next morning; March 23 he overtook a
                    company of Delawares and Shawnees in the bottom land along the White
                        river. The Indians fled, crossed the river on a large drift and
                    reached the end of an island. Tipton's men began firing as soon as they
                    saw the Indians and the latter returned the fire. When the rangers reached the
                    island Tipton divided his forces, and surprised the enemy so by this movement
                    that they abandoned 
                  
                     2 Volume II, p. 170, reprinted from the 
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                 News of May 5, 1879. The manuscript is now in the
                            hands of Mr. John H. Holliday, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , formerly editor and proprietor of the News.
                  
               
                     the fight. One Indian was killed and
                    several wounded, while trying to swim to safety. The soldiers pursued the
                    savages into what is now 
                        Lawrence county
                    . None of Tipton's men were killed or wounded. From this
                    battle the island has ever since been called Tipton's Island.
            An incident of this battle shows what kind of a disciplinarian Tipton was. He had
                    commanded absolute silence from all his men, but one big fellow insisted on
                    talking. Tipton took away his gun, tied him to a tree and let him stay there
                    awhile, with bullets flying around him. He was soon glad enough to promise to be
                    still.
            The following letter to Acting-Governor Gibson, written April 24, 1813, and
                    giving a resume of his actions up to this date, during his command at 
                        Fort Vallonia
                    , will give some idea of this part of Tipton's life:
            "Since I have had command of the militia stationed on the frontier of 
                        Harrison
                     and 
                        Clark counties
                    , there has been much mischief done in those counties, of which I
                    have made a correct report to Col. Robert M. Evans, believing it his duty to
                    make report to you. On the 18th of March one man was killed and three wounded
                    near this place (
                        Vallonia
                    ). At that time I was not here. On my return I took twenty-nine men
                    and went up Driftwood twenty-five miles. I met a party of Indians on an island
                    in the river—a smart skirmish took place; and in twenty minutes I
                    defeated them; killed one dead on the ground and saw some sink in the river; and
                    I believe all that made their escape by swimming the river, if any done so, lost
                    their guns. I lost no men killed or wounded. On the 16th instant two men were
                    killed and one wounded eight miles southwest of this place, and five horses
                    stolen. I immediately took thirty-one men and followed them three days,
                    notwithstanding we had five large creeks to raft, and many to wade waist deep,
                    and every day heavy rain. The third day I directed my spies to march slow (as my
                    horses were much fatigued) and not try to overtake them until night. But
                    contrary to my orders they came up with one who had stopped to fix his pack and
                    fired on him. From his motions they think him mortally wounded, as he fell, but
                    raised and run away. They all left their horses and other plunder; and the
                    ground being hilly we could not catch them, as they were on high hills and we
                    were in a deep hollow except the spies. Had it not been for my orders being
                    disobeyed, I would certainly have killed them all at their camp the ensuing
                    night. On their way out they passed the Saline Salt creek, and there took an old
                    trail leading direct to the 
                        Delaware
                     towns; and  it is my opinion
                    that while the Government is supporting one part of that tribe the other is
                    murdering our citizens.
            "It is much to be desired that those rascals, of whatever tribe they be,
                    harboring about those towns should be routed, which could be done with one
                    hundred men in seven days. If there is not effective measures taken to guard
                    this place the whole of 
                        Clark
                     and 
                        Harrison counties
                     will break. It is rumored that when the militia come out the
                    rangers will be dismissed. If so our case is a dangerous one as it is hard for
                    mounted men to range through the swamps and backwater of Driftwood and
                        Muscatituck rivers as they have been, most of the
                    season, more than a mile wide, by reason of low marshy bottoms that overflow,
                    and many times three or four miles wide. They (the Indians) come in and secrete
                    themselves on some high ground surrounded with water, and by help of bark canoes
                    come in and do mischief, and until I came out could not be found. Since I came
                    out they have made two attempts to take off the horses. The first time on the
                    12th instant, I took all their horses but one; the last I took all and followed
                    them with footmen. The last time we lived three days on a little venison,
                    without bread or salt; and I believe if there are to be rangers there should be
                    spies of young and hardy footmen who could lay and scout through the swamps and
                    thickets like the Indians do, and then we'll be secure— not
                    else. I have been constantly out for the last eight days, on foot, wading and
                    rafting the creeks; have seen much signs of Indians, such as camps where they
                    have lain, killed hogs and cattle to live on, and made many canoes to approach
                    our settlements; and I am conscious if you had not ordered out the additional
                    companies and made those excellent arrangements of the 9th of February, the
                    whole frontier would have been murdered ere now. The citizens are now living
                    between hope and despair waiting to know their doom."3
            
            During the first half of the year 1813 the Indians were troublesome in northern
                    Indiana. Tipton accompanied several expeditions against them. By the middle of
                    the summer all signs of trouble had disappeared. At the declaration of peace at
                    the close of the War of 1812, Tipton, for his services, was promoted by
                    President Monroe to the rank of brigadier-general. He then returned to his home
                    in 
                        Harrison county
                     and began his career in public life.
            Tipton had been appointed justice of the peace of 
                        Harrison county
                    
                    
                  
                     3 Daniel McDonald, History of
                                Freemasonry in Indiana.
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1898. Published by the Grand Lodge.
               
                     June 20, 1811.4 At the
                    first election under the State constitution, August, 1816, he was elected
                    sheriff. He was afterwards reelected and served until August, 1819, when he was
                    elected representative to the State Legislature from 
                        Harrison county
                    .
            January 11, 1820, the Legislature appoined George Hunt, John Conner, John
                    Gilliland, Stephen Ludlow, Joseph Bartholomew, John Tipton, Jesse B. Durham,
                    Frederick Rapp, William Prince and Thomas Emerson commissioners to locate the
                    new capital for the State. May 17, 1820, Tipton, with Governor Jennings, started
                    from Corydon on this mission.
            On this trip to select the capital Tipton kept a journal of the trip, and it
                    shows a remarkable improvement in spelling and writing over the journal he kept
                    on his campaign to 
                        Tippecanoe
                    .5
            
            At the August election, 1821, Tipton was reelected to the State Legislature from
                    his county. In the following session he was appointed commissioner by the
                    Legislature of Indiana to meet the commissioner from 
                        Illinois
                     and establish the boundary line between the two States. The work
                    was done the following summer, and although Tipton insisted that there was an
                    error, and that the site of 
                        Chicago
                     should be in Indiana, the report was ratified by the Legislature at
                    the session of 1822-23.
            In March, 1823, Tipton was appointed by President Monroe general agent for the
                    Pottawatomie and Miami Indians in northern Indiana. He moved to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , where the agencv was located, living then in a block house. He was
                    the moving spirit in the agitation for the formation of a new county, of which 
                        Fort Wayne
                     was to be the county seat.6
            
            A bill was passed and approved December 17, 1823, to form a new county out of 
                        Randolph
                     and 
                        Delaware counties
                    . At the suggestion of Tipton it was provided that the new county
                    should be called Allen, in honor of Col. John Allen, of 
                        Kentucky
                    , who had been killed January 22, 1813, at the battle of the River
                    Raisin.
            May 27, 1824, Tipton was appointed county agent and filed his bond for
                    $5,000 with Alexander Ewing and Samuel Hanna as sureties. He had as a
                    part of his duties the sale of the lands deeded to the county in consideration
                    of the location of the county seat at that place.
            
               
                  4
                        Executive Journal, p. 174.
               
                  5 Tipton's Journal was printed in the Indiana Magazine of History in the March and June issues
                        of 1905. The substance of this is given by John H. Benton in an article in
                        the Brownstown Banner October 15, 1913.
               
                  6
                        History of the Upper Matimee, II, p. 374.
            
            
            In 1826, while he was agent at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , Tipton, together with General Lewis Cass and Governor James B.
                    Ray, was appointed by President Adams to negotiate a treaty with the Miamis and
                    Pottawat-omies for their lands. Tipton was chosen because of his success in
                    dealing with, and his wide personal acquaintance with the red men.
            A treaty was made with the Pottawatomies, October 16, 1826, by which they ceded a
                    strip of land 100 feet wide for a road from Lake Michigan
                    to the 
                        Wabash
                    , and one section of land contiguous to the road for each mile of
                    the same. This land was to be sold and the money used for the construction of
                    the 
                        Michigan
                     Road, a great project in those days of difficult travel. In 1827
                    Congress passed an act authorizing the road, and January 24, 1828, the State
                    Legislature provided for its survey. By February, 1832, the road had been opened
                    from the Ohio river through 
                        Indianapolis
                     to 
                        Logansport
                    , and in 1834 the work was completed, and the road opened.
            A treaty was made by these same commissioners, October 23, 1826, with the Miamis,
                    by which they ceded to the 
                        United States
                     all claims of land north and west of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Miami rivers and reaffirmed the cession
                    that had been made by the treaty at St. Mary's October 6, 1818. By
                    these two treaties these two tribes ceded all their lands in the northwest part
                    of the State, excepting individual reservations. Thus the wars that had been a
                    perpetual menace to the settlers were brought to an end.
            On March 28, 1828, Tipton moved the Indian agency from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to the Wabash river, opposite the mouth of
                        Eel river, thinking this a more central point. Here
                    Alexander Chamberlain, familiarly known as "Aleck," had built
                    a cabin and later a double two-story hewed-log building, which he used as a
                    tavern. Tipton established his headquarters at the tavern, which he bought April
                    3, 1829, together with the tract of land it was on, for $725. He then
                    put up other buildings for the agency. One of these was the little one-story
                    frame house, with a porch in front, standing a few feet to the west. After
                    Tipton had moved with his agency to this place houses were built rapidly and
                    there was soon quite a settlement. When the question of naming the village
                    arose, Tipton, with a reverence of an educated man for the classics, preferred a
                    Latin compound meaning "Mouth of the Eel," but was overruled.
            Early in September, 1828, the citizens of this little town of Logans-port began
                    to consider the subject of education. Five hundred dollars was raised for the
                    purpose of starting a seminary, of which amount Tipton paid
                    $£50. September 27, 1828, a meeting of citizens  was held to appoint a committee on building
                    and organization. The "Eel River
                    Seminary" was incorporated January 1, 1829, with Tipton as its first
                        president.7
            
            Tipton had a great deal to do with the growth and prosperity of 
                        Logansport
                    . He built the first flouring mill erected in the vicinity in 1828.
                    It was called Forest Mill and was at first a saw mill. He was interested in
                    constructing school houses and raising money to pay the teachers. He was
                    interested in the original plat of the town, being at the same time proprietor
                    of four additions which he laid out August 3, 1833; June 8,
                    1835; October 5, 1835; and October 27, 1835. Moreover, he was at the head of
                    almost every movement for the improvement and progress of 
                        Cass county
                    . It may be truly said that 
                        Logansport
                     owes more to him than to any other man.
            Some interesting letters that show John Tipton's character were printed
                    in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Indiana Journal in December, 1829, while he was Indian agent.
                    The people of 
                        Cass county
                     had published an address in the Indiana Journal
                    of October 29, 1829, on the subject of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal and the 
                        Michigan
                     Road. John Ewing, State senator from 
                        Knox county
                    , in reply, published a letter in the same paper, November 21, 1829,
                    to the citizens of Indiana. In this letter he claimed that the people of 
                        Cass county
                     were interested in the progress of the Wabash Canal and the 
                        Michigan
                     Road, because they would benefit them most. He advocated selling
                    the lands along the canal for credit instead of for cash, as the latter policy
                    would prevent a great many people from buying, and thus hinder the building of
                    the canal.
            This was too much for Tipton. He immediately wrote a letter, which was printed in
                    the 
                        Logansport
                    
                    Pottawatomie and Miami Times, and on December 8, 1829, in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Indiana Journal "by request." It was
                    addressed to John Ewing and signed "Keep Dark John." In this
                    letter he accused Ewing of wanting to sell the canal lands on credit so as to
                    get the people in debt, and thus secure a job as loan commissioner. This credit
                    system, however, he said, was not Ewing's scheme originally but that of
                    a man of high standing who was using him as a "cat's
                    paw." "In all societies, John," Tipton went on to
                    say, "old maids are allowed their cats, parrots and. canary birds; old
                    bachelors their whims, hobbies and gouty spleens, and you must in charity be
                    allowed yours. But, sir, the road and canal are great State objects, nor shall
                    you ride them, John, unless you ride them fair." He accused Ewing of
                    having a temper that 
                  
                     7 Helm, History of 
                                    Cass County
                                , Indiana.
                  
               
                     made him imagine all men his enemies, while
                    the men he so considered, though annoyed by Ewing's conduct, regarded
                    him as such a nonentity that they could look on him only with pity and contempt.
                    He also charged Ewing with having deceived the Indians in the treaty with the
                    Miamis and Pottawatomies in 1826. He closed with a story about a speculator, a
                    man high in office, who rode an old lame horse to an Indian treaty. This horse
                    had all the ailments a horse could have. Finding that the horse was about to
                    die, he got an Indian interpreter to influence another Indian, in return for
                    some whiskey, to ask the commissioners for the poor lame horse. The
                    commissioners were made to believe that unless the Indian got this horse
                    negotiations would fail. They, therefore, ordered it to be valued very high and
                    paid for out of the public money. The letter ended thus: "Was this
                    transaction fair? Was the seller a citizen of Cass or 
                        Logansport
                    ? No, no, would you believe it, John, he was a citizen of ould
                    Knoax."
            In the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal of December 16, 1829, Ewing attacked Tipton. He had
                    applied to the Journal for the name of the person who
                    "requested" the publication of "Keep Dark
                    John" and found that it was Tipton himself. He spoke of the
                    "vulgar ribaldry and wilful falsehood" of the letter and
                    refuted it. In the same issue of the Journal he published a
                    letter of his to Tipton, who was then in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in which he asked the latter to prove the charges he had made.
                    Tipton would not commit himself, but asked Ewing to come to his room. This Ewing
                    refused to do. Tipton left 
                        Indianapolis
                     the next day without answering Ewing's last letter. Ewing
                    published in this same issue of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal letters from James B. Ray, Governor of Indiana, who
                    had been one of the commissioners at the treaty in question, James Gregory and
                    William Connor. All these men disclaimed any knowledge of unfair dealings on
                    Ewing's part at the treaty in 1826. Ewing went on to accuse Tipton of
                    unfairness as an Indian agent, by means of which he had grown wealthy.
            Tipton, on the day he left town, had heard that Ewing was to attack him in the
                        Journal. He wrote a letter to the Journal, in which he said that if "John" had only called
                    on him, or if he could consider him a gentleman worthy of notice, he would show
                    the world that the half had not been told. However, Ewing was not worthy of
                    notice, "Nor will I take any further notice On Paper of his writings or
                    sayings. His pen or his tongue, where he is known, is no slander: suffice it
                    therefore to say that it is John Ewing."
            
            When James Noble, 
                        United States
                     Senator from Indiana, died, February 26, 1831, Governor Ray
                    appointed Robert Hanna to fill the vacancy. Soon after this a movement was
                    started on foot to have the Legislature elect Tipton to the 
                        United States
                     Senate. He received many letters on the subject. In a letter to Dr.
                    James H. Stewart, of Delphi, July 23, 1831, he expressed his preference for the
                    situation of Indian agent, which he then held. He said he was not seeking office
                    and would regard it as a sacrifice of peace and property. His talent, he did not
                    think, was of the kind that should be in the 
                        United States
                     Senate.8
            
            Tipton finally gave way to the entreaties of his friends and allowed his name to
                    go before the Legislature as a candidate. The election took place December 8 and
                    9, 1831. The first six ballots were taken December 8 and the last ballot the
                    next day. On the first ballot, Samuel Judah, received 36 votes, Jesse L. Holman,
                    23 Thomas L. Blake 23, James Rariden 16, Jonathan Jennings 3, John Tipton 1,
                    John Test 1, not voting 2. On the second ballot he received 4 votes, on the
                    third 10, and increased until the seventh, when he was elected by a vote of 55.
                    Judah received 3, Holman 36, Blake 5, Rariden 1, and Milton Stapp 3, on the last
                    ballot.
            Tipton took his seat in the 
                        United States
                     Senate January 3, 1832. In this session he had a great deal to say
                    on the subject of Indian affairs, and pioneer that he was, showed his knowledge
                    of Indian character.
            May 28, 1832, when the bill for appropriations for the Indian department for 1832
                    was up in the Senate, Tipton moved to amend the bill by striking out the proviso
                    that no part of the appropriation should be used to reward Indians for settling
                    disputes among themselves. He thought it was better to bribe the Indians by
                    means of a few blankets if bloodshed could thus be avoided. Most of the Senators
                    were opposed to this giving of bribes, as they called it. Tipton's
                    amendment was lost by a vote of 7 to 34.9
            
            May 31, of the same year, Tipton discussed the Indian war then raging in Indiana.
                    This war, he said, was due to the encroachment of the white men on the lands of
                    the Indians, whose complaints had not been listened to by the Government.10
            
            June 9, 1832, Tipton introduced a bill in the Senate authorizing the President to
                    raise five companies of rangers for the protection 
                  
                     8 Dr. James H. Stewart, Recollections
                                of 
                                    Carroll County
                                
                     , p. 134.
                  
                     9
                            Congressional Debates, VIII, p. 978.
                  
                     10
                            Congressional Debates, VIII, p. 991.
               
                     of the frontiers. He showed how necessary
                    such a band of men was for the safety of the frontiers. Ordinary soldiers, he
                    argued, would not do for this service. They needed men who were acquainted with
                    the habits of the Indians, who had been raised on the frontier with a rifle in
                    their hands. He urged the immediate passage of the bill, as the lives of the
                    people on the frontier were in danger at this time. At least 500 rangers were
                    necessary to keep peace. "An Indian has no love for the American
                    people. Missions, teachers, preachers sent to them have not civilized them nor
                    will the long prayers made nor the hypocritical hands held up in eastern cities
                    in behalf of the poor Indians have much effect in warding off scalping-knives
                    from our heads."11 Tipton prophesied that if help
                    was not immediately sent to the frontier the pioneers would take matters in
                    their own hands and exterminate the Indians from the Tippecanoe
                    river to the 
                        Mississippi
                     before another year. Then the East would say that the western
                    people "had murdered the poor Indians." Tipton's bill
                    was passed in a slightly modified form.12
            
            At the next session of Congress Tipton was placed on the Committees on Military
                    Affairs and Public Lands.13
            
            He was re-elected January 5, 1833, on
                    tne nineteenth ballot, receiving 54 votes, Dewey 9,
                    Patterson 11, McCarty 16. scattering 14. On the last ballot 30 National
                    Republican votes were given to Tipton.14
            
            December 16, 1833, Tipton was placed on the Committees on Military Affairs,
                    Indian Affairs and Claims. During all the remaining time that he was in the
                    Senate he served on these committees. In 1837, after Hendricks had left the
                    Senate, Tipton took his place as chairman of the Committee on Roads and
                        Canals.15
            
            Tipton, like all Western men, did all he could to help on the building of roads
                    and canals. In 1833 he introduced a series of resolutions regarding the building
                    of harbors on Lake Michigan.16 The next
                    year he introduced a resolution regarding the improvement of the navigation of
                    the 
                        Wabash
                    . At the time he presented the resolution he spoke of a bill with
                    this same object which had been vetoed at the last session by Jackson. This
                    attitude of the President 
                  
                     11
                            Congressional Debates, VIII, p. 1075.
                  
                     12
                            Congressional Debates, VIII, p. 1076.
                  
                     13
                            Congressional Debates, IX, p. 4.
                  
                     14
                            Miles' Register, XLIII, p. 301.
                  
                     15
                            Congressional Debates, X, p. 43.
                  
                     16
                            Congressional Debates, X, p. 50.
               
                     he thought was due to the misunderstanding
                    of the importance of the matter. He closed by saying that no man need expect the
                    votes of more than one-fourth of the men in the Mississippi
                    valley at the next Presidential election if he was opposed to the
                    improvement of rivers.17
            
            In a speech, December 24, on the same subject, Tipton mentioned the attacks that
                    had been made on him by the Congressional Globe with the
                    purpose, he avowed, of arraying the Jackson party in Indiana against him. The
                    Washington (D. C.) Globe insinuated that Tipton's
                    interest in improving the 
                        Wabash
                     was due to the fact that he owned a great deal of land along that
                    river. Tipton closed as follows: "If any persons have charges to prefer
                    against me, let them be brought forward. I stand ready to meet them at all times
                    and in all places. I have no favors to ask; but if it is expected to deter me
                    from my duty by such attacks, they are mistaken. I shall vote according to my
                    own sense of right, without being driven from my course by threats or
                        insinuations."18
            
            Tipton, like Hendricks, tried to get appropriations every year for the National
                    Road. February 26, 1836, in the debate on the National Road bill, 
                        Clay
                     opposed the bill. Tipton was sorry to see his old friend separating
                    from him on a vote over internal improvements. Clay had remarked that it was
                    strange that Hendricks and Tipton asked for appropriations for the road when the
                    whole system of internal improvements had been abandoned by the Democratic
                    administrations. To this Tipton replied, in characteristic fashion, that in his
                    support of any administration he would go with them no farther than they
                    followed the course he thought was honorable and to the interest of his country.
                    "I look to the wishes of a majority of my constituents and to my
                    judgment of what is right and wrong for the rule of my conduct here, and not to
                    the will of a chief magistrate, or of any other individual, public or private. I
                    care not who is president of the 
                        United States
                    . If he administers the Government agreeably to the constitution and
                    the laws he has a right tc expect my support and on no other terms."19
            
            On the public land questions Tipton agreed with Hendricks in favoring
                    "graduation." January 23, 1837, he moved an amendment to 
                        Clay
                    's Land Bill, providing for "graduation."
                    This amendment was lost January 24.20
            
            
               
                  17
                        Congressional Debates, XI, p. 13.
               
                  18
                        Congressional Debates, XI, p. 70.
               
                  19
                        Congressional Debates, XII, p. 619.
               
                  20
                        Congressional Debates, XIII, p. 530.
            
            
            Tipton's views on the subject of the tariff can be seen in his speech
                    February 25, 1837, on the bill to reduce the duties on certain imported
                    articles. At this time he said he thought American statesmen in their
                    legislation ought to think not merely of revenue, but also of protection for
                    American industry. Clay that could be used to make the finest china was to be
                    found in Indiana; the blankets given to Indians at treaties could be made also
                    in his own State if the Government would protect the wool. He was in favor of
                    abolishing the duties on articles used by the poor, but he wanted the rich to
                    pay the duty on luxuries.21
            
            Tipton believed that the army of the 
                        United States
                     was not large enough. February 5, 1836, he introduced a resolution
                    looking toward an increase in the army. His idea was that the surest way to
                    prevent war was to prepare for it. There were not enough troops at this time to
                    occupy all the military posts. A bill was reported and passed the Senate June
                    21, but did not become a law.22
            
            At the first session of the Fifteenth Congress, which was held September 4 to
                    October 16, 1837, Van Buren's plan of a
                    Sub-Treasury system was taken up. In the debate on this question, September 23,
                    Tipton expressed the belief that the cause of the panic of that year was
                    Jackson's unfortunate tampering with the currency and the public
                        deposits.23 He disapproved of the Sub-Treasury bill, as
                    it would give too much power to the executive. The regulation of the currency
                    and the deposits of public money he thought should be under laws passed by
                    Congress and not left to the President and Secretary of the Treasury.24 Speaking of the bills for the issue of treasury notes and
                    collection from deposit banks which had passed the Senate, he remarked that if
                    these bills became laws, he would be glad to go back to his masters, the people,
                    and find out what they wanted done further. "I do not stand
                    here," he said, "to register the executive will, but look to
                    the boys of the West, those with hard hands, warm hearts and strong arms, who
                    fell the forest, hold the plough and repel foreign invasion, for my
                    instructions. It is their wishes and interests that I came here to
                        represent."25
            
            In 1838 a bill to organize the Indians who were living west of 
                        Missouri
                     and 
                        Arkansas
                     into a territory was presented in the Senate. 
                  
                     21
                            Congressional Debates, XIII, p. 978.
                  
                     22
                            Congressional Debates, XII, p. 387.
                  
                     23
                            Congressional Debates, XIV, p. 244.
                  
                     24
                            Congressional Debates, XIV, p. 247.
                  
                     25
                            Congressional Debates, XIV, p. 247.
               
                     Tipton was anxious for this bill to pass He
                    thought the Indians were capable of a high state of civilization if they were
                    given a government and lands suited to them. Senator King of 
                        Alabama
                     proposed as an amendment to the bill that all the country west of
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                     and north of the Missouri river to which the
                    Indian title was extinguished be set apart for the northern Indians.26 Tipton objected to this amendment because he did not wish
                    to see another slave State made out of this territory. He spoke reluctantly on
                    the subject of slavery into which he had been drawn. The extension of slavery,
                    he said, into territory where it did not already exist, he decidedly opposed.
                    However, he had no sympathy with the Abolition movement. He did not believe in
                    disturbing the people of the slaveholding States in their rights of property. If
                    people wanted to live in slave States they could settle south of the line of the 
                        Missouri
                     Compromise, or north of it if they preferred to live in a free
                        State.27
            
            In his circular to the people of Indiana, written from Washington on the last day
                    of the first session of the Twenty-Fourth Congress, Tipton mentioned the subject
                    of the annexation of 
                        Texas
                    , which had been discussed in Congress. Tipton was not in favor of
                    annexation, as he thought the climate of 
                        Texas
                     might cause the people to use slave labor. "While we
                    should scrupulously refrain from interfering with this institution in the States
                    of our Union where it now exists, we should also be careful to do nothing that
                    will tend to its further propagation among us."28
            
            Some further quotations from this circular will show the matters before Congress
                    in which Tipton took most interest:
            It has been a question of much interest how this large surplus [from the sale of
                    public lands] could be constitutionally disposed of. Much of the time of this
                    session has been spent in discussion upon this subject and at a late day a law
                    regulating the deposits of the public money was passed. The law provides that
                    after leaving in the treasury of the 
                        United States
                     five millions of dollars the surplus is, on the first of January,
                    1837, to be deposited with such of the several States as shall by law authorize
                    their treasurer or competent authority to receive the same, in proportion to
                    their respective representation in the Senate and House of Representatives of
                    the 
                        United States
                    .… The portion that Indiana will receive will probably
                    equal one million dollars. The circulation of this money, together with the
                    large sums flowing into our country from abroad, will unquestionably make the
                    money market easy, and will enable the Fund Commissioners to procure the
                    necessary funds to carry 
                  
                     26
                            Congressional Globe, IV, p. 315.
                  
                     27
                            Congressional Globe, VI, p. 347.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Canal Telegraph, August 6, 1836.
               
                     on our public works. Our portion of the
                    Surplus Revenue will enable Indiana to push forward her great schemes of
                    Internal Improvement with spirit and economy.
            A bill establishing a number of new post routes in all the States became a law.
                    In this Indiana has been amply provided for. All the routes asked for by our
                    citizens, so far as I know, have been established; and in the northern part of
                    the State, I procured the insertion of some new routes on which it may not be
                    necessary to put the mail at this time. The routes from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     via Turkey Creek Prairie to 
                        Ottawa
                    ; from Peru to Sparta, and that from Strawtown via Camden to Delphi,
                    may be of this class.29
            
            An appropriation of two hundred and fifty thousand dollars was made for the
                    continuation of the Cumberland Road in Indiana, and for procuring materials for
                    a bridge over the 
                        Wabash
                     at 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Twenty thousand dollars were also appropriated for the
                    commencement of a harbor at 
                        Michigan City
                    . A bill passed the Senate, but was left among the unfinished
                    business of the House of Representatives authorizing the purchase by the 
                        United States
                     of the stock owned by individuals in the 
                        Louisville
                     and 
                        Portland
                     Canal, for the purpose of relieving the navigation of the 
                        Ohio
                     from the payment of extravagant tolls to the Canal Company.
            The bill appropriating fifty thousand dollars to improve the navigation of the 
                        Wabash
                     was not finally acted on by the House of Representatives, although
                    it passed the Senate at an early day of the session.
            Treaties have been lately concluded by Colonel A. C. Pepper with the Pottawatomie
                    tribe of Indians for most of their land in our State. These treaties have been
                    ratified by the President and Senate, and there now remains no doubt that these
                    Indians will very soon remove to their new homes west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , stipulations to that effect having been embraced in each treaty.
            I regret to state that our repeated attempts at negotiation with the Mi-amis have
                    been, as yet, unsuccessful. In 1832 an appropriation was made by Congress and
                    commissioners appointed who endeavored to purchase the land belonging to the
                    tribe; but they did not succeed. In 1833 commissioners were again appointed by
                    the President, one of whom was the agent for the Mi-amis.… They spent
                    some time and a considerable amount of money, but without effecting a purchase.
                    The next year the delegation in Congress from the State requested the Executive
                    to make another effort, and in the fall of that year articles of a treaty were
                    signed by the Indians, ceding a small portion of their lands, but reserving from
                    sale some of the best and most valuable tracts, situated on and near the line of
                    our canal. The President made objections to this treaty and refused to submit it
                    to the Senate for ratification. I was anxious that it might be ratified, because
                    I considered it the best that could be obtained. As some have asserted that I
                    was opposed to its ratification, I annex a copy of my letter of the 15th day of
                    June to the Secretary of War on that subject and his reply thereto.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        "
                              Washington
                           ,
                                        June 15, 1836.
                        "Sir:
                        A report has been circulated to my prejudice in Indiana, that I
                                    opposed the ratification of the Treaty, negotiated by General
                                    Marshall, with the 
                              
                                 29 This business of establishing
                                            post roads was the "pork barrel" of
                                            the Congressmen of that day.
                           
                                     Miami tribe of Indians in
                                    October, 1834. To enable me to disabuse the public mind on that
                                    subject, and to establish the falsehood of the charge, I am
                                    compelled to ask you to state the substance of a conversation
                                    that took place between the President of the 
                                        United States
                                    , you, and myself, the morning after you requested
                                    an interview with the delegation from Indiana respecting that
                                    treaty. Be good enough to state whether I did not inform the
                                    President and yourself that I was anxious to ratify each and
                                    every part of that treaty, except the provision making it the
                                    duty of the President to purchase from the State of Indiana for
                                    the Indians, a strip of land, six chains in width, granted by
                                    the Treaty of 1826, for the purpose of constructing roads, or
                                    canals, through Indian reservations, and whether I have not
                                    frequently expressed this to be my intention and wishes.
                        
                                     rend="right">"Your obedient servant,
                                    "Hon. Lewis Cass, Secretary of War.
                                    "JOHN TIPTON.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Secretary Cass answered June 30:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        "Sir:
                        In answer to your letter I have the honor to inform you that my
                                    recollection of your views respecting the ratification of the
                                    Miami Treaty coincides with your statement. I have conversed
                                    with the President on the subject to-day and this also is his
                                    opinion.
                        
                                    "Your obedient servant,
                                    "Gen. John Tipton, Senate."
                                    "LEWIS CASS.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            December 7, 1837, Tipton presented a petition from citizens of Indiana, residing
                    in 
                        Miami county
                    , praying Congress to pass a law-granting pre-emption rights to the
                    lands along the canal, ceded by the Miamis at the treaty in 1834. This
                    resolution was referred to the Committee on Public Lands, and a bill was
                    reported. In this debate, January 25, 1838, Tipton opposed Senator O. H. Smith,
                    of Indiana, who thought that as these lands had been given to aid the State in
                    internal improvements, pre-emption rights should not be granted. Tipton spoke of
                    the suffering the settlers in these lands had undergone while penetrating the
                    forests, cutting down the trees, and breaking the soil, to show that they were
                    entitled to pre-emption.30
            
            The Legislature of Indiana, a few days before the close of the session of 1838,
                    introduced a resolution of censure on the subject of the vote given by Tipton on
                    the Pre-emption Bill, pronouncing this a violation of the trust confided in him.
                    This resolution was adopted by a vote of 34 to 8, Senator John Ewing, of 
                        Knox
                    , Tipton's former enemy, being one of the few to vote
                    against it.31
            
            As soon as Tipton heard of this resolution he replied in a letter to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Indiana Democrat saying that he had been in public life for
                    more than a quarter of a century and this was the 
                  
                     30
                            Congressional Globe, VI, p. 137.
                  
                     31
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Herald, March 1, 1838.
               
                     first time that he had been charged with
                    the violation of public duty from a respectable source. He thought it strange
                    that he was to be censured because he had had a difference of opinion from
                    Senator Smith. He had received a letter informing him that one senator who voted
                    for the resolution had done so because he had been informed that Tipton had
                    chosen the best parts of the Miami lands, and put persons there to make
                    improvements so that he might claim them under the pre-emption laws. This
                    charge, he declared, was false. Tipton went on to say that he had never begged
                    his seat in the Senate; on the contrary, he was anxious to retire from public
                    life and firmly intended to do so at the end of his term. He closed his letter
                    as follows: "I would scorn to hold a seat in the 
                        United States
                     Senate one day after a majority of my constituents wished another
                    to fill the place I now hold; but I am not to be deterred from a faithful
                    discharge of my duty to our State by the assaults of envious enemies or the
                    aspirations of those who wish to force themselves into the place I now
                        occupy."32
            
            In a letter written in 
                        Washington
                     May 7, 1838, and printed in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Indiana Democrat, Tipton declined to consider a third term in
                    the Senate. He had received many letters from members of both the Whig and
                    Democratic parties, asking him to run for another term. His principal reason for
                    refusing was his desire to superintend the education of his children. In this
                    letter he mentioned the fact that, although he was a devout Democrat, many Whigs
                    had supported him.33 Such diverse papers as the Logans-port
                        Herald and the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    
                  
                            Wayne
                         Chronicle supported him.
            In the latter part of the summer and the early fall of 1838 Tipton won great
                    praise for his success in removing the Pottawatomies from their lands in Indiana
                    to their new home beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                    . By a treaty made in 1832 the Pottawatomies had sold all claims to
                    land in Indiana except a few small reservations. These reservations had been
                    bought up by Colonel Abel C. Pepper, who had been appointed by Jackson for the
                    purpose in 1836. By a treaty made in 1836, the Indians had reserved the right to
                    stay on this land two years. The time was up August 5, 1838, but the Indians
                    would not give up to the settlers who demanded possession. A quarrel followed.
                    The Indians chopped down the door of a Mr. Waters and threatened his life; the
                    whites burned ten or twelve Indian cabins.34
            
            
               
                  32
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Herald, April 19, 1838.
               
                  33
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Telegraph, June 9, 1838.
               
                  34
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Herald, November 15, 1838.
            
            
            Colonel Abel C. Pepper, Indian Agent, wrote a letter from Logansport to Governor
                    David Wallace telling of this trouble on the Pottawatomie Reservation and asking
                    the Governor to send him an officer with 100 volunteers. Wallace the next day
                    wrote to John Tipton, authorizing him to take command of a company of volunteers
                    and report to Pepper.
            Tipton immediately proceeded to organize the corps, informing the Governor that
                    being a 
                        United States
                     senator he would accept no pay for his services. He left 
                        Logansport
                    , August 28, for Chippewa, where he stayed until 3 o'clock
                    the next day. He arrived at Twin Lake, August 30, at 11:30
                    o'clock. Here he found Pepper holding a conference with the chiefs of
                    all the Pottawatomies east of the 
                        Mississippi
                    . They gave no explanation to Tipton of their recent conduct. The
                    next day, August 31, Tipton organized his volunteers with the following
                    officers: David Evans, major; N. D. Grover, E. A. Hannegan and Joseph Holman,
                    captains; S. Lasselle and James Nash, first lieutenants; Samuel B. Linton,
                    second lieutenant; William Wilson, Washington Holman and Charles McClure,
                    ensigns; Job B. Eldridge, lieutenant, and Benjamin H. Smith ensign of the
                    volunteer dragoons.
            September 1 and 2 a number of the Pottawatomies came to Tipton with their
                    families and property, expressing a desire to move beyond the 
                        Mississippi
                    . At 2 o'clock on the afternoon of September 2, Tipton
                    began enrolling them, and by sunset had enrolled 700. The next day he enrolled
                    47 more and began to load the Indians ’ baggage in his thirteen army
                    wagons. Early on the morning of September 4 they left Twin
                    Lake, and got to Chippewa by sunset, where they were joined by a few
                    more Indians. At 9 o'clock September 5 they left Chippewa. The Indians
                    had only 280 horses, so that many of the women and old men went on foot.
            At the encampment at 
                        Logansport
                    , September 8, 1838, Tipton discharged the volunteers under Captain
                    Holman and Lieutenant Eldridge. The dragoons under Ensign B. H. Smith's
                    command went with the Indians.35
            
            September 18, 1838, near Sandusky Point, 
                        Illinois
                    , Tipton delivered his Indians, 859 in all, to his uncle, Judge
                    William Polke, who had been appointed to conduct them to their new homes.
            September 20 Tipton discharged all the men except fourteen dragoons under Ensign
                    Smith, who were to accompany Judge Polke. Tipton received much commendation for
                    the manner in 
                  
                     35
                            
                                Logansport
                            
                            Herald, November 8, 1838.
               
                     which he accomplished this removal of the
                    Indians without any bloodshed.36
            
            March 3, 1839, Tipton's term in the Senate expired. He retired to his
                    home in 
                        Logansport
                    , hoping to enjoy the private life he desired so much. His death
                    occurred a little more than a month later, April 5, his stubborn courage having
                    given way at the death of his wife a few days before.
            In private life General Tipton was an energetic, public-spirited citizen. He was
                    a magnificent specimen of the pioneer, more like 
                        Boone
                    , Kenton, Clark, or Jo. Daviess than like the elder Harrison and
                    Lincoln. His proud haughty nature was an evidence of his early life and training
                    among slave owners. Two cities of Indiana enjoyed his patronage, yet at his
                    death in neither of them, Logans-port nor Columbus, could it be said that he was
                    popular. The following paragraph, written by Senator Tipton thirty-nine days
                    before his death, in answer to a personal attack by one of his neighbors, will
                    show both sides of his character:
            For the information of the people who have settled in the vicinity since 1830, I
                    submit the following remarks and call on those who were here at an earlier day
                    to correct any errors into which my recollection of transactions long since gone
                    by may lead me.
            When the town plat was surveyed in 1828, I advised the proprietors to sell lots
                    very low—from fifty to seventy-five dollars,—and to
                    receive in payment manufactured articles or labor of the mechanic. If Mr. B.
                    [author of the article attacking him. However, it was Williamson Wright and not
                    Mr. B.] will inquire of C. Carter, H. B. McKeen, Colonel Ewing, and C. Taber
                    they can inform him that I paid $50 for the lot on which General
                    Grover now lives, and gave it to the first physician who settled in town, and
                    $75 for the lot on which Washington Hall was erected, and gave it to
                    a person provided he would establish a tavern thereon. The records will tell who
                    paid most of the money for the erection of the seminary, teacher's
                    house and other public buildings, and to establishing printing presses in town.
                    The very respectable religious societies who have built the chapel and churches
                    in town will, I hope, not think it indecorous in me to refer the inquisitive to
                    them for proof of what I have done to assist them. Not a public building has
                    been erected in town to which I have not contributed, and I state it as my firm
                    belief that I have advanced more money and property to public objects than any
                    twenty men in town. I challenge Mr. B. to investigate the matter—the
                    materials are within his reach to enable him to ascertain the facts, and if I
                    have not contributed more than himself and any other nineteen men in town, then
                    I promise to do so as soon as it can be shown that I am in error in this matter.
            But enough of this! Why should I spend time in combating an anonymous scribbler
                    before a community who heard a stupid dolt in the form of a 
                  
                     36 For a detailed account of this see article by
                            Logan Esary in 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, October 28, 1912.
               
                     man, professing to belong to that most
                    honorable profession, the lam, in town meeting, when the
                    subject under consideration was the propriety of securing a city charter,
                    declare that his object in going in for the measure was to reach my property
                    around town with a tax for the benefit of the corporation. I cannot, will not
                    believe that a majority of my neighbors possess such fiendlike feelings to
                    me.…
            While I was a public man I freely admitted the right of every citizen to
                    investigate the conduct of their public servants and paid but little attention
                    to ill-natured remarks thrown out against me; but, having retired from all
                    public concerns to my farm in sight of the village where I had hoped to live in
                    peace and expect to die, I feel that I am one of the humblest of the humble
                    citizens of our county. Yet I will guard my reputation with the same tenacity
                    now that I did thirty-one years ago when I first entered Indiana territory an
                    orphan boy, in pursuit of fortune and fame. And he that assails me may expect a
                    manly resistance.37
            
            The letter is entirely characteristic. He went far afield in search of quarrels.
                    He expected his leadership to stand unchallenged. His experience with the
                    founders of the city of 
                        Columbus
                    , to which place he had moved soon after the close of the War of
                    1812 is evidence. Unable to impress his leadership on the founders of the
                    village, so the tradition goes, and angered perhaps because they changed the
                    name from Tiptona to 
                        Columbus
                    , Tipton quit the town, for which he had donated part of his land,
                    and vowed never to set foot on its streets again.
            Tipton was married twice. His first wife was his cousin, Jennie Shields, a
                    daughter of John Shields, a member of the Lewis and Clark expedition. Of their
                    two children, Speier Spencer Tipton graduated at West Point and was killed in
                    the Mexican war, and Matilda died in her eighteenth year while in school. His
                    second wife was the daughter of his old captain, Speier Spencer. She was the
                    niece of Judge William Polk and as a small child had been carried into captivity
                    by the Indians, and with her mother, brothers and sisters, spending a year in
                    captivity, with the Indians in and around 
                        Detroit
                    . They had three children, two of whom died in 
                        California
                     in the ‘60s. The third lived at 
                        Logansport
                    , where his descendants still reside.
            John Tipton became a member of Pisgah Lodge of Free Masons soon after he came to
                    Corydon. September 14, 1820, he was elected Grand Master of the State Lodge, the
                    third to fill that position. He was reelected November 28, 1828. When he moved
                    to Logans-port he helped to organize a society of Masons, which, in his honor,
                    was named Tipton Lodge.
            
               
                  37
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Herald, February 28, 1839.
            
            
            In many respects Tipton was a remarkable man. His life was picturesque. Among the
                    Indians, in the camps, or in the humble cabins of the rough pioneers, he was at
                    home. As an Indian agent he ranks with George Rogers Clark and Anthony Wayne. At
                    the Treaty Grounds his imperious manner held the Indians in submission. His lack
                    of education, if there was a lack, was so far overcome in after life that he was
                    at no disadvantage in the 
                        United States
                     Senate, where he associated with General Cass, Presidents Van Buren
                    and Jackson and Senators Benton and Clay on easy and equal terms. He had little
                    time for the more polished members from the East. He was not an elegant or
                    eloquent speaker, but usually went directly to the point. He could not stand the
                    lash of criticism, and for that reason rarely engaged in debate. He had no
                    patience with policy or evasion. He was an ardent Jackson man, but when that
                    President refused to sign a bill to improve the navigation of the 
                        Wabash
                    , after having signed one to improve the 
                        Tennessee
                    , Tipton laid the cudgels on him without hesitation. In politics he
                    was so liberal that at this day we hardly know how to classify him. He supported 
                        Clay
                    , Jackson, Van Buren, Harrison, Cass, the tariff, internal
                    improvements, and especially Jackson's Indian policy. He was a law to
                    himself in politics and recognized no master.
         
         
         
            A TOWN LOT ADVERTISEMENT OF 1836
            By W. O. LYNCH Professor of American History, Indiana
                    State Normal School
            THE Panic of 1837, the boom times that preceded it, and the long period of
                    depression that followed, had a profound influence on the political and social
                    development of the "Old Northwest." The discontent of the
                    years of hard times would not have been so deep had not the contrast between the
                    opportunities and possible returns of that period and the bright visions of the
                    speculative years preceding been so great. Before the panic speculation had run
                    riot, credit had enormously expanded, and property values had gone up by leaps
                    and bounds. Contemporaries tell of the enthusiasm with which men selected town
                    sites and cut up the land into town lots. The belief became current that towns
                    and cities would grow without limit. "Wherever the surveyor took the
                    magic chain and compass—no matter how remote from
                    population—there it became certain that a mighty city would at no
                    distant day arise. Paper cities flourished in a manner unparalleled, and the
                    public mind was utterly diseased."1 So wrote one
                    shrewd observer, and regarding the same mania of town-lot speculation another
                    writer said: "Agriculture and all the substantial enterprises which
                    contribute to the solid glory of a people were neglected. The land swarmed with
                    greedy speculators who cut up the woods into paper villages and constructed in
                    imagination a chain of compact cities from the head of the St. Clair to the
                    rapids of the Maumee. This was the period when there was the most immigration
                    into the territory, and the greatest influx of temporary travelers. Many were
                    defrauded. The log cabins swarmed with buyers and sellers, when there was
                    scarcely food enough to maintain the vast accession to the
                        population."2
            
            The following advertisement of a lot sale in an Indiana town published in the Indiana Journal (
                        Indianapolis
                    ) under date of September 2, 1836, is a striking example of the
                    rosy-hued visions which 
                  
                     1 Joseph N. Balestier, The Annals of 
                                    Chicago
                                
                      (January, 1840), reprinted in Fergus
                                Historical Series No. 1.
                  
                     2 James H. Lanman, "The Progress of the
                            North West," Hunt's Merchants'
                                Magazine, III, p. 39 (July, 1840).
               
                     the promoters of a new town could behold
                    when gazing into the future:
            "SALE OF TOWN LOTS AT PITTSBURG"3
            
            "The Head of Steam Navigation on the 
                            Wabash
                        
               "
            "The subscribers will offer for sale on the town plat, by public
                    auction, on the 9th and 10th days of September, between 200 and 300 valuable
                    Building Lots, in the above mentioned town. The town of 
                        Pittsburg
                     is situated on the west bank of the Wabash
                    River, immediately opposite West Delphi and about one and one half
                    miles from Delphi, the county seat of Carroll Co. The local advantages of 
                        Pittsburg
                     need only to be stated to be appreciated by every impartial
                    individual. At this place is located the great dam in the pool of which the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal crosses the Wabash river, and
                    which will be put under contract at the canal letting on the 23d inst. The upper
                    edge of the town plat extends up to the dam. The dam will be eleven feet in
                    height, and will, beyond doubt, afford the largest amount of water power in this
                    State, and probably greater than any in the western country. The fall of water
                    in the lower part of town will be between 15 and 20 feet. The dam, being built
                    and maintained at the expense of the State, facilitates the economical
                    application of the water to machinery. To these unrivalled artificial hydraulic
                    advantages, nature has superadded evident indications of extensive and valuable
                    beds of coal and iron ore in the immediate vicinity of the town. There is also
                    at the town a valuable quarry of stone suitable for building. Limestone is also
                    scattered over the surrounding country in great profusion; the country down the
                    river for several miles is supplied with limestone from this part. There are
                    also fine springs of water gushing from the bluffs back of the town plat. These
                    advantages, added to the water power, can not fail to make Pittsburg a
                    manufacturing place of great importance. Coal is not only in itself an article
                    of commerce, and a powerful agent of manufacturing prosperity, but also an
                    important auxiliary toward developing the advantage resulting from the iron ore
                    in its vicinity. There is also a vast abundance of timber in the neighborhood of
                    this place, and along the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                     for miles above, which can easily be floated down the river to
                    supply the saw mills which will be located at the dam, furnishing the town, the
                    country below, and the extensive prairies west of this with abundance of lumber.
                    The Grand Prairie commences about a mile west of this point, and will no doubt
                    procure its supply of lumber here; and here also their grain Will find a market
                    at the mills, and their produce a depot, to be transported by the river, or
                    carried to the Eastern or Southern and Western markets. In addition to all this,
                    the commercial advantages of the place assert an equality with its manufacturing
                    facilities; it stands at the head of steamboat navigation on the
                        Wabash river. Whenever steamboats can ascend the rapids
                    at 
                        Vincennes
                     they can without any inconvenience come to Pittsburg.
                    Well's 
                  
                     3 The town of 
                                Pittsburg
                             did thrive somewhat, and was the center of considerable
                            business for a place of its size until the canal and river trade became
                            unimportant. See the article following. The dam built at the place was
                            destroyed about thirty years ago. No coal or iron was ever found in that
                            part of the State. By 1850 the population of the town had reached 336.
                            It remained about the same till 1890, since which time it has
                        declined.
               
                     Ripples, at this point, has always been a
                    barrier to steamboat navigation any higher up, except when the river is swollen
                    to an unusual height, and then they can ascend many miles above. But the dam
                    located at 
                        Pittsburg
                     makes it the head of steamboat navigation on the 
                        Wabash
                    . Notwithstanding the canal, the spring supply of goods for this
                    part of the country and the country above will be furnished by the river.
                    Merchandise and produce destined for the country above will here be transported
                    from steamboats to canal and flat boats or vehicles. The superiority of a
                    location at the head of navigation on a navigable river is apparent to the most
                    ordinary observer; a view of the map of our country will show that towns
                    situated at the heads and mouths of navigable rivers have ‘gone ahead
                    ’ and have risen with astonishing celerity to be commercial
                    emporiums, with commerce extended to all parts of the world. 
                        Lafayette
                    , from circumstances which have now ceased to operate, has hitherto
                    enjoyed the advantages of steamboat navigation, and has derived a large share of
                    her importance and prosperity from that cause. These advantages will soon be
                    transferred to their natural locality—to Pittsburg, the actual head
                    of steamboat navigation. There is no town or town-site between this place and 
                        Lafayette
                     or 
                        Logansport
                     which can possibly bring it into competition with this town. There
                    is a ford at this place at which the river can be crossed when it can not be
                    forded at any place below nor for many miles above. [Terms of sale follow,
                    stating amount of credit to be extended to purchasers of lots.]
            "GEORGE MERKLE
            
            "JACOB MERKLE
            
            "FRANCIS G. KENDALL."
            "Aug. 30, 1836.
         
         
         
            FLATBOATING ON THE WABASH—A DIARY OF 1847
            ONE of the first and most difficult problems confronting the early settlers of
                    Indiana was that of transportation. The chief markets they wished to reach were
                            
                  New York, Philadelphia
                and 
                        Baltimore
                    . Two general plans were proposed. One was to build highways
                    directly over the mountains to the East. In accordance with this plan the
                    National Road and the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal were constructed. The other plan was to open up the
                    streams to navigation and transport the produce of the country down to 
                        New Orleans
                    , and thence to the East by the sea. The position of the State lent
                    itself to this plan nicely. The southern boundary was a navigable river with
                    tributaries reaching far into the interior, while on the west was the 
                        Wabash
                    , a broad stream crossing the State diagonally and throwing off
                    branches to all parts of the State.
            The General Assembly at the Fourth session, held at Corydon in 1820, declared
                    navigable nearly all the streams of the State which were capable of floating a
                    flatboat. The supervisors of the public roads were instructed
                    to. call out the road "hands" and clear these streams of
                    obstructions. Little work of this kind was done, but many attempts were made to
                    run steamboats on the upper 
                        Wabash
                     and the branches of White river. The smaller
                    streams, however, were extensively used by flatboatmen. Flatboats were built in
                    the larger pools of the streams and when the water rose sufficiently, usually in
                    March, were floated out into the 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    , thence to 
                        New Orleans
                    .
            It was no little task to propel the flatboats up stream. This was resorted to
                    only when the roads were impassable. In most cases it was impossible to get
                    along shore with a tow line, so that nearly all upstream navigation was
                    accomplished by "poling." For "poling" they
                    used a flat-bottomed boat, thirty to forty feet long, with outer guards along
                    which six or eight men walked and pushed with spike poles set against the
                    bottom. It was possible to drive a boat carrying three or four tons burden eight
                    or ten miles per day. This kind of transportation was used mostly on the upper 
                        Wabash
                    —above 
                        Lafayette
                    .
            It is impossible with the data at hand to give any adequate idea of the amount of
                    goods or the number of flatboats taken from Indiana  to 
                        New Orleans
                     each spring. The Gards, of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , loaded as many as sixteen boats at one time at their farm in the
                    Miami bottoms. Scores of boats loaded with hay and manufactured articles were
                    run from 
                        Vevay
                     each year. All the towns on the 
                        Ohio
                     riverboard contributed their fleets. From the interior each little
                    stream—Flat Rock, Muscatituck, Big Blue, Whitewater, Anderson, Oil,
                    Raccoon, Big, Loughry, Patoka, Big Pigeon, Big Sand, Eel, Wildcat, Beanblossom,
                    Sugar, Salt, and a hundred others,—sent forth its crafts in season,
                    all bound for 
                        New Orleans
                    .
            The canal commissioners of 1829 estimated the annual trade of 
                        Terre Haute
                     at 7,000 barrels of salt, 3,000 barrels of whiskey. From 
                        Terre Haute
                     alone went 3,000 barrels of pork. They placed the amount of pork of
                    the whole Wabash valley at 10,000 barrels. This was the
                    merest guess, based on the reports of passing boats at 
                        Terre Haute
                    . From April 14 to April 27, 1834, forty-one steamboats landed at
                    the 
                        Terre Haute
                     wharf.
            Almost every neighborhood in Indiana had its "port" where
                    flat-boats were loaded for the "down-river" trade. Stories and
                    traditions of this business linger in all parts of the State, but authentic data
                    is scarce. The following memorandum of a trip from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     (see preceding article) was copied by Alva O. Reser, of 
                        Lafayette
                    , Indiana, from the original manuscript, which is now in his
                    possession:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        DIARY OF THEODORE ARMITAGE, SHOWING TRIP ON
                                        FLAT BOAT FROM PITTSBURG, CARROLL COUNTY, INDIANA, TO NEW ORLEANS, ON
                                        THE FLAT BOAT "WHIG."
                        Leave 
                              Pittsburg,
                                            Carroll
                                    County
                           , Indiana, March 13th, 1847. Ran to
                                    Dugan's Landing; loaded 216 barrels of pork, March
                                    14th; cut loose Sunday, and ran to 
                                        Lafayette
                                    . Very cold and windy and snowing.
                        March 15th and 16th, Cold.
                        March 17th, Warm.
                        March 18th. Cut loose and run all islands and towheads to the
                                    right; landed at Attica, on the left at 4 o'clock.
                        March 19th. At 9 o'clock cut loose, and passed 
                                        Williamsport
                                     2 1/2 miles below on the right; landed 4 miles
                                    below on the left. Warm at 4 o'clock. Lay till the 22d
                                    and cut loose at 3 o'clock; landed at 
                                        Covington
                                     at 11 o'clock at night.
                        March 23d, Tuesday. Loaded 100 bbls. flour, 104 sacks oats, 100
                                    bu. corn.
                        March 24th, cut loose and run down to warehouse 3 miles on the
                                    right.
                        March 25th. Cut loose, passed Perryville on the right; landed at
                                    the mouth of 
                                        Vermillion
                                     Creek.
                        March 26th. Cut loose early in the morning, passed Coal Creek
                                    Bend and Sugar Creek; landed at Montezuma at noon. Windy. Cut
                                    loose after 4 o'clock; landed 3 miles above Clinton,
                                    late.
                        
                        March 27th. Very early in the morning and landed at 
                                        Clinton
                                     at sunrise.
                        March 28th. Warm.
                        March 29th. Cloudy.
                        March 30th. Loaded 260 barrels pork, 389 kegs lard, 20 bbls.
                                    lard; cut loose at 10 o'clock, passed Otter Creek Bend,
                                    a short right hand point, and landed at 
                                        Terre Haute
                                     at 5 o'clock in the evening.
                        March 31. Cut loose in the evening. Run all night and passed
                                    Darwin, 
                                        Illinois
                                    . Daylight at Wild-Goose Pond on the left. Passed
                                    York at 8 o'clock.
                        April 1. Passed Hackberry Bend some 4 or 5 miles below; cut off
                                    on the right. A very strong current into it; some rain in the
                                    afternoon; cold; landed 4 miles above Merom on the right.
                        April 2d. Cut loose at 4 o'clock in the morning; passed
                                    Coupee Points, 14 in number, at noon; landed at 
                                        Vincennes
                                     at 8 o'clock at night.
                        April 3d. Cut loose at 1 o'clock in the morning. Passed
                                        Ambro1 Island at daylight, 9 miles
                                    below, close under the right hand point. Passed 
                                        Little Rock
                                     at noon, also Racey-Dam and Grand-Rapids. C. B.
                                    Nayler stuck fast over one-third of the bend opposite the head
                                    of the island; run down to the right hand point; landed above
                                    the bar at 2 o'clock. Lay 2 hours; cut loose, and run
                                    quartering across, two-thirds back again and landed at Steamboat
                                    landing at 5 o'clock. Squally about these times.
                        April 4th. Sunday. Cut loose at 9 o'clock. Raining. Run
                                    down to the left of Coffee Island. Landed under the point at 2
                                    o'clock. Rather slow boating about these times.
                        April 5th. River raising and strong wind and heavy showers of
                                    rain. Nayler floated off at 2 o'clock in the morning
                                    and landed below me on the morning of the 6th at 8
                                    o'clock. I am very cross this morning for some reasons
                                    best known to myself.
                        April 7th. Cut loose at 4 o'clock in the morning; passed
                                    Big Drift Bend, and cut off in the middle and kept close to the
                                    right shore; passed Bompo Island to the left of it at Graysville
                                    and four miles to the right past it Bald Eagle Point some 7 or 8
                                    miles below on the left, very windy. Landed on the left hand
                                    point above Harmony at 5 o'clock.
                        April 8th. Thursday. Cut loose at 3 o'clock. Daylight at
                                        Fox River Island. Raining like the
                                    devil. Landed under the island, cut loose again, run in bend and
                                    broke steering oar. Lay some 4 hours, cut loose again; passed
                                    Grand Chain and landed in the bend below Blacks. Cut off at
                                    dark.
                        April 9th. Cut loose at 2 o'clock in the morning and
                                    made the 
                                        Ohio
                                     at 10 o'clock. Very warm. Dark at
                                    Cave-in-rock. Run all night to daylight. Cloudy. Passed Paduca
                                    at 10 o'clock. Run all day. Dark at Wilkinsonville
                                    below Masack. Made the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     at 1 o'clock in the morning of the nth,
                                    Sunday. Daylight at No. 4. Run all day. Dark at Middle Point
                                    below New Madrid. Run all night.
                        April 12th. Daylight at No. 21. Pilgrim Island. Run all day. Dark
                                    at No. 35, Benton Island, below 
                                        Randolph
                                    . Run all night.
                        April 13th. Daylight at Beef Island, No. 40 above 
                                        Memphis
                                    ; landed at 
                              
                                 1 This is a contraction of
                                            "Embarrass," and shows very nicely how
                                            many of the French names have changed.
                           
                                     the above town at sunrise.
                                    Lay 2 hours; cut loose, and run all day; landed below the first
                                    left hand point, below Commerce.
                        April 14th. Cut loose early; passed Yazoo, cut off horse-shoe
                                    Bend; landed between 62 and 63. Hard times of it, missed
                                    landing, made it again.
                        April 15th. Thursday. Cut loose early. Rain and wind. Run down
                                    opposite 64—9 miles. Landed under the left hand
                                    point. Cleared up. Cut loose at 4 o'clock; dark at 66,
                                    run all night.
                        April 16th. Friday. Daylight at 74, above Arkansas
                                        River. Cold. Run all day; dark at the Spanish
                                    Moss Bend. Run all night.
                        April 17th. Daylight above 
                                        Princeton
                                    , upper line of 
                                        Louisiana
                                    . Run all day. Windy. Run on the head of 95. Drift
                                    wood, broke two skiffs; landed at the left hand point below 98.
                        April 18th. Sunday. Cut loose at daylight. Some wind; run all
                                    day; passed Vicksburg. Dark at 
                                        Palmira
                                     Island, 106.
                        April 19th. Daylight, Bayou Pierre; run till 4 o'clock.
                                    High winds.
                        April 20th. Tuesday, cut loose; passed Natchez about 9
                                    o'clock. Run down to Ellis Cliffs on the left. Run
                                    against a snag; knocked in the side; run a mile below and
                                    landed. Lay till morning.
                        April 21st. Cut loose late; levee broke on the right; 4 boats run
                                    out. Run all day; dark at the head of Yunica Bend.
                        April 22d. Daylight below Bayou Sarah Post; (
                                        Baton Rouge
                                    ) at noon. Very warm. Dark at St. Gabriel Church 10
                                    miles below Placimine.
                        April 23. Got lost and run all day and night.
                        April 24th. Got to 
                                        New Orleans
                                     about middle of the day, 1093 miles.
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            THE CAMPAIGN OF 1876 IN INDIANA
            O. B. CARMICHAEL, A.B., Superintendent of Schools at
                    Pennville
            THE purpose of this paper is to give a better understanding of the political
                    situation in Indiana in 1876, and of the spirit that produced it, than can be
                    obtained from the books that treat the period in a more general way, and from a
                    National rather than from a local standpoint. The sources from which this study
                    was made are the leading Indiana newspapers of that year, though reference has
                    been made only to the 
                        Indianapolis
                     papers, campaign speeches and party platforms.
            Since the heavy Democratic gains in the State election of 1872 it had become
                    evident that Indiana was to be a battleground in the campaign of 1876.1 An editorial in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal of February 22, 1876, declared that Indiana could be
                    carried by the Republicans only on condition that they nominate the strongest
                    possible ticket and stand true to their traditions. It also predicted that
                    Indiana would be the battleground for the coming National campaign. The
                    Democrats were buoyant over their success in 1872 and were anticipating the
                    campaign with confident expectations of victory. Both the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel expressed the opinion that the result of the Indiana
                    State election in October, 1876, would be an important factor in determining the
                    results of the National election the following November.
            The Republican organization in the State was not by any means perfect. The
                    oppressive Reconstruction policy of the party was beginning to show its effects
                    in a wide-spread discontent, and the general prevalence of corruption in office
                    for which the party was perhaps not as much responsible as the demoralization
                    wrought by the years of warfare, was influential in increasing the discontent.
                    So the Republican party was facing a real problem at the beginning of the
                    campaign.
            Its chief organ was the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal. In an editorial on New Year's day it
                    declared its policy to be to represent the interests of society in the city and
                    State and to support the Republican party. It also declared its intention of
                    giving friend and foe a fair hearing. However fair it was in giving
                    "hearings" to foes, it was 
                  
                     1 They had elected the Governor and increased
                            their numbers in the Legislature.
               
                     sometimes far from fair in making reports
                    of them. I think it is safe to assume that the voice of the Journal was the voice of the Republican organization in Indiana at this
                    time, inasmuch as the editor was chairman of the State convention of that year
                    and succeeded in voicing all his policies into the State platform which the
                    convention adopted.
            At the beginning of the campaign the money question was predominant Nationally
                    within the Republican party. The party was divided on this subject and the
                    division was chiefly sectional. Generally speaking, the eastern Republicans
                    desired a speedy return to resumption of specie payments and the western
                    Republicans desired slower movements in the same direction. Of course Indiana
                    was with the latter faction. The act providing for the resumption of specie
                    payment on January 1, 1879, had already been passed by Congress much to the
                    satisfaction of the easterners and equally to the disgust of those in the West.
                    In an editorial of January 1, 1876, the Journal denounced the
                    Resumption Act because it was impossible to be carried out and because it was
                    injurious to business. It insisted that the healing and strengthening of time
                    was absolutely necessary to resumption and that no one could predict very far
                    ahead when the country would be ready to resume specie payment without serious
                    injury to business. It therefore demanded the immediate repeal of the Resumption
                    Act. The sweeping nature of this demand was tempered from time to time as the
                    campaign progressed, but it never became less exacting than to demand the repeal
                    of that part of the act which provided a definite time for resumption.2 As to the greenbacks and bank notes, it insisted that they
                    had both been created by the Republicans to meet special needs and that they had
                    served and were still serving their purpose. Any immediate disturbance of either
                    one was denounced, but just exactly what was to be the ultimate disposition of
                    them was evidently not perfectly clear in the minds of the party leaders. At
                    least it was not clearly expressed. Perhaps their unspoken policy was to let
                    time determine what it might be necessary to do.
            As to money basis the party spoke out, through an editorial in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal February 1, 1876, in an unmistakable way. The ultimate
                    redemption, on demand, in gold or silver of all government currency, and bank
                    notes secured by deposits in the 
                        United States
                     Treasury, or 
                        United States
                     bonds, was their unchanging policy on the money question.
            
               
                  2 Republican State Platform of 1876.
            
            
            As to education the party was inclined to be reactionary. It would not abolish
                    free schools, but it would put a limit and a check on the tendency to make
                    public education more inclusive. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal of March 28, 1876, in an editorial has the following
                    to say on the subject: "It is hardly to be supposed that the founders
                    of the system ever imagined that the time would come when the dead languages and
                    higher sciences would be taught in these schools and that academies and
                    seminaries would be virtually superseded by them. This has come to pass,
                    however, and in this city students can prepare for college without going outside
                    the graded schools. This is thought by some to be the crowning glory of the
                    system, that it is laying its hands upon every branch of learning and
                    introducing to students the mysteries of all knowledge. There can be no question
                    that this is beyond the original plan and purpose of the system. It was
                    established to furnish the people with a simple, practical education in English.
                    It was no part of the original design that foreign languages, living or dead, or
                    the higher mathematics should have any place in the curriculum of the common
                    schools, and still less, if possible, was it intended to embrace the fine
                    arts.… It has grown from a common school into a faint image of a
                    common university.… It is not hard to see in all this a great danger
                    to the system." This quotation pretty well expressed the popular
                    feeling concerning higher education at public expense. It was not voiced in
                    politics especially, but was common to both Democrats and Republicans. There
                    seemed to be a general feeling that higher education was needed only by a very
                    small per cent, of people, and that in a great many cases it tended to
                    disqualify rather than to fit one for the duties of life.
            The methods employed by the party in advancing its interests were reprehensible.
                    There was little trace of either scruple or moderation by the papers. They
                    resorted regularly to the most scathing and abusive language.
                    "Hypocrite,"
                    "swindler,""perjurer,"
                    "liar," "thief,"
                    "villain," and such words were used in profusion against
                    opponents, and no man daring to enter politics was considered too good to
                    receive a bountiful apportionment. Things were printed as statistics that were
                    concoctions pure and simple. The opponent was not only said to be wholly in the
                    wrong, but was knowingly so, and always for the express purpose of injuring the
                    State or society. Reason was pushed aside and passion was appealed to. Of  course there was nothing gained by this,
                    but on the other hand, there was little lost by it, for all parties were much
                    the same in this respect.
            The Independent Greenback party at this time was rapidly gaining in numbers and
                    its recruits were chiefly from the Republican ranks. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal repeatedly complained of this condition and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel exulted in it and gave it as the chief basis for
                    their expected increased majority at the coming election, an expectation that
                    proved to be well founded. So it may be taken as a safe assertion that in 1876
                    the Greenback gains usually meant Republican losses. This was due to the
                    wide-spread general discontent with the Grant administration and with the
                    Republican financial policy.
            The Republican State convention met at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on February 22. It was perhaps the largest that had ever convened
                    in the State up to that time. Hon. E. B. Martindale, editor of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, was made permanent chairman. In his address to the
                    convention he reviewed the record of his party since it had come into power and
                    declared it to be unparalleled in history.3 He declared that
                    a strong ticket could be selected, and he admonished the convention to
                    harmonious action. He denounced inflation and advocated the eventual return to
                    resumption of specie payment, but demanded the repeal of the Resumption Act on
                    the grounds that it was impractical. He declared that the Democrats were
                    Confederate at heart and were seeking to undo the work of the war.
            At the close of his address he called for the report of the Committee on
                    Resolutions, which submitted a report as follows (condensed): (1) For Republican
                    principles and traditions, for election reform, and for the vindication of
                    popular representation; (2) against State impediment to National laws; (3)
                    against the right of secession; (4) for independence of both State and Nation
                    when acting in its own proper circles; (5) to forgive the Confederates who
                    desired to be forgiven, but not to put them on an equality with those who had
                    remained loyal, declaring flatly that the North had been right in the War and
                    that the South had been wrong; (6) against the removal of Union soldiers to make
                    room for ex-Confederates; (7) qualification for civil office on basis of their
                    preparation for the place, their moral integrity and loyalty to the Nation; (3)
                    equal rights for all and special privileges for none; (9) separation of church
                    and State; (10) revenue so to be adjusted as to secure encouragement 
                  
                     3
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, February 3, 1876.
               
                     of home industry and harmony between labor
                    and capital; (11) the lightest revenue should be levied on necessities and the
                    heaviest revenues on luxuries; (12) for the ultimate resumption of specie
                    payment, but the repeal of that part of the Resumption Act fixing a definite
                    date for the beginning of resumption; (13) for the preservation of greenbacks to
                    meet present currency needs; (14) it declared that our credit had been bad and
                    revenue insufficient in 1861, and that in 1876 our credit was good and the
                    revenue adequate; (15) against payment of any part of the Confederate debt or
                    remuneration of Confederates for any property loss caused by the war; (16) for
                    public economy; (17) common education to be fostered by the State, but not
                    higher education; (18) for letting the will of the majority be law; (19) for
                    providing for the soldier, his widow, and his orphan; (20) President Grant was
                    commended; (21) Oliver P. Morton was endorsed for President of the 
                        United States
                    .
            The report was unanimously accepted and strong enthusiasm was manifested. The
                    working of the convention from the first gave evidence of a well-oiled machine.
                    The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel of February 23 had the following comment upon the
                    convention, which certainly is partly justified by the results: "The
                    masses were not represented. It was a cut and dried convention in which the
                    servants came up to register the edicts of the masters."
            Godlove S. Orth was nominated for Governor on the first ballot, receiving 1,125
                    votes when only 945 were necessary to a choice.4 Mr. Orth
                    was born and educated in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . He settled in 
                        Tippecanoe county
                     in 1839. He served two terms in the State Senate, beginning in
                    1843, and was a captain in the Union army. He was a member of the Thirty-eighth,
                    Thirty-ninth, Fortieth, Forty-first and Forty-third Congresses. At the time of
                    his nomination he was at 
                        Vienna
                     as 
                        United States
                     minister. The other men balloted for against Mr. Orth were Judge
                    James C. Denny, David C. Bran-ham, of 
                        Jefferson county
                    , Lieutenant-Governor Leonidas Sexton, and Albert G. Porter, of 
                        Marion county
                    .
            Robert S. Robertson, of 
                        Allen county
                    , was nominated for Lieutenant-Governor without opposition. He was
                    born and educated in 
                        New York
                    , served in the Union army and moved to Indiana at the close of the
                    War. He had been a zealous Republican from the beginning of that party and a
                    persistent office seeker, though with poor success. In person he was tall and
                    fine looking. In the nominations 
                  
                     4
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, February 23, 1876.
               
                     for judges of the Supreme Court the same
                    smooth precision prevailed as in the gubernatorial nominations. For the First
                    district William P. Edson, of 
                        Posey county
                    , born and educated in Indiana, and having served two terms as
                    common pleas judge, was nominated. For the Second district A. C. Voris, of 
                        Lawrence county
                    , a graduate of 
                        Hanover
                     College and of the law department of 
                        Harvard
                    , and a veteran of the Civil War, was nominated. For the Third
                    district Judge Newcomb, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was nominated. He was a leading lawyer of the city, having served
                    repeatedly in both houses of the Legislature. For the Fourth district J. F.
                    Kibbey, of 
                        Wayne county
                    , was nominated. He was a native of Indiana, having been born and
                    raised in 
                        Wayne county
                    . He had served as attorney-general under Governor Morton and as
                    judge of the Sixth judicial common pleas district from 1865 to 1873.
            The remaining nominees were faithful party servants and selected without
                    opposition, their biographies all having been written and ready for the same
                    issue of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal with the announcement of their nominations (February
                    23, 1876): For Secretary of State, Isaac P. Watts, of 
                        Randolph county
                    ; for Auditor of State, William M. Hess, of 
                        Hendricks county
                    ; for Treasurer of State, George F. Herriott, of 
                        Johnson county
                    ; for Attorney-General, Jonathan W. Gordon, of 
                        Marion county
                    ; for Reporter of the Supreme Court, L. T. Miller, of 
                        Warren county
                    ; for Clerk of the Supreme Court, Charles Scholl, of 
                        Clark county
                    ; for Superintendent of Public Instruction, Oliver H. Smith, of 
                        Spencer county
                    .
            Following the convention things remained fairly quiet in political circles until
                    May 10, when the campaign was formally opened with a rousing speech by the Hon.
                    Jonathan W. Gordon in the Academy of Music at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Mr. Gordon attacked the Democratic party on their traditional
                    anti-nationalism. He declared that it had always been against nationalism and
                    had been the advocate of a loose federation of States. He pointed out the
                    weakness and danger of such traditions and warned against them. He then laid
                    open the war record of the Democratic party and displayed the "bloody
                    shirt" in a manner characteristic of his temperament. He closed with an
                    appeal for Republican support; even in spite of a few party mistakes or sins of
                    individual Republicans he urged loyalty to the party as the only safe road.
            The Democratic party in the State was in better condition, generally speaking,
                    than was the Republican party. But as is usually the case with the party in
                    power, the Republican machine was in  better
                    working order than the Democratic machine, although the Democrats were more
                    harmonious. The defeat of the latter in i860 and their exile from power had
                    taught them the value of unity in action. Then, too, they were on the aggressive
                    side and had the recent Republican blunders with which to charge their
                    opponents, while the Republicans had to go back nearly a generation to find
                    mistakes with which to charge their opponents. Then the war record boast of the
                    Republicans was rapidly losing its power. People were beginning to desire a
                    change. The conditions in this respect resembled those of 1828. It did not take
                    a prophetic eye to see that the Democrats were fighting a winning battle. Their
                    leading organ was the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel. In methods it was much the same as the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, which has already been described. It may fairly be
                    assumed that it voiced the Western Democratic principles as well as any
                    newspaper could have done.
            On the money question the western Democrats in general stood for cheap money.
                    Broadly speaking, they were the debtor class and desired cheap money with which
                    to pay their debts. They were, therefore, squarely and uncompromisingly against
                    the Resumption Act and for its immediate and unconditional repeal. They regarded
                    it as a sure means of contraction of currency and they were anti-contractionists
                    almost to the point of becoming straight-out inflationists. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, January 3, remarked with disgust:
                    "Contraction of the currency goes on to the oppression of the debtor
                    and to the pleasure of the bondholder and money lender." Judging from
                    the frequency with which the matter of resumption of specie payments is treated
                    and from the tone of the comments there was no subject of more interest to the
                    Democrats than the repeal of the Resumption Act. A Sentinel
                    editorial, June 13, declared that the recent Republican losses were chiefly due
                    to the unpopularity of the Resumption Act and to Orth's known
                    friendliness toward the act. Another Sentinel editorial,
                    February 19, is as follows: "There remains upon the statute books of
                    the country a law that is doing positive injury to the business energy and
                    enterprise of the country and crippling and paralyzing all kinds of business,
                    … and its noxious influence now promises to bankrupt the country if
                    not repealed. … It is needless to say that we refer to the Resumption
                    Bill of Sherman adopted in January, 1875." This is but an example of
                    the many attacks made upon the law. Governor Hendricks was the only prominent
                    western Democrat to voice a policy of resumption under any guise and that was in
                    a very weak and  indefinite manner. At
                    different times he talked in very different ways on the subject. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal declared that he was considered a "hard
                    money" man in the East and a "soft money" man in the
                    West and that he was trying to cater to the support of both the eastern and
                    western Democrats.
            In regard to greenbacks and bank notes the Democrats were still more pronounced.
                    The greenback answered their demand for cheap money in a very satisfactory
                    manner, but they distrusted the National bank note. They seemed to understand
                    that the two were in competition and that the life of the bank note would mean
                    the sure death of the greenback. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, February 23, in criticising the Republican State
                    platform, said: "It leaves the bank note free to destroy the
                    greenbacks, entailing twenty million dollars of interest that need not be
                    paid." It seemed to be the opinion that since the bank notes were
                    backed by Government bonds they would be a sounder currency and therefore drive
                    out the greenbacks, a thing that is directly counter to the economic principle
                    that the cheaper of two currencies will drive out the dearer. Then it seemed to
                    be the opinion that since the Government was paying interest on the bonds
                    securing the bank notes that the Government was reaping no returns from the use
                    of the money and hence a sheer waste of the interest paid. The fallacy of this
                    reasoning is certainly apparent.
            The Hon. Frank Landers, one of the Democratic aspirants for Governor, in January,
                    1876, said in a speech at 
                        Greencastle
                     that the land of the farmer was pledged to the payment of the bank
                    notes and that for this obligation they had not a cent of advantage to show. It
                    is difficult to say with certainty whether with Mr. Landers was ignorant of the
                    situation or whether he was working on the supposed ignorance of his hearers. It
                    is clear enough why the western Democrats should have opposed resumption, but it
                    is not so clear why they should have opposed the bank notes, unless it was that
                    they were ignorant of the real nature of the notes and of economic laws. Their
                    one thought seemed to be to get a currency that would entail the least possible
                    expense to the Government. An editorial in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, Februry 24, denounced the Republican law providing
                    for the replacing of fractional currency with silver coin on the ground that it
                    would cost money to buy the bullion to make the coin.
            As to a money basis the Democratic plan seems vague. Since it was cheap money
                    that they desired a very definite basis was not  necessary. Landers took the position that when the
                    Government stamped a piece of paper declaring it to be legal tender that was all
                    the basis it required, and that seems to have been the most generally accepted
                    theory among western Democrats. In the East, of course, it was different, but in
                    Indiana at this time ideas of money were generally defective. People as a rule
                    had a high opinion of the National Government and were loyal to it and thought
                    that its simple touch was sufficient to change paper into money that would
                    circulate at par without any further backing. The methods resorted to, as it has
                    been pointed out, were coarse and abusive and not well adapted to the winning of
                    followers. It was a fault of the times.
            The relation between the Democratic party and the Independent Greenback party was
                    rather intimate. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal complained of this and bewailed the fact that the
                    Greenbackers were chiefly from the Republican ranks. A Sentinel editorial, June 13, declared that the weakness of the Republicans
                    was mainly due to desertions to the Greenbackers and to the unpopularity of the
                    Resumption Act and to the friendliness of Mr. Orth to the act. Then, too, their
                    friendship was shown in the fact that the Greenbackers nominated Frank Landers,
                    a prominent Democrat, as their candidate for Governor. In the political speeches
                    they criticised each other very little. Their platforms were much alike and in
                    fact there was not enough important difference to justify their forming two
                    separate parties.
            The Democratic party in Indiana at this time was brim full of what may be termed
                    the western pioneer democratic spirit. It was inclined to lionize the common
                    every-day man that was not too highly educated and who bore the marks of
                        toil.5 They were inclined to suspect men who wore kid
                    gloves and spoke correct English. They were inclined to doubt whether he could
                    have anything in common with their ideals and interests.
            On April 19 the Democratic State Convention met at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . There was less evidence of machine rule than was seen at the
                    Republican Convention in February before. However, the Democratic meeting was
                    more inclined toward disorder. Thomas R. Cobb, of 
                        Vincennes
                    , was elected president of the convention and John W. Kern, of 
                        Kokomo
                    , was elected secretary. The president announced that he would make
                    no address and proceeded directly to the work 
                  
                     5
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, September i, 1876: "Fifteen
                            thousand people meet Uncle Jimmy (Williams) at
                            Wheatland. Our farmer candidate meets the people farmiliarly in the
                            groves of his own town."
               
                     of the convention. Amid tumult that was
                    well-nigh distracting the names W. S. Holman, Franklin Landers, J. D. Williams
                    and Daniel Voorhees were placed before the convention for gubernatorial
                    nomination. The tumult became so overwhelming that the president called for the
                    reading of the platform in hopes that it would restore order. It did restore a
                    degree of order, but it did not last after the work of nomination was resumed.
                    The Convention from beginning to end was characterized by excessive tumult.
            There was a sharp controversy between Franklin Landers and the people backing Mr.
                    Holman. Mr. Landers played the part of a demagogue, but without success. The
                    wrangling between the Landers-Holman factions resulted in the carrying of a
                    motion just before the announcement of the result of the second ballot to make
                    the nomination of James D. Williams unanimous.
            Mr. Williams was born in 
                        Ohio
                     in 1808, but came to 
                        Knox county
                    , Indiana, with his parents while yet a mere boy. He was reared on
                    the farm and accustomed to the knocks of a frontier life. He was certainly an
                    honest man, though what many people would term a close dealer, even approaching
                    the miserly. He served, in all, twenty-nine years in the Legislature and twelve
                    years on the State Board of Agriculture, and was one of the wealthiest land
                    owners in Indiana. He would wear nothing but home-grown, home-spun, home-woven
                    and home-made clothes. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, April 20, 1876, attributed this conduct to his
                    loyalty to home products, but his less sympathetic observers attributed it to
                    his love of the dollar and to the deep anguish that came to him on seeing a
                    dollar leave his clutches. He had been elected to Congress in 1874 by a majority
                    of over 7,000 and during his stay there was an advocate of the same rigid
                    economy that characterized his private dealings. In personal appearance he was
                    extremely homely. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, September 7, 1876, has the following pen picture of
                    Mr. Williams. Of course it is not from a sympathetic source, but has some
                    historical as well as literary value: "He is a difficult man to
                    describe. Abraham Lincoln was an Admiral Crichton in comparison and Richard
                    Smith would be like an Apollo Belvidere along side of him. The English language
                    would never recover from the shock of a detailed and accurate description of his
                    general appearance and it would take Uncle John Robinson in his most energetic
                    and capable moments to properly emphasize his political points and
                    peculiarities. He is as handsome as a black india-rubber baby drawn out to its
                    greatest possible length and its face pinched out of shape. His  head, in shape, is of the sugar-loaf order and is
                    covered with a short stubby growth of bristling iron grey hair. His only
                    whiskers is a little bunch of the same description of hair grown upon his
                    "Adam's Apple" and sticking out between the hard
                    yellow starched ends of his cotton sideboards, that serve on either side of his
                    head to support the heavy dewlap of his enormous ears. His eyes are small and
                    closely set against the high narrow bridge of his long sharp inquisitive nose.
                    His mouth looks as if it had been put on warm and ran all over the lower part of
                    his face before it got set and it opens like the opening of navigation in
                    spring. Looking him full in the face gives one the idea of a narrow, loaded hay
                    barge with broadside sails set, coming down stream with the front cabin doors
                    wide open. His long lean legs part with each other in disgust at the hips and
                    pursue separate and diverging paths to the knees, when negotiations for
                    reconciliation are entered into, which takes place finally at the ends of the
                    toes of two great feet which join each other lovingly while the heels still
                    remain estranged and keep as far away from each other as possible."
            Col. Isaac P. Gray, of 
                        Randolph county
                    , was nominated for Lieutenant-Governor. Mr. Gray was born in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . He moved to Indiana in 1855 and opened a law office in Union City.
                    He served with distinction in the Civil war and was in the State Senate from
                    1868 to 1872. For Secretary of State John Enos Neff, of 
                        Randolph county
                    , was nominated. He was the youngest man on the ticket by several
                    years, being yet under thirty years of age. He had studied at Indiana University
                    and immediately took up the practice of law. He was an exceptionally gifted
                    young man. Ebenezer Henderson, the successful candidate for the nomination for
                    Auditor of State, was a shrewd political manipulator and a man of great wealth.
                    He was nominated to succeed himself. The remaining nominees were all rather
                    commonplace politicians and not of special prominence. They were as follows:
            For Treasurer of State, Benjamin C. Shaw, a carriage maker, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; for Attorney-General, Clarence A. Buskirk, of 
                        Princeton
                    ; for State Superintendent of Public Instruction, James H. Smart, of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ; for Clerk of the Supreme Court, Gabriel Schmuck, of 
                        Perry county
                    ; for Reporter of the Supreme Court, A. N. Martin, of 
                        Wells county
                    ; for Judges of the Supreme Court—First district, S. H.
                    Buskirk, of 
                        Bloomington
                    ; Second district, A. C. Downey, of 
                        Ohio county
                    ; Third district, John Pettit, of 
                        Tippecanoe county
                    ; Fourth district, James L. Worden, of 
                        Allen county
                    .
            
            The platform adopted by the Convention declared in favor of war against political
                    corruption and advocated investigations as a good means of uprooting the
                    trouble. It also laid heavy stress on the need of economy in public matters and
                    decried the wasteful extravagance of the Republican administration then in
                    power. It also advocated a gold and silver monetary basis as the ultimate goal
                    in view and declared for the gradual retirement of bank notes and the
                    substitution of Government paper in their stead. No more bank notes were to be
                    issued and those in circulation finally extinguished. It demanded the speedy and
                    unconditional repeal of the Resumption Act, the increase in prosperity and
                    wealth to determine the time of resumption. They seemed to hesitate in demanding
                    a "soft money" basis or non-resumption, though they feign
                    would have had it so, but would rather accomplish the same results by keeping it
                    eternally as a future rather than a present policy. It declared for State
                    support of the common schools and for a licensing of the liquor traffic; for
                    providing for the soldier and his dependents; it declared against juries for
                    Federal courts in civil cases; for prohibiting 
                        United States
                     officials from contributing to campaign funds; against the payment
                    of the Confederate debt; and for local improvements at National expense. It
                    ended by endorsing Thomas A. Hendricks as a candidate for the Presidential
                    nomination and instructing the delegates to the Democratic National Convention
                    accordingly.
            The Independent Greenback party held its convention in the Academy of Music at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on February 16, 1876. Only about half the counties were represented
                    and there was a conspicuous lack of leading men. The Hon. Anson Wolcott, of 
                        White county
                    , was elected permanent chairman. He made a short address before the
                    convention, in which he declared for greenbacks as a desirable circulating
                    medium because they would not leave the country.
            Hugh Marlin, of 
                        Monroe county
                    , introduced a resolution against nominating any one for any office
                    on the ticket who would not entirely cut loose from both of the old parties. He
                    was called out of order by A. Johnson, of 
                        Montgomery county
                    , and his motion failed. He yielded, however, with a determination
                    to be heard again later on, and on the same subject.
            In their platform they declared for the unconditional repeal of the Resumption
                    Act, for the undiminished maintenance of the school fund, for the refunding of
                    the National debt at 3.65%, for the  reservation of the public domain for homeseekers,
                    except 160 acres apiece to the soldiers, and for a strict policy of public
                    economy.
            The convention then proceeded to the nomination of the following candidates: For
                    Governor, Franklin Landers; for Lieutenant-Governor, Anson Wolcott, of 
                        White county
                    ; for Secretary of State, Leroy Templeton, of 
                        Benton county
                    ; for Auditor of State, Morris N. Bundy, of 
                        Henry county
                    ; for Attorney-General, W. A. Tipton, of 
                        Fountain county
                    ; for Superintendent of Public Instruction, Rev. R. S. Blount, of 
                        Greene county
                    ; for Clerk of the Supreme Court, W. W. Conner, of 
                        Hamilton county
                    ; for Supreme Court Judges—First district, William F.
                    Parrott, of 
                        Vanderburg county
                    ; Second district, H. C. Newcomb, of 
                        Marion county
                    ; Third district, John D. Haines, of 
                        Dearborn county
                    ; Fourth district, R. Lindsay, of 
                        Howard county
                    .
            On the mention of the name of Col. B. C. Shaw for Treasurer of State Mr. Marlin,
                    of 
                        Monroe county
                    , rose again to his feet. He came out in thundering tones against
                    the nomination of any man who was not free from the old parties, men who were
                    willing to return to slavery for the flesh-pots and manna, or to fall down and
                    worship the golden calf. Just how much influence Mr. Marlin had cannot be
                    determined, but Mr. Shaw was not the nominee.
            When Alex. M. Gow, of 
                        Vanderburg county
                    , was nominated for Superintendent of Public Instruction as a
                    representative of educational thought and progress, one Mr. Geisendorf objected
                    strenuously to him upon the ground that what the children needed was to be
                    taught the greenback theory of money and not educational thought or progress.
            On February 24, 1876, a convention was called in 
                        Indianapolis
                     with a view of forming a "Workingmen's
                    Party." It was largely attended, but the representation was not
                    general. After the election of officers they proceeded first to a declaration of
                    the conditions that made the organization of a workingmen's party
                    necessary. They declared6 that there was legislation
                    favoring the classes and oppressing the workingman and that the workingman was
                    not really represented in Congress, or the State Legislature at all and that
                    relief by either the Democrats or Republicans was hopeless. They demanded
                    representation from their own ranks and advocated personal aggressiveness in
                    obtaining it.
            They then proceeded with a declaration of principles, declaring that it was the
                    duty of every man to be active in politics and that 
                  
                     8
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, February 25, 1876.
               
                     the Government should work to secure the
                    greatest good for the greatest number of its citizens. It was their expressed
                    opinion that the working classes were the corner stones upon which the
                    superstructure of society and government rested, that they should receive
                    attention commensurate with their importance, and that these things could not be
                    until all classes of industrial workers were represented in all legislative
                    bodies by men of their own ranks. It was also their opinion that capital gained
                    for the capitalist certain vantage-points against which the workingman was
                    helpless to compete and against which he had no protection. They, therefore,
                    advocated that the laborer should be legally secured against the invasions of
                    capital, or in other words, they demanded discrimination in favor of workingmen.
                    This, at that time, was generally regarded as fanatical, and was counter to our
                    old notion of equal rights for all and special privileges for none. Yet it is a
                    principle now endorsed by both the Democrat and Republican progressives and also
                    endorsed in Mr. Croly's book, The Promise of American
                        Life. They also declared that all property, including Government
                    securities, and all incomes above $1,200 should be taxed, the rate to
                    increase with the increase of the income. They declared wages should be secured
                    by first lien on what it produces, that the entire property of bankers should
                    secure all deposits. They declared for the withdrawal of bank notes and the
                    substitution of greenbacks and the ultimate resumption of specie payment. The
                    State and National debt should be refunded at a maximum interest of
                    3% and officials should be paid on a basis of services rendered and
                    not a flat salary. The Vagabond Law was vigorously assailed and denounced and
                    the subsidizing of railroads by land grants was bitterly denounced, together
                    with the Credit Mobilier. They ended up by denouncing the practice of the Spoils
                    System and declaring in favor of woman suffrage. The convention adjourned before
                    completing the organization of the new party and the enthusiasm waned until the
                    work was never finished. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, March 13, 1876, declared that the agitation among the
                    workingmen was incited and led by pretenders who were not of the ranks of the
                    workingmen at all, but were agitating them for personal reasons. There was
                    likely some truth in the statement.
            There was no other meeting until April 12, when one was called at the Statehouse.
                    It was addressed by Enos B. Reed and William Dreythaler. The spirit and
                    enthusiasm had perceptibly cooled since  the
                    meeting of February 24 and it was clear that nothing decisive would be
                    undertaken.
            The Socialists were not a very great deal in evidence nor yet were they wholly
                        missing.7 May 2, 1876, Peter J. McGuire, of
                            
                  New Haven, Conn.
               , addressed a Socialist
                    meeting in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He spoke against the wrongs of the workingman, of which low wages
                    was the chief, and especially about the concentration of wealth in the hands of
                    Thomas Scott and William Orton. Every wrong which the workingmen were suffering
                    was due, in his estimation, to deliberate planning toward criminal ends by the
                    officers of the State. Of course he did not neglect their cardinal doctrine of
                    common ownership.
            As has been said, the campaign proper was opened May 10 with the Republicans on
                    the defensive side. It was plain from the first that the issues of the campaign
                    were all going to be included in the one word "reform." The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, September 4, contained the following in bold
                    headlines: "Reform, the Issue of the Day. Grant,
                    Morton, Hayes, corruption, crime, outrage and the bloody shirt; Tilden,
                    Hendricks, reform, honesty, patriotism, and pure government." Then
                    followed a speech of the Hon. Joseph Pulitzer, delivered at Mozart Hall, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , on the previous evening. It was from beginning to end a
                    condemnation of the corruption of the Grant administration and a justification
                    of the Democratic demands. It was typical both in spirit and subject-matter of
                    the average Democratic speech throughout the campaign. On October 12, following
                    the announcement of the results of the State election, the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel came out with the following: "Reform and
                    reconciliation the keynote of Indiana's greeting to the sisterhood of
                    States. A rebuke to Sitting Bull (Morton) and his satellites. The radical ring
                    repudiated and reform guaranteed." The three lines of reform most
                    agitated were reform against corruption in office, reform in attitude toward and
                    treatment of the South, and reform in regard to money standards. Of the latter
                    considerable has already been said in connection with the platform adopted by
                    the Democratic State Convention. Very briefly stated, they stood for the
                    immediate repeal of the Resumption Act, the retirement of bank notes, the
                    fostering of greenbacks and in a very weak, half-hearted, and indefinite manner
                    they stood for the ultimate resumption of specie payment. The strong note in the
                    money issue was postponement of resumption. In their demands relative 
                  
                     7
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Sentinel, May 2, 1876.
               
                     to the South they demanded the speedy
                    withdrawal of all 
                        United States
                     forces from Southern soil and the leaving- of local government of
                    the South in the hands of the South, and also advocated an active policy of
                    reconciliation of the South by conceding them all rights not inimical to the
                    fruits of victory of the Northern arms. Of the issue of reform against
                    corruption in office they had more to say than of any other and it was the
                    hardest for the Republicans to fight. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, April 14, replied as follows to this cry of
                    corruption in office: "Nothing is at once more illogical and false and
                    wicked than the current wholesale denunciations of the Republican party as a
                    mass of infamy and corruption, and the men who deliberately write these things
                    are wilful falsifiers who hope by groundless accusations against the dominant
                    party to overthrow it. The Republican party, as to its constituency, embraces
                    almost the entire mass of the Protestant clergy in the northern part of the 
                        United States
                     and every man knows that as men they are among our most intelligent
                    and high-principled citizens. A very large proportion of the men who constitute
                    the rank and file of what is known as the Protestant Christian element of
                    society; an immense majority of the educators; by far the largest part of those
                    who support and manage our public and private charities belong to the same
                    party. Some dozen, more or less, Government officers have been detected by the
                    Government itself in fraudulent dealing and have been imprisoned or otherwise
                    punished and this is all, absolutely all. But upon this foundation an
                    unscrupulous Democratic press proceeds to erect accusations as broad as the
                    Republican party and as high as Heaven and demands that an outraged people shall
                    rise in wrath and hurl this limitless mass of infamy to the ground. The
                    Republican party has hunted down and punished its own offenders. It inaugurated
                    that war against corruptionists. If it has the odium of corruption upon a few
                    men in its ranks, it has the honor of universal denunciation of it and of having
                    done its utmost to purge itself of the taint. As a whole, the Republican party
                    is the only untainted party. The other smells of treason, rebellion and
                    secession."
            The tactics resorted to were much the same as those in vogue in the State today,
                    with the addition of the torchlight processions and more extensive use of
                    scandalous and slanderous abuse of the political opponents both in the
                    newspapers and in the public address. People seemed to take politics vastly more
                    seriously then than they do at present. I have the word of older men to the
                    effect that fist and skull fights were often the result of political differences
                    and  that neighbors would often refuse to
                    recognize neighbors because of differences in political views. The general
                    spirit was one of bitterness directed more by prejudice and passion than by
                    intellect. The common inclination was to consider the opponent not only in the
                    wrong, but wilfully so, because he desired to bring disaster upon his fellow men
                    and upon his country. Of course there were many intelligent people, but they
                    were usually the ones least heard from; so being governed by what was spoken and
                    written, the spirit described above was the prevailing one ’.
            Mr. Orth, the Republican candidate for Governor, returned from Vienna to conduct
                    his own campaign. He was given a rousing reception on his return, May 26, and
                    after spending a few days getting a line on the situation he opened his campaign
                    with an address at 
                        Greencastle
                    , July 8. It was typical of the addresses in general. He first
                    reviewed the records of the Republicans, painting them a little lower than the
                    angels, and then the record of the Democrats (chiefly their war record) and
                    showed them up only a little higher than the demons. He then dealt with their
                    loud howl for reform, stating that it was the Democrats and not the Republicans
                    that had brought on the disorder and lawlessness and that it was the Republicans
                    who had brought to light and punished the offenders. He took up the causes of
                    the panic and again turned the blame on the Democrats; he defended the financial
                    policy of the Republicans, advocating the earliest possible resumption of specie
                    payment; depicted the mission of the Republican party and considered the
                    exceptional fitness of the Republican candidates for carrying out that mission,
                    ending up with the only logical conclusion (granting the premises) that every
                    loyal American citizen should vote the Republican ticket.
            The Republican National Convention met at 
                        Cincinnati
                     the middle of June and here again results hinged on Indiana. After
                    losing hope of placing Oliver P. Morton in nomination it was the swinging of the
                    Indiana delegation to Governor Hayes, of 
                        Ohio
                    , that placed him in nomination on the seventh ballot. The platform
                    adopted by the Convention was very displeasing to the Democrats of Indiana. It
                    was too indefinite on the points opposed most strongly by the Democrats. In the
                    first place the Democrats insisted that the Republicans had stolen much of their
                    (Democrats) thunder and that they (Republicans) were half-hearted in advocating
                    their own doctrine. For example, the Republican platform and the platform
                    adopted later by the Democratic convention at 
                        St. Louis
                     were alike  in that both
                    advocated pacification of the South; both denounced corruption in office; both
                    were against higher education at State expense; both denounced further land
                    grants to corporations; and both advocated restriction of Mongolian immigration
                    to the 
                        United States
                    . Besides these points that were practically identical in the two
                    platforms the Republican plank on resumption of specie payment was very
                    indefinite. So far as the wording was concerned it was impossible to tell
                    whether they meant to stand by the Resumption Act or whether they meant to cater
                    to the western Republican idea on the subject. There was really no very striking
                    difference between the two platforms. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, February 24, declared that the Republican State
                    platform was a straddling affair designed to draw back the departing party
                    members from the Independent Greenback party. This same thing was true of the
                    National Republican platform with the added tendency to straddle on the currency
                    question so as to please both the eastern and the western Republicans.
            The nomination by the Democrats at 
                        St. Louis
                     of Samuel J. Tilden for President was a victory for the eastern
                    Democrats, who stood definitely in favor of resumption, and lessened, still
                    further, the difference between the Republicans and Democrats on the currency
                    question. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, June 29, following the announcement of the results
                    at the 
                        St. Louis
                     Convention, said: "The die is cast; it is a hard-money
                    victory all around. Tilden nominated on the second ballot. Square hard-money
                    platform. Attempt to force the second place on Hendricks." It is
                    putting the truth mildly to say that the Democrats of Indiana were disappointed
                    by the nomination of Tilden and in a time when party ties were less strong and
                    party success less desirable, it might easily have caused a split in the
                    Democratic party. In a meeting of the Democrats of the Ninth district, held at 
                        Frankfort
                    , July n, there was manifest a strong spirit of discontent at the
                    work of the 
                        St. Louis
                     Convention. They repudiated the financial plank of the platform and
                    declared for greenbacks. There was a strong attempt to nominate Leroy Templeton,
                    an avowed independent Greenbacker, for Congress. This failed, however, and
                    George McWilliams, a loyal Democrat of 
                        Fountain county
                    , was nominated on the fourth ballot.
            After a short and vigorous canvass Mr. Orth tendered his resignation as candidate
                    for Governor, on August 2, and the same day there was a call for a meeting of
                    the State Central Committee to meet in 
                        Indianapolis
                     to consider the resignation. Mr. Orth gave as  his reasons for resigning that he was not receiving
                    the united support of the Republican party. An editorial in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, August 3, 1876, stated that the dissatisfaction was
                    due to his alleged relations to the Venezuelian claims, a position in which it
                    asserted that he was able to show himself innocent.
            On August 4 General Benjamin Harrison was chosen to take the place of Mr. Orth
                    and the campaign went on with comparatively little interruption. General
                    Harrison opened his campaign with a speech at 
                        Danville
                     August 18. He was a more polished gentleman than the average
                    politician of this campaign and his speeches are more tempered and freer from
                    scathing criticisms. In spite of all this his speeches sound rather strong in
                    tone today. In his 
                        Danville
                     speech he declared that the Democratic party had merited death by
                    their relation to the Rebellion. He denounced Tilden as a secessionist and
                    criticised his conduct in the 
                        Chicago
                     meeting in demanding a cessation of hostilities. He accused Tilden
                    of being in concerted action with Boss Tweed and of being responsible for the
                    Credit Mobilier. He ended by an earnest appeal for concerted action. From this
                    time on to the end of the campaign Mr. Harrison was very active, working to the
                    limit of his strength.
            The campaign was very aggressive on all sides. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, August 8, contained a schedule of over five hundred
                    speeches to be delivered by forty-six different speakers, all to be done within
                    about ten days. As has been said, they relied chiefly on abusing opponents. The
                    following headlines from the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, August 9, are illustrative of this: "Samuel
                    J. Tilden, the career of a notorious sham reformer, colossal fraud of the age, a
                    swindler of railroads, a friend and companion of Boss Tweed, the arch
                    conspirator of 
                        New York
                     politics."
            Senator Morton delivered a typical "bloody shirt" address
                    before a large audience at the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Academy of Music July n. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal commented upon it as follows: "It was a
                    powerful arraignment of the Democratic party and a merciless exposition of the
                        shams and frauds, the follies and the crimes that have marked its
                    history." Such was the general nature of the public addresses and the
                    printed attacks of the campaign. Between the Journal and the
                        Sentinel it was tit for tat. They seemed about equally
                    adept in the use of scathing English and in power of concocting slanderous
                    stories, the one against the other.
            After Harrison became the candidate for Governor there was a strong endeavor to
                    revive the spirit of the campaign of 1840. There  was a monster Republican meeting at Battle Ground,
                    September 26, and the program was planned to revive the scenes of the former
                    Harrison campaign. The plan was practically a failure, for it was a plain fact
                    that the grandson of the log-cabin candidate was not a representative of
                    log-cabin life. The Harrisons, it was charged, had moved over to the
                    aristocratic side and the log-cabin standards were now being borne by the
                    Democrats. The triumph in the State election was a-triumph of the same western
                    Democratic ideals that triumphed in 1840. As the campaign drew to its close the
                    Democrats became more confident of victory and it is probable that the
                    Republicans became more fearful than they were willing to admit. Harrison closed
                    his campaign with a speech at 
                        Lebanon
                     October 9.
            The leading issue of the Greenbackers was their policy of bonds interconvertible
                    into greenbacks or vice versa, their policy of greenbacks interconvertible into
                    interest-bearing bonds. That is to say if a man had more greenbacks than he
                    could invest to a good advantage, he could, on his own demand, exchange them for
                    their face value in interest-bearing bonds and all such bonds were likewise
                    convertible on demand at par into greenbacks. It was perhaps the best cheap
                    money scheme ever devised. It won the respect of many people, both of the
                    Democratic and Republican parties, and among these was State Senator Newton
                    Booth, of 
                        Terre Haute
                    .
            The Greenback meetings were generally well attended and marked by strong and
                    genuine enthusiasm. Their showing in the election was certainly not
                    representative of their real power. Many that sympathized with them certainly
                    voted with one or the other of the old parties through fear of losing their
                    votes if they cast them with the Greenbackers.
            The State election came on October 10 and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, October 12, contained the following:
                    "Results leave the Republicans abundant room for rejoicing. Vote on
                    Governor is close and victory claimed by both sides." The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel of the same date said: "William walks over
                    the political grave of the grandson. Blue Jeans vs. Kid Gloves. The State ticket
                    elected. The fates decree it and the fated admit it." October 13 the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal said: "Official returns from eighty-four
                    counties. The Democratic ticket elected by about 4,000 majority. They won by
                    fraud."
            
            The final results showed the following composition for the Legislature: 
                  
                     Republican Senators holding over
                     8
                  
                  
                     Republican Senators elected
                     15
                  
                  
                     Total
                     23
                  
                  
                     Democratic Senators holding over
                     14
                  
                  
                     Democratic Senators elected
                     11
                  
                  
                     Total
                     25
                  
                  
                     Republican Representatives
                     53
                  
                  
                     Democratic Representatives
                     44
                  
                  
                     Independent Senators
                     2
                  
                  
                     Independent Representatives
                     2
                  
                  
                     Total Republican vote on joint ballot
                     76
                  
                  
                     Total Democratic and Independent vote on joint ballot
                     73
                  
                  
                     Joint Republican majority
                     3
                  
               
            
            After the State election the campaign dragged on to November. The Republicans
                    still talked of victory for Hayes, but it was certainly in a rather half-hearted
                    manner. Harrison, following his defeat, went ahead in the National campaign and
                    won Nation-wide recognition. His oratorical powers, together with his moderation
                    and clear thinking, won him high National esteem and paved the way toward what
                    happened-in 1888.
            The National election came on November 7 and the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, November 8, conceded the election of Tilden. The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel of the same date contained the following:
                    "At last after many years of gloom there is the dawn of a better day.
                    Reform and reconciliation guaranteed to a long distracted country by the
                    election of Tilden and Hendricks. The day of redemption. 
                        New York
                    
                    Tribune, Sun, Herald and World all concede
                    the election. The man of destiny will now proceed to administer upon the estate
                    of defunct radicalism. The solid South, 
                  New York, New
                        Jersey
               , Indiana and 
                        Connecticut
                     settle the case." An editorial of the same issue came out
                    in tones of emotion as follows: "Never since the morning stars sang
                    together and the sons of God shouted for joy has there been an occasion which
                    called forth grander rejoicings. The triumph of yesterday was sublime. Forty
                    millions of people by their silent potentiality of the ballot triumphed.
                    Man's capacity for self-government was vindicated—Grantism
                    is crushed —a mighty people are free—a united country is
                    assured. No more  bayonet rule. No more
                    thieves in office. No more bribe-taking in the White House. No more impeachments
                    of cabinet officers. A new era dawns upon the country. The night of oppression
                    is gone forever. Henceforth fraternity. The country from rock-ribbed 
                        New England
                     to where the 
                        Oregon
                     pours its mighty flood, from the lakes to the sunny South is one,
                    united, one flag, and one destiny. Wars and rumors of wars shall cease and all
                    sections of our mighty empire shall vie with each other in carrying forward the
                    conquests of good government. … If the angels rejoice over one sinner
                    that repenteth, all heaven will be jubilant over a mighty people redeemed from
                    the grasp of oppressors and thieves. …" In answer to all
                    this the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal remarked the following day that the Democratic rooster
                    had thrown up a "premature dish of Tilden and Hendricks
                    hog-wash."
            Indiana had plainly declared for the Democrats, and it was evident that before
                    the Republican party could hope to again win the electoral votes of that State
                    it must change its policy toward the South, and show itself earnestly in favor
                    of civil service reform and of clean men for civil officials.
         
         
         
            REUBEN GOLD THWAITES
            By JAMES A. WOODBURN
            
            SINCE the last issue of this MAGAZINE the field of Western history has lost one
                    of its most efficient workers and most distinguished ornaments. All who are
                    interested in the history of the Middle West will appreciate the loss that has
                    come to historical scholarship in this part of the world by the death of Reuben
                    Gold Thwaites, who died at his home in 
                  Madison, Wisconsin
               , on October 22, 1913. Dr. Thwaites was just past
                    sixty. He was of sturdy English stock and was born in Dorchester, 
                        Massachusetts
                    , on May 15, 1853. He was educated in the common schools, his only
                    advanced education coming from a course of severe self-training while he was
                    working on a farm. Here he had his only college work. At twenty-one he was
                    admitted for a year of graduate study to Yale University (i874-75). He went to 
                        Wisconsin
                    , became a newspaper man, and for ten 3-ears he worked as a
                    practical printer, reporter, and city editor. He had a fine scent for news and a
                    knack for telling a good story, and he had the faculty for seeing more than the
                    passing significance in what he found. He had the natural sense of the
                    historical detective and investigator.
            After serving his apprenticeship at hard work and in minor places, young Thwaites
                    became editor of the 
                        Wisconsin
                    
                    State Journal at 
                        Madison
                    , one of the leading and influential newspapers of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and while in this position he was appointed, in 1886, to succeed
                    Dr. Lynam Draper as secretary and librarian of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Historical Society. He thus became the custodian and the editor of
                    important 
                        Wisconsin
                     historical collections, and here he found the place and the work
                    for which his taste and his natural bent seem to have designed him, as it was in
                    this field he entered upon his distinguished career.
            He became a great historical collector, and by indefatigable industry in going
                    after material into all parts of 
                        Wisconsin
                     and into neighboring States, and by seeking the cooperation of the
                    county newspapers and other agencies in the State, he added greatly to the
                    Draper Collection and made the library collection of the 
                        Wisconsin
                    
                     Historical Society one of the most famous
                    in the country. He had been a member of the Council of the American Historical
                    Association and at the time of his death he had the honor of being the President
                    of the Mississippi Valley Historical Society.
            He became a great librarian. He appreciated the value and the orderly keeping of
                    books. He became president of the American Librarian Association, 1900, his
                    merits being early recognized by Dr. Winsor, librarian of 
                        Harvard
                    , and Dr. Poole, of the Newberry Library, of 
                        Chicago
                    . He made manuscripts, documents, and rare materials available to
                    the scholar and the investigator, and by his inspiration of the work of others
                    he may be said to have been the founder of a school of scientific and devoted
                    library workers.
            He became a distinguished historical author. The books are numerous that came
                    from his industrious pen. His Colonies, 1492-1750 is still
                    used in college and high school classes. He wrote The Story of 
                            Wisconsin
                        
                for the American Commonwealth Series; France
                        in America for the American Nation series; Down Historic
                        Waterways, Chronicles of Border Warfare, Documentary History of
                        Dunmore's War, Hennepin's New Discovery, Life of Father
                        Marquette and the Life of Daniel Boone, and numerous
                    monographs on the History of New France in the Middle West.
                    Many of these were written in collaboration with Dr. Louise Kellogg, Dr.
                    Thwaites ’ efficient and faithful assistant in the 
                        Wisconsin
                     Historical Society. One wonders, in view of his other work, how he
                    managed to do so much in authorship and to do it so well. He showed that he was
                    a well trained historical author and he wrote with a racy and vivid style that
                    gripped the attention of his readers.
            But, above all, Dr. Thwaites was a great editor. Herein was his greatest work for
                    the history of the West. He edited the Original Journals of Lewis
                        and Clark in eight volumes; Early Western Travels in
                    thirty-three volumes, and the monumental work of The Jesuit
                        Relations in seventy-three volumes, and by these enduring memorials of
                    his pains and toil he has made every student of Western history his everlasting
                    debtor. All this work he did with painstaking care, showing the detailed
                    accuracy of the proof-reader which came to him from his long training as a
                    newspaper man, and the diligence and historic sense of the compiler of footnotes
                    and master of cross references; and those who know what
                    "footnotes" and "cross references" mean in
                    value to the student and in labor to the producer will best appreciate Dr.
                    Thwaites ’ eminent services to historical learning in America by the
                    production of these large and valuable 
                    editions. It is only by such painstaking labors and collections that the written
                    history of a country is made possible. Professor Morse Stephens has very
                    pertinently said: "No such output has ever been made before by any
                    American historical scholar, and yet the quality is equal to the quantity of his
                    work."
            Dr. Thwaites received but little training from the schools; but he had a keen
                    mind and a talent for industry, and his work showed such qualities of the
                    scholar that the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                     very properly conferred upon him at its Semi-centennial Jubilee
                    Celebration in 1913 the high honorary degree of Doctor of Laws (LL.D.). Though
                    Dr. Thwaites never held a college or university professorship, it has been very
                    properly said of him that he "did more to aid historical scholarship in
                    America than any American professor of history." It is quite likely
                    that had he been a university professor he would never have found time for much
                    of his valuable and highly important labors. Happy is the State that can find
                    and sustain such a man for such a work! Many other men have helped, but the work
                    of Reuben Gold Thwaites has been an important factor in placing 
                        Wisconsin
                     in the vanguard of American commonwealths.
            Next to Parkman, Thwaites will take rank, along with Professor Turner, among the
                    eminent historians of the West. Where Park-man was the pioneer, Thwaites was the
                    follower, the settler, and the cultivator, and to him is due more than to any
                    other of our contemporaries the revelation of the life and history of the Old
                    Northwest. He added richly to our materials, bringing the searcher into the use
                    of sources which Parkman never saw, and his many-sided work will assure to Dr.
                    Thwaites a lasting fame among American historians.
            The writer of this sketch cannot forego a personal word. He has had the privilege
                    of knowing Dr. Thwaites both in his home and at his work in his sanctum; and at,
                    perhaps, a score of the annual gatherings of the American Historical Association
                    he has had the pleasure of listening to the genial conversation and engaging
                    stories in which Thwaites was the center, the leader, the past-master. All
                    recognized in him one of the finest of spirits and the most lovable of men. In
                    attractive personality, in friendly, cheerful, genial comradeship, Thwaites was
                    unexcelled. The historical tribesmen as they gathered round their council fires
                    in their annual conclaves, always looked to him, and never in vain, for
                    entertainment, good cheer, and good fellowship. He was the prince of good  fellows. So his death is counted not only
                    as a loss to letters and to history, but as a personal sorrow and bereavement to
                    a host of friends. He has achieved a worthy renown, and those who knew him in
                    life will feel the greater assurance of the honor that will be his in future
                    time as an historical workman worthy of his high calling.
         
         
         
            REVIEWS AND NOTES
            
               The Granger Movement. By SOLON JUSTUS BUCK, PH.D.,
                    Research Associate in History in the University of 
                        Illinois
                    . [
                        Harvard
                     Historical Studies, Vol. XIX.] (
                  Cambridge: Harvard
                University Press, 1913. Pp. xi, 384.)
            THIS volume was submitted by the author and accepted by the faculty of 
                        Harvard
                     University as a doctor's thesis. The author at the time
                    was holding the Parkman Fellowship in history. An examination of the valuable
                    bibliography and footnote references shows that the writer has had exceptional
                    opportunities in the way of materials. The volume is built up entirely from the
                    sources, though the work of previous investigators has not been overlooked. At
                    this time, when industrial regulation by government is the question of the day,
                    the publication of a history of this first attempt to curb the power of
                    railroads is timely. With most people the very fact that any movement was
                    tainted by some, no matter how remote, connection with the "Granger
                    movement" was enough to condemn it forever. The seeming failure of the
                    movement has hung like a cloud over the whole field of agriculture, and has
                    especially discounted farmers as legislators. As a consequence very few farmers
                    have participated in the work of any law-making body in America during the last
                    quarter of a century.
            The author conducted his investigations in four fields: Organization, Political
                    Activity, Business Cooperation, Social and Educational Features. By far the most
                    valuable parts of the book are the chapters dealing with the attempt to regulate
                    railroads and their allies, the elevators and express companies. The methods of
                    the corporations in opposing the movement are familiar to all of us at present.
                    They first backed the dominant party in the election, controlling nominations
                    and furnishing funds for campaigns. Beaten here they began a systematic campaign
                    in courts and newspapers to misrepresent, misapply, or utterly ignore the
                    restrictive laws. The struggle became more animated as the farmers kept up the
                    attack. The railroads at last took refuge in their inner circle of
                    intrench-ments, the Supreme Court and the Constitution. By the time they were
                    routed from this stronghold in 1876 the farmers had generally become tired of
                    the struggle and the railroad lobbies had a strangle  hold on the State legislatures. It is an
                    interesting story, full of the flavor of strife, and throws a flood of light on
                    the conduct of such social and class struggles.
            The other important feature of this movement was an attempt by the farmers to
                    throw off the yoke of the middleman and break the power of the monopolies. The
                    fact that they brought the price of reapers down from $240 to
                    $140 is evidence that there was reason for the movement. Not only in
                    buying, but in selling, the farmers sought to rid themselves of commission men.
                    The farmers of 
                        California
                     claimed to have saved $5,000,000 in 1873-4 by selling
                    their own wheat abroad. Various plans were tried out but lack of organization
                    and efficient cooperation usually brought the ventures to the wall.
            It is to be regretted, through no fault of the author perhaps, that nothing is
                    said about the struggle in Indiana. According to the statistics given, this
                    State was among the leaders in the movement, numbering over 2,000 lodges of the
                    Patrons of Husbandry, more than twenty to the county, or one lodge for each 150
                    men, women and children of the farming population. There are many records
                    available of this movement in Indiana and many prominent leaders are still
                    alive. It is to be hoped some student will supply the testimony for our State.
            It remains to be said that Dr. Buck has performed a very valuable piece of
                    investigation. Nothing conduces more to the correct and charitable solution of
                    such questions as are now agitating the people than a reading of such books as
                    the one under review. Some of the lasting effects of the "Granger
                    movement" may be seen in the large mail-order houses—
                        Montgomery
                    , Ward & Co. was originally a Granger cooperative
                    concern—the disappearance of the old credit system, which held the
                    farmer almost a slave to the merchant, the railroad rate regulation, the
                    technical education of the farmers. The Grangers were not the only factors of
                    course in these reformations, but they took a prominent part.
            LOGAN ESAREY.
         
         
            
               Financial History of 
                            Ohio
                        . By ERNEST LUDLOW
                        BOGART, Associate Professor of Economics, University of 
                        Illinois
                    . [University of 
                        Illinois
                     Studies in the Social Sciences, Vol. I, Nos. 1 and 2.] (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                    , 1912. Pp. 358.)
            During recent years much interest has been manifest in the study of the finances
                    of American commonwealths. Various monographs  have been published which trace the evolution of expenditure, revenue and
                    financial administration, in typical States. Not only are such studies of value
                    to students of finance, but they also are of service to tax administrators and
                    legislators in pointing out the errors of the past and indicating the general
                    lines for advance in the future. What other writers have done in this way for
                    such States as 
                  Maryland,
                            Massachusetts, New Hampshire, Connecticut, Vermont
                and 
                        New York
                    , Professor Bogart has done for 
                        Ohio
                    .
            The present work is divided into two main sections. Under Part I,
                    "Financial Legislation and Administration," the author
                    considers the economic history of 
                        Ohio
                    , the growth of receipts and expenditures, financial administration
                    and budgetary practice. Part II, "The History of Taxation in 
                        Ohio
                    ," deals with the general property tax, the taxation of
                    bonds and railroads, business and miscellaneous taxes. There is also a short
                    introduction dealing with territorial history and finance. Treatment of internal
                    improvements and local finance is crowded out by reason of the limitations of
                    space, while discussion of the State debt is also omitted owing to the fact that
                    the author has published its history in another connection.
            The chapters on financial administration and the budget are a recital of constant
                    waste, fraud and inefficiency in the taxing system of 
                        Ohio
                     during the first half-century of State life. Laxity in assessment
                    was followed by juggling of funds and uncertainty in the methods of accounting
                    officers. In bringing order out of this chaos, one of the greatest and most
                    necessary reforms was secured.
            The chapter dealing with the general property tax is clearly another indictment
                    of that institution. Early special taxes gave way to a tax of uniform rate on
                    property of all kinds. Later on, when corporate interests had largely developed,
                    this tax proved inadequate. As a result, certain forms of property and business,
                    such as banks, railroads, public utilities and insurance companies, were split
                    off and taxed at varying rates. Throughout its history the general property tax
                    in 
                        Ohio
                     has operated with unequal distribution of burden through chronic
                    under assessment and through the evasion of intangible personalty. Even the
                    celebrated tax inquisitor law failed to reach the latter kind of property. Just
                    as in the case of Indiana constitutional provisions prevent taxing intangible
                    personalty at a lower rate as is done by several leading Eastern States. It may
                    be noted, also, that the recent constitutional convention to which Professor
                    Bogart looked for relief in this connection, failed to effect any change.
            
            The chief criticism to be directed against the monograph is that the author has
                    devoted too much attention to general economics and social history. It is, of
                    course, helpful to the student to outline the banking and railroad history of
                    the State in explanation of the tax policies relating to these branches of
                    business. It is difficult, however, to see the connection between taxation and
                    such topics as immigration, slavery, the abolition of public executions and
                    imprisonment for debt, and the growth of general culture. The monograph would
                    still be satisfactory as a treatment of the finances of 
                        Ohio
                     with a more sparing treatment of such matter as goes to make it an
                    overbalanced "economic history of 
                        Ohio
                    ." Considerable reduplication is also involved owing to the
                    treatment of tax history first in a horizontal fashion, and second, in a
                    cross-sectional or vertical style.
            However, with the exception of the omitted subjects noted above, the author has
                    treated the financial history of his State in a thorough-going manner. For a tax
                    history, it is also unusually readable. It is greatly to be regretted that a
                    similar piece of work has not been done for Indiana.
            In conclusion, it may be of interest to note that from 1898 to 1900 the author
                    was Acting Professor of Economics at Indiana University.
            FRANK T. STOCKTON.
         
         
            "One Hundred Years Ago—The Battle of the Thames" is
                    the leading article in the September number of The Register of the 
                            Kentucky State
                         Historical Society. A. C. Quisenberry, the author, has
                    given a detailed account of the expedition as shown by the official records. The
                    parts taken by Colonel R. M. Johnson, then a member of Congress, and Governor
                    Isaac Shelby are especially dwelt upon. October 5, 1813, was a glorious day for
                    Kentuckians, and they may well take pride in celebrating its centennial
                    anniversary. Before that day they had suffered about all the humiliation that
                    could come from military defeat and Indian barbarity, the massacre on the Raisin
                    adding the last to their well-filled cup of sufferings. Full-page steel
                    engravings of Governor Shelby, Colonel Johnson and Tecum-seh add to the
                    attractiveness of the article.
            A letter by Governor Isaac Shelby to Judge Thomas Todd, asking advice concerning
                    the acceptance of an appointment as commissioner to treat with the Indians while
                    holding the office of Governor, and a letter by Andrew Jackson to the National
                    Institute declining a sarcophagus offered by the Institute are interesting
                    documents in the same number of the Register. The answer of
                    Judge Todd is  interesting to us since our
                    first Governor precipitated a State-wide quarrel by doing just what Judge Todd
                    said he had no legal right to do.
            FRED ROHRER, editor and owner of the Berne
                        Witness, is the author and publisher of a volume of 146
                    pages just off the press giving the details of his ten years ’ war
                    with the saloons of his town. The liquor men were well intrenched, having a
                    saloon for each 100 inhabitants. From the story it seems that in 1886, when the
                    war was declared, everybody drank and many of the inhabitants were what might be
                    called drunkards. The actual hostilities began in 1902 and lasted till 1906,
                    when the saloons acknowledged their defeat. The fight cost the good citizens
                    $10,500, Rohrer's house was dynamited, he himself was beaten
                    up four times and driven from town several times, on one of which occasions he
                    was housed in the county jail at 
                        Decatur
                    . The book is a genuine epic in style and movement. It is notable
                    also that Mr. Rohrer prospered during the fight, the circulation of the Witness increasing rapidly.
            THE
                    Iozva Journal of History and Politics for July contains an
                    interesting summary of the lives of Gurdon Saltonstall Hubbard, an Indian fur
                    trader, and Gershon Flagg, a pioneer farmer of the 
                        Illinois
                     prairie. Professor Louis Pelzer, of the State University of 
                        Iowa
                    , author of the article, calls it "History Made by Plain
                    Men." Jacob Van der Zee, of the 
                        Iowa State
                     Historical Society, contributes a forty-page article on
                    "Early History of Western 
                        Iowa
                    ." Clifford Powell in a seventy-eight-page article
                    concludes his "History of the Codes of 
                        Iowa
                     Law." In these articles, the concluding one is the fifth
                    of the series, the writer sets forth the demand for and the leading principles
                    and characteristics of each revision from the "Old Blue Book"
                    down to the "Supplement of 1907."
            THE October American Historical Review
                    contains a timely article by Professor Guy S. Callender, of Yale University, on
                    "American Economic History." The great amount of attention
                    given to industrial problems and conditions has aroused an historical interest
                    in that field. He points out the similarity between this condition and the
                    preceding one when nearly all the attention of government was given to questions
                    of politics. So pronounced was this influence of the government on history that
                    the past and present generations of historians devoted their entire attention to
                    "political" history. As  a
                    result of the emphasis laid in recent years by the government on economic
                    legislation nearly all the monographs now being written deal with some phase of
                    economic history.
            Another interesting article in the same number of the Review is
                    by Professor C. H. Van Tyne, of the University of 
                        Michigan
                    , and discusses "The Clergy and the American
                    Revolution." "After twelve years ’ study of the
                    period," says Professor Van Tyne, "I am not convinced that the
                    economic causes of which so much has been made, are adequate alone to explain
                    the bitterness of the controversy. Among the many causes I rate religious
                    bigotry, sectarian antipathy, and the influence of the Calvinistic clergy as
                    among the most important." The author of this surprising statement is
                    as well prepared as any living historian to speak with authority on the history
                    of the Revolution.
            THE
                    American Economic Review for September, 1913, has a study of
                    "Farm Credit in a Northwestern State" by Meyer Jacobstein, of
                    the University of North Dakota. The author favors "some form of
                    cooperation as a means of lowering the interest rates on borrowed
                    capital." A table shows that the average interest on farm longtime
                    loans is 7.88 per cent.; while the average for short loans is 10.25 Percent- The
                    study further showed that 87 per cent, of the farmers bought their farming
                    implements on credit. The average interest on these notes is 10.26 per cent.
            IN
                    THE
                    American Political Science Review Charles Kettleborough, of
                    the Indiana Legislative Reference Department, explains the purpose and
                    provisions of the new Indiana law for the extermination of rats. The law
                    provides a penalty of from ten to one hundred dollars for maintaining a building
                    infested by rats. The execution of the law is in the hands of the health
                    officers.
            IN the July number of the Journal of the 
                            Illinois State
                         Historical Society Dr. Evarts Boutell Greene outlines the
                    work now being done by the State Historical Library of 
                        Illinois
                    . This body under the laws of 
                        Illinois
                     is substantially a State Department of History. Its first and chief
                    duty as given by Dr. Greene is the collection and preservation of the historical
                    materials of the State. The law establishing the library says: "Besides
                    collecting these books and manuscripts the State Historical Library is also
                    charged with the duty of publishing historical documents. For the present this
                    work is limited  to the publication of
                    original documents rather than historical essays or monographs."
            IN view of the general dissatisfaction with the present means
                    of raising public revenue in Indiana, the article by Professor F. J. Goodnow in
                    the September Political Science Quarterly, entitled
                    "Congressional Regulation of State Taxation" cannot fail to be
                    interesting. In the same number Robert Livingston Schuyler has an interesting
                    discussion of the origin of the public land system, entitled "Working
                    Toward a Federal Domain."
            IN
                    THK
                    Sewanee Review (Sewanee, 
                        Tennessee
                    ) of October, A. R. H. Ranson, of Catonsville, 
                        Maryland
                    , begins his "Reminiscences of the Civil War by a
                    Confederate Staff Officer." The war seems to have left no bitterness on
                    his part—a remark that applies to almost all the Confederate
                    veterans. There is a charm in the style of Mr. Ranson that makes one forget he
                    is reading history.
            THE October number of the 
                  
                            Virginia
                         Magazine of History and Biography contains the
                    appraisement of the Estate of Philip Lud-well." As a glimpse of the
                    plantation life of the time—he died in 1767—it has great
                    historical interest. The Ludwell plantations lay along the north bank of the
                        James river near 
                        Jamestown
                    . There were 236 slaves listed in the appraisement. The prices
                    varied from £70 for first-class men and women down to £1 for old "mammies." The aggregate value
                    of the slaves was over £10,000,—far more than that of any
                    other single heading. There were 50 head of draught steers, a large number of
                    "stock cattle" and hogs; 110,000 pounds of tobacco, large
                    quantities of wine and cider; several hundred bushels of wheat, and 23 reap
                    hooks with which it had been harvested. Altogether the schedule gives one a
                    definite idea of the plantation life. The old mahogany furniture, the dessert
                    dishes, the chocolate cups and saucers, the 39 finger glasses, the plate
                    warmers, the dressing tables with double mirrors, the leather couches, the silk
                    bed-quilts, the speaking trumpet, the pewter cooler, the 6 sets of gilt cups,
                    the 22 blue and white china dishes, the red and white gilt dishes, 24 cider
                    glasses, 9 strong beer glasses, 58 wine glasses, 99 jelly glasses, 2 tea boards
                    with sliders, 2 dozen ivory knives and forks, 5 brass chafing dishes, the nut
                    crackers, the sniffers, the snuffers, the Japan waters, the copper coolers, the
                    hour glasses, the reading frames and  the
                    libraries,—all these help to make up a picture of high living not
                    usually thought of in connection with Colonial life.
            THE
                    Library Occurrent for September, 1913, thus speaks of The Story of Indiana and Its People by Robert J. Aley and Max
                    Aley, now in the Young Peoples ’ Reading Circle: "The
                    authors state in their preface that their purpose is ‘to furnish the
                    young people of Indiana with an accurate story of the settlement and growth of
                    the State. ’ Since accuracy is their aim it is regrettable that much
                    of the contents of the book, instead of being based on the results of original
                    research, is a rehash of old treatises which recent investigations have proved
                    inaccurate. The book is textbook in style and bids fair to repel rather than to
                    awaken an interest in the history of our State." The editors of the
                    INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY regret that they can not disagree with this estimate
                    of the book.
            THE
                    Southwestern Historical Quarterly for October contains ats
                    article on the "Movement for State Division in 
                        California
                    , 1849-1860" by William H. Ellison. It furnishes still more
                    evidence of the width and depth of the slavery struggle. Professor Isaac joslin
                    Cox, of the University of 
                        Cincinnati
                    , continues his discission of the "
                        Louisiana
                    -
                        Texas
                     Frontier" in the same issue.
            THE leading article in the 
                  
                            North Carolina
                         Booklet for October is the address delivered by Marshall
                    De Lancey Haywood to the 
                        Roanoke
                     Colony Memorial Association at 
                        Old Fort Raleigh
                    , on 
                        Roanoke
                     Island, at the celebration of 
                        Virginia
                     Dare Day, August 19, 1913. The address is an historical narrative
                    of the American enterprises of Sir Walter Raleigh. The Booklet
                    is published quarterly at 
                  Raleigh, North
                        Carolina
               , by the 
                        North Carolina
                     Society, Daughters of the American Revolution.
            IN this connection attention may be called to the article in
                    the September number of Blackwood's Magazine, by G.
                    Cunningham Terry, on "Sir Walter Raleigh's Lost Colony of 
                        Roanoke
                    ."
            THE
                    
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         News of October 11 contains an interesting sketch of the
                    Dunn family of 
                        Bloomington
                    . Samuel Dunn, the pioneer, settled near 
                        Bloomington
                     at an early date. The present Indiana University campus is a part
                    of his farm. The family cemetery is in a picturesque nook of the campus. George
                    G. Dunn, Congressman  from the Sixth Indiana
                    district in 1847-1849, and from the Third district 1855-1857, was a son of
                    Samuel Dunn. Moses F. Dunn, who now owns the old homestead, and who was a State
                    representative in the Forty-fifth and Forty-sixth General Assemblies, is a son
                    of Congressman George G. Dunn.
            THE
                    
                        Plymouth
                    
                    Republican, special edition, May 24, 1913, contains a history
                    of the First Presbyterian Church of 
                        Plymouth
                     written by Miss Frances E. Emerson, historian of the Indiana
                    Daughters of the American Revolution. It is a creditable piece of work to both
                    the author and the Republican. Cuts of both the old and the
                    new church appear, together with nineteen portraits of ministers and laymen
                    prominently connected with the society. The occasion was the seventy-fifth
                    anniversary of the church.
            THE Thirteenth Annual Conference of the Indiana chapters,
                    Daughters of the American Revolution, by invitation of the Dorothy Q. chapter,
                    met in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , October 7, 8 and 9, 1913. The address of welcome was made by Mrs.
                    Maurice Thompson, regent of Dorothy O. chapter, and Mrs. Charles W. Fairbanks,
                    ex-president-general, responded. Mrs. Thompson expressed the wish that
                    "the same spirit that impelled our grandmothers to do great things in
                    those strenuous days would be developed in the woman of today." In Mrs.
                    Fairbanks ’ response she said: "AH of Indiana, and perhaps
                    all of America, are interested in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    ." She called attention to the great men of the Nation who
                    have lived in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . These include Henry S. Lane, who presided at the first convention
                    of the Republican party and was Senator from Indiana during Lincoln's
                    administration; the novelist, statesman and military man, General Lew Wallace;
                    the novelist, Maurice Thompson; Caleb Mills, who originated the school system of
                    Indiana, and Professor Campbell, who directly caused the Centennial Celebration
                    of 1876. The address of the State regent was one of great interest. She reported
                    fifty-three chapters in existence, with five new chapters being organized. One
                    thousand dollars have been raised in Indiana this year toward defraying the debt
                    on Memorial Continental Hall, 
                        Washington, D. C.
                     Two hundred and fifty new members have been added in Indiana the
                    past year.
            Indiana has been honored with three presidents general: Mrs. Caroline Scott
                    Harrison, Mrs. Charles W. Fairbanks and Mrs. John W. Foster. Mrs. Caroline Scott
                    Harrison was the first president  general
                    and a tablet has been placed in the Indiana Room (the President
                    General's room) in Memorial Continental Hall in her honor. The clay
                    model of this bronze tablet was given by the artist to the Caroline Scott
                    Harrison chapter, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Funds have also been raised for the "Caroline Scott
                    Harrison Scholarship Fund for Mountaineers," the income of which places
                    a Southern mountain boy in the Martha Berry School for
                    Mountaineers at 
                  Rome, Georgia
               . These mountain
                    children are the descendants of the patriots who fought at
                        King's Mountain and other decisive battles in
                    the campaign in the South. This scholarship is but the small beginning of the
                    great Daughters of the American Revolution School which will be built at a day
                    not far distant. In her report on the Mountaineers, Miss Julia Landers, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , proposed plans which will result ultimately in the success of this
                    project. In her report on the "Welfare of Women and Children"
                    Miss Eliza Browning, city librarian of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , reported the defeat of the "eight-hour bill" at
                    the last Legislature, also on the new "truancy bill."
            At 6 o'clock Wednesday evening dinner was served in the banquet room of
                    the Masonic Temple, after which the Daughters attended a reception at the home
                    of Mrs. Maurice Thompson. The home of Mrs. Thompson is said to be the oldest
                    occupied residence in the State of Indiana, and contains many pieces of
                    furniture, dishes and bric-a-brac which have passed through the hands of three
                    generations of Mrs. Thompson's ancestors.
            The event of the conference occurred Wednesday afternoon, when Mrs. James M.
                    Waugh, past regent of Dorothy Q. chapter, led to the platform Mrs. Lucinda
                    McMullen, of New Market, Indiana, a real daughter of the American Revolution.
                    She is the daughter of John Hardee, who was born in 1750 and died in Indiana in
                    1839. He served under Washington for seven years, and was present at the battles
                    of Long Island, Harlem Heights, Valley Forge and Yorktown. Mrs. McMullen was
                    born March 22, 1824, and told her story in a remarkably clear voice. Mrs.
                    McMullen was brought to the conference by Mr. J. H. Armatrout, of New Market,
                    who looks after her interests. She owns her own little home, but her entire
                    financial income is the pension paid her by the Daughters of the American
                    Revolution. All real daughters are paid eight dollars per month by the
                    organization. When asked if the pension supported the "real
                    daughter" Mr. Armatrout replied that more could be used to advantage,
                    and a collection was immediately taken, resuiting  in $49.99, which was turned over to Mr.
                    Armatrout for her benefit.
            Luncheon on Thursday was served in the First Methodist Church. Mrs. Henry S. Lane
                    was present and spoke to the daughters on the theme, "We who are about
                    to die salute you." She is eighty-nine years old, and is a sister of
                    General Lew Wallace. She spoke of the time when the 
                        Crawfordsville
                     company marched off to the Mexican war. She presented the company
                    with the flag which they carried during the entire campaign.
            Greetings were sent to Piankeshaw chapter, of 
                        New Albany
                    , a very active chapter whose daughters were not able to be present
                    owing to the fact that 
                        New Albany
                     celebrated its centennial that week and the daughters of Piankeshaw
                    chapter were active in this work.
            The Time and Place Committee reported that the next conference would be held at
                    the usual time at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Miss Margaret Vessey, regent of the Mary Penrose Wayne chapter, in
                    behalf of the chapter, invited the conference to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .
            Mrs. Lane opened the General Lew Wallace home to the daughters, and most of
                    Thursday afternoon was consumed in visiting this historic residence and driving
                    to the Country Club.
            The officers chosen were the following: State Regent, Frances Haberly-Robertson;
                    Vice Regent, Mrs. William A. Cullop, Vin-cennes; State Secretary, Mrs. J. B.
                    Crankshaw, 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ; State Treasurer, Mrs. Otto Roth, 
                        Bloomington
                    ; Historian, Miss Frances E. Emerson, 
                        Plymouth
                    ; Chaplain, Mrs. D. M. Parry, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; Auditor, Mrs. Frank Felter, 
                        Huntington
                    .
            THE Associated Press of Indiana held its annual banquet at the
                    Claypool Hotel, September 24. Secretary of the Navy Josephus Daniels, a 
                        North Carolina
                     editor, was the principal speaker. "The Relation of
                    Newspapers to the 
                        United States
                     Government" was the subject of his address, which was
                    printed in the News of September 25. Other speakers were
                    Governor Samuel Ralston, William Lowe Bryan, of Indiana University, and W. E.
                    Stone, of Purdue University.
            NEW ALBANY passed its century mark, October
                    13, and now has works, oratory, trolley and automobile trips, banquets, etc.,
                    were one hundred years of history to its credit. The Centennial week, October
                    13-18, was a gala time. Parades, concerts, receptions, fire-mingled  in hopeless confusion. Governor Ralston,
                    ex-Governors Durbin, of Indiana, and Wilson, of 
                        Kentucky
                    , Vice President Marshall (who was unable to be present), ex-Vice
                    President Fairbanks, Senators Shively and Kern and Congressman Cox made up the
                    list of speakers. The only criticism to be offered to the program is the absence
                    from the list of speakers of persons qualified by special study to speak on the
                    history of the State and city.
            THE teachers of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     public schools, in response to the suggestion of the Commercial
                    Club, have undertaken to acquaint the pupils with their city. Excursions to
                    various parts of the city, to different industrial plants, and places of scenic
                    or historic interest, are conducted by skillful guides. The Commercial Club of
                    this city is cooperating with the teachers and assisting with the work. The
                    newspapers, also, are responding with pictures and historical descriptions, more
                    or less accurate, of the various points and places of interest. The movement is
                    worth while, and should not be drowned in the usual slush of the Sunday
                    newspaper edition.
            A monument to General Edward Braddock was unveiled near Uniontown, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , October 15. This will surely mark the high-water point in monument
                    building. A monument to Washington, whose advice saved the army; or to the 
                        Virginia
                     rangers, who covered the retreat; or to the famous Coldstream
                    Guards, whom Braddock's incapacity sacrificed, would have been
                    appropriate; but it would be interesting to know what sentiment could foster a
                    monument to General Braddock.
            THE John Paul chapter of the Daughters of the American
                    Revolution, of 
                        Madison
                    , Indiana, unveiled a marker on the grave of Gazamel Maxwell at 
                        Hanover
                     October 14. Dr. Harvey W. Wiley, of 
                        Washington, D. C,
                     and Judge U. Z. Wiley, great-grandsons of Mr. Maxwell, were present
                    and assisted in the ceremonies. President W. A. Millis, of 
                        Hanover
                     College, delivered an address.
            EDMUND HOSTETTER, a pioneer of Milltown,
                    Indiana, died at his home in Milltown, October 17, 1913. He was born in
                            
                  Canton, Ohio
               , November 23, 1823. In
                    1849 he took the gold fever and crossed the plains and mountains with a small
                    party with ox teams. In 1851 he returned to 
                        Ohio
                    . In 1858 he built a flour mill in Milltown, where he has since
                    lived. In 1861 he enlisted in the Thirty-Eighth Indiana  Infantry Volunteers. At the close of the war he was
                    captain of Company E. An account of his life is given in the English News of the above date.
            THE Indiana Librarians ’ Association held its
                    annual meeting at 
                        Marion
                     October 15, 16 and 17. The general topic of the meeting was
                    "The Socialization of the Library." Such subjects were
                    discussed as "The Social Function of the Library," "A
                    Reference Bureau for Municipal Problems," "Preservation of
                    Local Historical Materials," "Educational Extension
                    Work," "The Library and Industrial Education,"
                    "Lanterns and Slides." These topics show the general tendency
                    of library management at the present time. Mr. Louis J. Baily, of Gary, was
                    elected president, and Miss Julia Mason, of 
                        Princeton
                    , secretary.
            CHARLES G. POWELL, one of the prominent
                    Republican editors of Indiana during the last half of the past century, died
                    October 15, 1913, at the home of a son in 
                  Niles, Michigan
               . He was born in 
                  Monroe county, New
                        York
               , December 1, 1829, being almost eighty-four years
                    old at his death. He became proprietor and editor of the Westville Herald in 1856 and moved it in 1859 to Laporte, where it has continued
                    ever since. Mr. Powell was a delegate to the National Republican conventions at 
                        Chicago
                     in 1868 and to the 
                        Philadelphia
                     convention in 1872, helping to nominate Grant in each. He was
                    postmaster at Laporte 1877 to 1882, at the end of his term taking a position in
                    the Pension Department at 
                        Washington
                    , where he served twelve years. In 1894 he founded the Weekly Republican at Laporte, which he sold in 1906
                    to the Herald and retired.
            MRS. MAY W. DONNAN, a
                    well known teacher and author of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , died at her home on September 27. She was considered one of the
                    most successful teachers of literature in the State. Some of the leading
                    literary men of the State are glad to acknowledge the value of her influence as
                    a teacher. She was born and spent her life in the city where she died. Before
                    her marriage she taught in the public schools. Later she conducted private
                    classes, not only in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , but in 
                  Cincinnati,
                            Greensburg, Shelbyville, Rushville
                and Anderson.
            GOVERNOR WOODBRIDGE F. FERRIS, of 
                        Michigan
                    , accompanied by the commissioners of the 
                        Michigan
                     Historical Society, visited the  University of Notre Dame, October 9, in search of materials connected with
                    the early history of 
                        Michigan
                    .
            MRS. CORNELIA COLE FAIRBANKS died at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . October 24. She served two terms as president-general of the
                    Daughters of the American Revolution. During this period she was active in
                    raising money to build its Memorial Continental Hall at 
                        Washington, D. C.
                     She was one of the founders of the Fortnightly Literary Club, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , serving as its first president, 1885-1888. With her husband,
                    Ex-Vice President Charles W. Fairbanks, she made a tour of the world in
                    1909-1910. She was a descendant of Lieutenant James Blakely, of the 
                        New York
                     line, and of Benjamin Cole, of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     line, of the Revolution.
            AN article by Dr. E. V. Shockley on the "Location and
                    Relocation of County Seats" was intended for this number, but for lack
                    of space and also in order to allow the writer to make further investigations in
                    several counties it was held for the next number.
            THE editor is still working on the Polk Memoir and hopes to
                    have it completed by the next number. The preparation of such material sometimes
                    leads the investigator into fields entirely unexpected at the beginning.
            THE last Legislature created a department of archives in the
                    State Library to be devoted to the collection and preservation of the materials
                    of our State's history. This department is under the supervision of
                    Professor Harlow Lindley, of Earlham College, a man of wide experience in this
                    work. For a full explanation of this work write the State Library for a copy of
                    its July-September Bulletin.
            DR. MORDECAI M. MC DOWELL, of 
                        Vincennes
                     died at his home November 8. He was born in 
                  Jefferson county, Ohio
               , March 10, 1845, the son of Dr. James
                    McDowell, who had moved there from 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . In the fall of 1862 Dr. McDowell enlisted in Company G, Thirteenth 
                        Ohio
                     Cavalry. He was present at 
                        Appomattox
                    , though he had been wounded at 
                        Petersburg
                    . After the war he studied medicine, graduating from 
                        Kentucky
                     Medical in 1868. He located in Freelandsville, 
                        Knox county
                    , Indiana. He has been trustee of Widner township, sheriff of 
                        Knox county
                    , and State  senator 1908-1912.
                    His son, Dr. James McDowell, is mayor of 
                        Vincennes
                    . He was a Mason, a G. A. R., an Elk, and a Democrat.
            ELIAS B. BOLTZ, former editor of the
                    Dunkirk News, and at one time superintendent of the Dunkirk
                    schools, died October 30 in the 
                        Muncie
                     Hospital from injuries received in a wreck on the interur-ban at 
                        Yorktown
                     a few days previous.
            HENRY B. MARTIN, founder of the 
                        Greencastle
                    
                    Democrat, died at Cloverdale, his home, November 9. Before the
                    Civil War Captain Martin had commanded a company of 
                        Iowa
                     rangers in an Indian war. At the opening of the Civil War he
                    organized a company, but not being able to get it mustered in at once he took
                    service in the Second 
                        Kentucky
                    . He received wounds at Barboursville and at 
                        Chickamauga
                    . After the War he became a surveyor and lawyer. From 1885 to 1895
                    he was engaged in surveying Indian reservations for the Federal Government. In
                    1892 he and his son, Charles, founded the 
                        Greencastle
                    
                    Democrat. In 1897 this was sold and a new paper founded in
                            
                  San Bernardino, California
               . He soon
                    returned, however, to Cloverdale, 
                        Putnam county
                    .
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
