
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 44, Issue 4, pages 335-453. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:44+issue:4+year:1948&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Colonel John Francis Hamtramck
            
                    F. Clever Bald
                    ∗
                
            John Francis Hamtramck is a forgotten hero of American history. He is not among the elect in the
                    Dictionary of American Biography, although his name is mentioned there in the sketch of his son, a
                    much less distinguished person, and Stewart H. Holbrook did not bring him out of oblivion to
                    associate with the men whom he spotlighted in the pages of his book, Lost Men of
                        American History.
            
            There are many reasons why Hamtramck deserves to be remembered. Leaving his homeland while still a
                    youth, he joined the army of General Richard 
                        Montgomery
                     in the fall of 1775, and served through the Revolutionary War, rising to the rank of
                    brevet major. Afterwards, under General Josiah Harmar in the Old Northwest, he built and commanded
                    several forts. As lieutentant colonel commanding the First Sub-legion, he won General Anthony 
                        Wayne
                    's commendation for his valor in the Battle of Fallen Timbers; became the first
                    American commandant of 
                        Detroit
                    ; and after having attained the rank of colonel, organized the expeditionary force that
                    built Fort 
                        Dearborn
                    , the nucleus of the metropolis of 
                        Illinois
                    . For all these services he should receive some recognition, at least in the valley of
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                    .
            It is true that a city in 
                        Michigan
                     bears his name, but he is a stranger there. No memorial to the Colonel can be found in
                    that city, but the oversight will one day be corrected; for a recent communication from the
                    mayor's office contained the assurance that when a new city hall is built, it will display
                    some mark of acknowledgment.
            
               
                  ∗ Dr. F. Clever Bald is the assistant director of the 
                            Michigan
                         Historical Collections, 
                     Ann Arbor,
                                Michigan
                  . This paper was read at the
                        session on The Old Northwest" at the forty-first annual meeting of the
                            Mississippi Valley Historical Association at 
                     Rock Island, Illinois
                  , on April 22, 1948.
            
            
            In 
                        Detroit
                    , which by the way, completely surrounds Hamtramck, it is the general opinion that
                    because the population of the city that bears his name is predominantly Polish, the Colonel was
                    himself a Pole.
            John Francis Hamtramck, however, was not a Pole. His father was Charles David Hamtramck, a native of 
                        Luxembourg
                     who had migrated to Quebec in 1749, and his mother was Marie-Anne Bertin, a
                        Canadian.1 Baptized Jean-François on August 16, 1756, at Quebec,
                    he was listed in American Army records as John F., but for his signature he used only the initials
                    of his given names.
            Hamtramck had just passed his nineteenth birthday when in September, 1775, he joined General 
                        Montgomery
                    's army marching on Montreal. Serving first as commissary and then commissioned
                    captain, he won the confidence of Colonel James Livingston and other 
                        New York
                     officers, who recommended him to the Provincial Congress.2 Given
                    the rank of captain in the 
                        New York
                     line, he served in the Fifth Regiment until January 1, 1781, and then in the Second
                    until June, 1783, becoming a brevet major.3
            
            Hamtramck was not unknown to General George 
                        Washington
                    . On at least two occasions, the Commander in chief praised him for his initiative and
                    his ability. Replying to a letter in which the Captain had outlined a plan for a surprise attack on
                    a British fort, 
                        Washington
                     wrote: "It gives me pleasure to see an Officer seeking an opportunity of
                    distinguishing himself and at the same time rendering a service to his Country."4
            
            
               
                  1 Cyprien Tanguay, Dictionnuire
                            Généalogique des Familles Canadiennes (7 vols., Montreal,
                        1871-1890), IV (1871), 458.
               
                  2
                        Journals of the Provincial Congress… of the State of 
                                New York
                            , 1775-1776-1777 (2 vols., 
                     Albany, New York
                  , 1842),
                        II, 361.
               
                  3 Francis B. Heitman, Historical Register of Officers of the
                            Continental Army during the War of the Revolution, April, 1775 to December, 1783 (
                            Washington
                        , 1914), 271. According to Alexander C. Flick (ed.), The American
                            Revolution in 
                                New York
                            
                   (
                     Albany, New York
                  , 1926), 136, the Fifth Regiment was
                        incorporated with the Second on January 1, 1781. Evidence in Almon W. Lauber (ed.), Orderly Books of the Fourth 
                                New York
                             Regiment, 1778-1780, The Second 
                                New York
                             Regiment, 1780-1783, by Samuel Tallmadge and Others, with Diaries of Samuel
                            Tallmadge, 1780-1782, and John Barr, 1779-1782 (
                     Albany, New York
                  ,
                        1932), 570, supports the statement that Hamtramck was in the Second Regiment in 1781, although
                        Heitman assigns him to that Regiment only on January 1, 1783, and gives him the rank of captain.
                        In a letter to the President of Congress, December 21, 1783, General 
                            Washington
                         refers to him as Major Hamtramck. John C. Fitzpatrick (ed.), The
                            Writings of George 
                                Washington
                             from the Original Manuscript Sources, 1765-1799 (39 vols., Washinton,
                        1938), XXVII, 279.
               
                  4 Fitzpatrick, The Writings of George 
                                Washington
                            
                  , XXIII, 462.
            
            
            Two years later, after the war was over, he addressed Governor George Clinton in behalf of Major
                    Hamtramck. "My knowledge of that Officer," he wrote, "is such as makes
                    the task of recommending him to the notice of the Government of this State, extremely pleasing,
                    being assured that if it shall be in their power to favor his views his conduct will always justify
                    any appointment that may be given him."5
            
            Perhaps as a result of this letter and another signed by three 
                        New York
                     generals which 
                        Washington
                     enclosed with his, Hamtramck was commissioned captain of a company raised in 
                        New York
                     to serve in the 
                        United States
                     Infantry Regiment which was under the command of Lieutenant Colonel Josiah Harmar. In
                    the spring of 1785, he was at 
                        Albany
                     receiving prisoners returned by the Indians,6 and in October he
                    marched his company to Fort Pitt.
            Ordered to Fort McIntosh on the Little Beaver, he found the works in a state of decay and the
                    barracks uninhabitable. Floors, doors, and windows were gone, and Captain John Doughty, the former
                    commandant had left no tools except an old handsaw, "whose teeth," Hamtramck
                    declared, "has been worn out in the service of its Country."7
                    Captain Hamtramck remained in the fort as commandant until July 1, 1786.
            At this time he was nearly thirty years old. One-third of his life had been spent as an army officer,
                    and it is likely that his character was pretty definitely formed. Although no portrait of Hamtramck
                    has ever been discovered, and no biography has been written, it is possible from bits of description
                    and from contemporary correspondence to draw a fairly clear sketch of the man.
            Hamtramck did not make an impressive appearance either mounted or on foot. Small in stature, only
                    five feet five inches tall, he is said by one who knew him well to have looked in the saddle like a
                    frog on horseback. The same witness declared, however, that "He had the faculty of
                    inspiring the men with self-confidence, and, notwithstanding he was a most rigid disciplinarian, the
                    troops all loved him, for he was kindhearted, generous, and brave."8
            
            
               
                  5
                  Ibid., XXVII, 255.
               
                  6 Hamtramck to Nicholas Fish, June 14, 1785, Stuyvesant Fish, 1610-1914 (
                            New York
                        , 1942), 60.
               
                  7 Same to same, December 4, 1785, ibid., 64.
               
                  8 Benson J. Lossing, Pictorial Field-Book of the War of
                        1812 (
                            New York
                        , 1869), 46n.
            
            
            Although English was not his native tongue, Hamtramck was able to express himself in that language
                    clearly, if somewhat quaintly. Judging by his correspondence, one might say that he had a peppery
                    disposition, he was quick to discover and denounce delinquencies of subordinates, and he drove
                    himself as hard as he drove his men. He was an able officer in whom his superiors, from 
                        Washington
                     to 
                        Wayne
                    , seem usually to have had complete confidence.
            Early in July, 1786, Colonel Harmar put Hamtramck in command of the companies of Captain John Mercer
                    and Captain William McCurdy, as well as his own, and sent him down the Ohio
                    River to Mingo Bottom to drive squatters from the public domain.9 In
                    obedience to his orders, detachments marched to the clearings where they burned the cabins and
                    destroyed the growing corn of illegal settlers.10
            
            This work was soon interrupted by an order from Colonel Harmar directing Captain Hamtramck to move at
                    once to the intersection of the western boundary of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     with the Ohio River where he would find Captain Thomas Hutchins,
                    Geographer to the 
                        United States
                    , with his corps of surveyors.11 A military escort was essential if
                    they were to perform their task, for the Indians, understanding that surveying was the prelude to
                    settlement, resented the intrusion of these men; and their determination was strengthened by the
                    advice of Captain Alexander McKee, British Indian agent at 
                        Detroit
                    , who continued to urge resistance to American expansion north of the Ohio
                        River.12
            
            Captain Hamtramck joined Hutchins on August 5 with his three companies, to which Colonel Harmar soon
                    added that of Captain Jonathan Heart, when the Geographer asked for more soldiers. During the late
                    summer and early fall of 1786, Hamtramck kept detachments out in the woods with the surveyors and
                    moved his camp from time to time so that he was always in a position to send reinforcements to any
                    party that might be attacked.
            
               
                  9 Harmar to Secretary of War Henry Knox, July 13, 1786, Josiah
                        Harmar's Letter Book A, William L. Clements Library, University of 
                     Michigan, Ann
                            Arbor, Michigan
                  .
               
                  10 Captain John Mercer's report to Hamtramck, August 6, 1786,
                        Josiah Harmar Papers, Clements Library.
               
                  11 Harmar to Hamtramck, July 26, 1786, Harmar's Letter Book A,
                        Clements Library.
               
                  12 McKee to Sir John Johnson, February 25, 1786, in 
                     
                                Michigan
                             Pioneer and Historical Collections (40 vols., Lansing, 
                            Michigan
                        , 1874-1929), XI (1888), 482-483.
            
            
            Because he was operating in dense forests, the commanding officer had an exceedingly difficult task,
                    and it was made more so by what Colonel Harmar called "the shameful neglect" of
                    the contractor who failed to deliver supplies.13 On one occasion, after waiting
                    in vain for provisions and packhorses to arrive, Hamtramck advanced without them, determined, as he
                    explained to the Colonel, to trust "to providance [sic] which, by the
                    way, can be depended on much more than the Contractor."14
            
            Reports of increasing hostility of the 
                        Delaware
                     and the Shawnee, after Colonel Benjamin Logan's expedition from 
                        Kentucky
                     against the Shawnee tows and George Rogers Clark's march up the 
                        Wabash
                    , so frightened the surveyors that they retired to Wheeling before the middle of
                        November.15 Although Hutchins was disappointed because only five ranges of
                    townships were surveyed, he praised Captain Hamtramck for "the cheerful and ready
                    assistance afforded me on every occasion."16
            
            Colonel Harmar also expressed his "fullest approbation" of Hamtramck's
                    conduct in having successfully performed his mission "in spite of great
                        difficulties."17 In fact, Ensign Ebenezer Denny, adjutant of the
                    regiment, declared that the Colonel "thinks him one of his best captains."18 On October 20, 1786, Hamtramck was raised to the rank of major.
            When the surveyors quit work, Hamtramck was not far from Mingo Bottom. Marching to the Ohio
                        River, in obedience to orders from Colonel Harmar, he sent Captain Jonathan
                    Heart's and Captain McCurdy's companies down the river to Fort Harmar; then he
                    selected a site two and a half miles above the Bottom for a fort which would serve as winter
                    quarters for his and Captain Mercer's companies, and, in the spring, as a base for guarding
                    the surveyors.
            Because the season was well advanced, it was imperative 
                  
                     13 Harmar to Thomas Hutchins, September 21, 1786, Harmar's
                            Letter Book A, Clements Library.
                  
                     14Hamtramck to Harmar, September 17, 1786, Harmar Papers, Clements
                            Library.
                  
                     15 Winthrop Sargent to Harmar, November 12, 1786, ibid.
                  
                  
                     16 Hutchins to Harmar, October 17, 1786, ibid.
                  
                  
                     17 Harmar to Hamtramck, November 6, 1786, Harmar's Letter
                            Book A, Clements Library.
                  
                     18 "Military Journal of Major Ebenezer Denny" Memoirs of the Historical Society of 
                                Pennsylvania
                             (14 vols., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1825-1895), VII (1860), 299.
               
                     that shelter for the men be built as quickly as possible. To
                    encourage speed, Hamtramck promised six gallons of liquor to the unit which had its barracks ready
                    first. With this incentive, they set to work with such alacrity that in eight days his own men had
                    completed their houses. Reporting to Colonel Harmar, Hamtramck observed that "the
                    forwardness of my Company on this Occasion can only be attributed to their great attachment to wesky
                        [sic]."19 The other company soon occupied its
                    barracks, a palisade was set up, and all the works were completed by January 8, 1787.
            Not knowing what to call the fort, Hamtramck wrote asking Harmar to name it. The Colonel suggested
                    Fort Hamtramck. The Major was pleased by the compliment, but he asked to be excused "from
                    such an honor," and, without waiting for further direction, he called it Fort 
                        Steuben
                    .20 If it had not been for this display of modesty, Steubenville, 
                        Ohio
                    , might now be Hamtramckville.
            Late in May, 1787, by order of Colonel Harmar, Major Hamtramck abandoned Fort 
                        Steuben
                     and descended the 
                        Ohio
                     with his two companies to Fort Harmar. There he learned that petitions from 
                        Vincennes
                     and the 
                        Illinois
                     country to Congress had finally aroused the legislators to pass a resolution directing
                    that troops be sent to drive squatters from the public lands and to protect the inhabitants from
                    lawless banditti.
            Leaving only skeleton forces to garrison the forts, Colonel Harmar assembled 329 men and floated down
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     to Pigeon Creek. There he placed Major Hamtramck in command of the supply boats with
                    orders to proceed to 
                        Vincennes
                     by way of the 
                        Ohio
                     and the 
                        Wabash
                    . With the remainder of the troops, the Colonel marched overland. Arriving at noon on
                    July 17, the regiment entered the town with colors flying and encamped near George Rogers
                    Clark's blockhouse. Because of low water in the 
                        Wabash
                    , Hamtramck did not reach 
                        Vincennes
                     with the boats until July 25.21
            
            
               
                  19 Hamtramck to Harmar, December 16, 1786, Harmar Papers, Clements
                        Library.
               
                  20 Harmar to Hamtramck December 21, 1786. Harmar's Letter Book A,
                        Clements Library; Hamtramck to Harmar, January 2, 1787, Harmar Papers, Clements Library.
               
                  21 "Military Journal of Major Ebenezer Denny," Memoirs of the Historical Society of 
                            Pennsylvania
                        , VII, 805-806.
            
            
            The French inhabitants gave the troops a warm welcome, for Colonel Harmar had sent word ahead that
                    these were not, as he phrased it, "a set of Villians, but regulars and sent by the grand
                    Council of the Empire, in order to preserve good faith with them and to protect the legal
                        inhabitants."22
            
            The American settlers, however, viewed the invasion with mixed feelings, fearing that their presence
                    was one of the reasons for the expedition. Although they praised the Colonel for bringing peace to
                    this "heretofore unhappy country," they expressed anxiety over the possible loss
                    of their land.23
            
            Discovering after investigation that titles to real estate in the 
                        Vincennes
                     region were so uncertain as to make impossible in a short time a distinction between
                    legal and illegal occupants, Colonel Harmar made no attempt to remove intruders, as he had been
                    ordered to do, but simply accepted petitions to Congress from both French and American inhabitants
                    who requested that their claims be allowed.
            After visiting 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , Cahokia, and the other 
                        Illinois
                     towns, Colonel Harmar returned to 
                        Vincennes
                     where he held parleys with delegations of Piankeshaw and Wea. Greatly impressed with
                    the discipline and the military bearing of the troops, the Indians professed only friendship for the 
                        United States
                    .
            Colonel Harmar decided that a garrison would have to be maintained at 
                        Vincennes
                     to protect the French from lawless frontiersmen, to defend the local Americans from
                    hostile Indians, and if possible to draw the Kickapoo, Piankeshaw, Wea, and the more distant Miami
                    into friendly relations with the 
                        United States
                    . Choosing Major Hamtramck as commandant and ordering him to build a fort, he detached
                    Captain John Smith's infantry company and part of Captain William Ferguson's
                    artillery company—ninety-five men in all—to remain at 
                        Vincennes
                    . The Colonel and the other four companies left on October 2.24
            
            During the next six years, Hamtramck spent most of 
                  
                     22 Harmar to Colonel Le Gras and Major Bosseron, June 19, 1787,
                            Harmar's Letter Book B, Clements Library.
                  
                     23 Address to Colonel Harmar, August 4, 1787, Harmar Papers, Clements
                            Library.
                  
                     24 Harmar to Henry Knox, November 24, 1787, Harmar's Letter
                            Book B, Clements Library.
               
                     his time at this distant outpost. One hundred miles overland
                    from Fort Finney, at the Rapids of the 
                        Ohio
                    , and three times as far by water, the route by which supplies must be sent, he and his
                    little command were in constant danger of being cut off by hostile Indians.
            Major Hamtramck immediately set the soldiers to work building a fort under the direction of Captain
                    Ferguson. Progress, however, was slow because timber had to be hauled from a great distance; and it
                    was not until April, 1788, that the palisade was in place and the blockhouses were completed to the
                    second story. Then the Major expressed confidence in his ability to defend the works against any
                    Indian attack if sufficient provisions were sent to him.25
            
            In his new post which, by order of Colonel Harmar, he had named Fort 
                        Knox
                    , Hamtramck found the contractor even less reliable than he had been on the 
                        Ohio
                    . When his store of provisions was nearly exhausted, he appealed to François
                    Vigo, who willingly furnished supplies for the garrison on credit,26 despite the
                    fact that the 
                        United States
                     government had not yet reimbursed him for the funds he had expended to assist George
                    Rogers Clark during the Revolution.
            Service at 
                        Vincennes
                     was not popular with either officers or men. The former complained that prices were so
                    high they could not live on their subsistence allowances. Recognizing the injustice of their
                    situation, the Major arranged for the issue to them of a soldier's ration in addition.
            The men disliked serving in this out of the way place where the food was scanty and of poor quality,
                    and their pay was always far in arrears. When their terms of enlistment ran out, it was almost
                    impossible to induce them to re-enlist, with the result that at times the garrison was dangerously
                    small. Besides, malaria sent many of them to the hospital every summer. The Commandant himself did
                    not escape the annual visitation, and the surgeon seldom had quinine or other medicines.
            Besides having to solve the problems incident to maintaining a distant outpost, Hamtramck was
                    burdened with governing the French civilians as well. Accustomed to being 
                  
                     25 Hamtramck to Harmar, April 13, 1788, Harmar Papers, Clements
                            Library.
                  
                            26
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     ruled by a military commandant, they appealed to him for the
                    redress of all sorts of grievances.
            Their greatest complaint was against the magistrates whose principal occupation seemed to be
                    collecting exorbitant fees. In answer to a petition of the inhabitants, Hamtramck drew up a set of
                    regulations for a new judicial system. Five justices were to be elected by the people. Petty cases
                    would be tried by one justice, two would hear suits of more importance, and a bench of three would
                    sit as a district court in which trial by jury would be compulsory. The Commandant established a
                    scale of reasonable fees and required the magistrates to take an oath before him to administer
                    justice impartially.27
            
            Sending a copy of the regulations to General Harmar, Hamtramck observed: "My Code of laws
                    will make you laugh, but I hope you will Consider that I am neither a lawyer or a legislator. I have
                    done it for the Best. One good thing is that there is not one amongst them that can find fault with
                        it."28
            
            The people of the 
                        Illinois
                     country also appealed to Hamtramck for courts and for an officer and twenty men to
                    support the civil authority. Declaring that it would be impossible to continue living in a community
                    plagued by anarchy and confusion, they predicted that the few who remained would soon join those who
                    had crossed into Spanish territory. The Major was unable to send a detachment because many of his
                    men were ill, but he forwarded the petition to headquarters and expressed the hope that a garrison
                    would be provided.29
            
            The people in the western country believed that they had been completely forgotten by the 
                        United States
                     government. On several occasions reports reached the villages that Governor Arthur St.
                    Clair would soon visit them, but they proved to be only rumors. In August, 1789, Hamtramck, almost
                    in despair, wrote to General Harmar: "If his Excellency does not come this year…
                    most people will go away to the Spaniards, for they begin to think that there is no such a Man as a
                        Governor…."30
            
            
               
                  27 "Regulations for the Court of Post 
                            Vincennes
                        ," April 6, 1788, ibid.
               
               
                  28 Hamtramck to Harmar, April 13, 1788, ibid.
               
               
                  29 Petition, September 14, 1789, ibid; Hamtramck to
                        Ledru and Edgar, October 14,1789, ibid.
               
               
                  30 Hamtramck to Harmar, August 14, 1789, ibid.
               
            
            
            Finally in March, 1790, the Governor reached Kaskaskis and established 
                        St. Clair County
                    ; and Winthrop Sargent, as acting-governor, going to 
                        Vincennes
                     in June of the same year, organized 
                        Knox County
                    , thus relieving the Commandant of the necessity of improvising civil government. The
                    French inhabitants were not unmindful of Major Hamtramck's labors in their behalf. They
                    handed Sargent a letter in which they praised the "just and humane attention"
                    which he had paid "to the rights and feelings of every individual craving his
                        interposition."31
            
            In August, 1790, shortly after Sargent left town, Major Hamtramck married Marie Josepte Edeline
                    Perrot, a resident of 
                        Vincennes
                     and the widow of Nicholas Perrot, a trader of that place. For some reason, the Major
                    did not inform General Harmar of his marriage; but when the latter learned of it, he sent his
                    congratulations and Mrs. Harmar's to the groom and asked him to present their
                    "kind compliments" to Mrs. Hamtramck.32
            
            Although the details of military administration and the troubles of the civilians kept Major
                    Hamtramck pretty busy, the Indians were his most serious problem. He maintained friendly relations
                    with the neighboring tribes, but he was powerless to prevent raids into 
                        Kentucky
                     by bands of savages, and they even attacked his own soldiers. In July, 1788, a party of
                    fifty ambushed a detachment of thirty-six men under Lieutenant William Peters, which was bringing
                    provisions up the 
                        Wabash
                    . Ten were killed and eight wounded, the remainder fleeing to 
                        Kaskaskia
                    .33
            
            Hamtramck suspected that Frenchmen of 
                        Vincennes
                     might have informed the Indians that the provisions were on the way, and after several
                    were apprehended carrying barrels of the contractor's flour into town at night, he
                    expressed the belief that some of them might even have participated in the fight.34 A year later, however, when he 
                  
                     31 Clarence E. Carter (comp. and ed.), The Territorial
                                Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington
                            , 1934-), The Territory Northwest of the River 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1787-1803, 11, 292.
                  
                     32 Because no record of Hamtramck's marriage has been found,
                            only the approximate date can be given. The congratulations and compliments are contained in
                            Harmar to Hamtramck, September 3, 1790, Harmar's Letter Book H, Clements Library.
                  
                     33 Hamtramck to Harmar, August 12, 1788, Harmar Papers, Clements
                            Library; Lieutenant Peters' report, August 22, 1788, ibid.
                  
                  
                     34 Hamtramck to Harmar, October 13, 1788, ibid.
                  
               
                     called out one hundred of the local militiamen to go down the 
                        Wabash
                     to rescue supply boats from another Indian attack, they obeyed with such alacrity that
                    he praised them for their spirit of loyalty to the 
                        United States
                    .35
            
            Major Hamtramck's task was made more difficult by marauding Kentuckians. One day in August,
                    1788, a ruffian who called himself Major Patrick 
                        Brown
                     appeared at Fort 
                        Knox
                     with sixty mounted riflemen. Blandly announcing that he was hunting Indians and
                    boasting that he had killed nine that morning, he asked for boats to ferry his men across the river.
                    When the Commandant discovered that 
                        Brown
                     had no commission and that he had stolen horses from the French and the Indians of the
                    locality, he ordered him to give up the animals and be gone the way he had come.
            
               
                        Brown
                     insolently refused, took the boats tied up at the shore, and crossed the river.
                    Hamtramck, who had just nine men fit for duty, could only stand and look on in impotent rage. To
                    General Harmar he confessed: "Never was my feeling [sic] so much wounded
                        before."36
            
            Recognizing the need for more troops, Harmar sent Captain James Bradford with his company of
                    artillery early in 1789. This reinforcement increased the garrison of Fort 
                        Knox
                     to 140.37
            
            In March, 1790, Hamtramck received from Governor St. Clair a speech to be sent by a trusty messenger
                    to the Indians of the 
                        Wabash
                     and to the Miami, urging them to make peace with the 
                        United States
                    . Antoine Gamelin, who carried the speech, was courteously received by the tribes on the 
                        Wabash
                    , but they frankly told him that their reply would depend on that of the Miami. When
                    Gamelin delivered the Governor's message to the Miami chiefs, they refused to answer it
                    without consulting the British at 
                        Detroit
                    .38
            
            After reading Gamelin's report, St. Clair decided that 
                  
                     35 Same to same, June 15, 1789, ibid.
                  
                  
                     36 Same to same, August 31, 1788, ibid. The
                            survivors of the attack on Lieutenant Peters' detachment had not yet returned, and
                            many soldiers were ill with malaria.
                  
                     37 Same to same, March 26, 1789, ibid.
                            Bradford's company arrived on March 25. Captain Joseph Asheton to Hamtramck, May
                            31, 1789, ibid. Asheton sent provisions for 140 men.
                  
                     38 "Gamelin's Journal," in William H. Smith
                            (ed.), The St. Chir Papers (2 vols., 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     ,
                            1882), 11, 155-160.
               
                     the Indians must be chastised.39 He ordered
                    General Harmar with fifteen hundred regulars and militiamen to march to the Miami towns, while
                    Hamtramck made a diversion by moving up the 
                        Wabash
                     with 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                     militia and regulars from Fort 
                        Steuben
                     (the new name of the fort at the Rapids of the 
                        Ohio
                    ) and Fort 
                        Knox
                    .40
            
            Hamtramck set out on September 30, 1790, with 330 men and advanced to the Vermilion towns without
                    opposition. The Indians, who had learned of the expedition, had withdrawn. Finding that his supplies
                    were running low, and failing to induce the militia to accept half rations for an advance to the Wea
                    villages, the Major turned back toward 
                        Vincennes
                    , chagrined that he had marched so far for nothing. In his report to General Harmar he
                    declared that "had I to deal only with regular troops, I should order them to live on the
                    Barks [sic]
                of the trees if I thought it
                        necessary…."41
            
            Meanwhile, General Harmar with his motley army proceeded to the Miami villages, which also had been
                    deserted. The troops destroyed cabins and cornfields; but after three separate columns which the
                    General sent out had been severely mauled by Indians lurking in the woods, he retreated to Fort 
                        Washington
                    .
            General Harmar's own experiences with militia on his expedition gave him an understanding of
                    Hamtramck's predicament. Consequently, in replying to the latter's report he
                    assured him that "your conduct during your tour has met my approbation."42
            
            Governor St. Clair asked Major Hamtramck for his recommendations on Indian affairs in the West. In
                    the reply which he sent from 
                        Vincennes
                     on December 2, 1790, the Major declared that "The Indians never can be subdued
                    by just going into their towns and burning their houses and corn and returning the next day, for it
                    is no hardship for an Indian to live without; they make themselves perfectly comfortable on meat
                    alone; and as for houses, they can build them with as much facility as a bird does his
                    nest."
            
               
                  39 Arthur St. Clair to Henry Knox, August 23, 1790, ibid., 156.
               
                  40 Harmar to Hamtramck, July 15, 1790, Harmar's Letter Book H,
                        Clements Library.
               
                  41 Hamtramck to Harmar, November 2, 1790, Harmar Papers, Clements Library.
               
                  42 Harmar to Hamtramck, January 15, 1791, Harmar's Letter Book I,
                        Clements Library.
            
            
            The only proper maneuver, he asserted, was a surprise attack upon the villages by a force of mounted
                    riflemen. He observed, however, that there would be no peace so long as the British held the western
                    posts and continued to encourage Indian hostility to Americans. On the other hand, if a treaty
                    should be made, he declared, the Kentuckians would break it and no jury in 
                        Kentucky
                     would punish the offenders.
            Hamtramck summed up his findings as follows: "These combined circumstances, sir, make me
                    think that, until we are securely intrenched in the Indian country, we can never be sure that peace
                    is fully established; for as the thirst of war is the dearest inheritance an Indian receives from
                    his parents, and vengeance that of the Kentuckians, hostility must then be the result on both
                        sides."43
            
            Five years' experience in the Indian country was condensed into these conclusions of Major
                    Hamtramck. His argument was sound, but the people clamored for vengeance: and so General St. Clair
                    set out with another army made up largely of undisciplined militia, which plodded blindly to its
                    doom.
            Major Hamtramck, commanding the First Infantry Regiment, was not present at the debacle of November
                    4, 1791. Ordered back from Fort Jefferson on October 31 by General St. Clair to capture sixty
                    deserting militiamen who had gone off swearing to plunder an expected commissary train, or at least
                    to protect the supplies and bring them in safely, Hamtramck with his regiment marched southward,
                    while the rest of the army advanced.44
            
            Finding neither deserters nor the supply train, Hamtramck turned northward again to rejoin St. Clair.
                    Having passed Fort Jefferson and hearing the sound of distant cannon fire, he advanced until fleeing
                    militiamen gasped out the news that the army had been totally destroyed. Still more than twenty
                    miles from the battle and fearing for the safety of Fort Jefferson, which was garrisoned only by
                    invalids, he sent Lieutenant William Kersey forward with a detachment and retired with the remainder
                    of the regiment to the Fort.45
            
            Although General St. Clair was entirely satisfied with Hamtramck's conduct, Lieutenant
                    Colonel William Darke, 
                  
                     43 Hamtramck to St. Clair, December 2, 1790, in Smith, St. Clair Papers, II, 197-198.
                  
                     44 St. Clair to 
                                Knox
                            , November 1, 1791, ibid., 251.
                  
                     45 Same to same, November 24, 1791, ibid., 270; see
                            also 261.
               
                     almost mad with chagrin over the disaster, pain from his
                    wounds, and worry about the condition of his son who was lying critically wounded in Fort Jefferson,
                    ordered the Major under arrest and charged him with cowardice and shamefully retreating for fear of
                    the enemy. St. Clair, knowing that Hamtramck was urgently needed at 
                        Vincennes
                    , immediately convened a court martial which completely exonerated him of the
                        charges.46
            
            Back at Fort 
                        Knox
                    , Hamtramck opened negotiations for peace with the Wea and the Eel
                    River Miami. Although he had no authority to conclude a definitive pact, he drew up a
                    preliminary agreement which was signed by nine chiefs on March 14, 1792. One article provided that a
                    treaty would be held as soon as possible at 
                        Vincennes
                    .47
            
            President Washington was pleased with Hamtramck's initiative, but, believing that the making
                    of a permanent peace with the Indians of the 
                        Wabash
                     was a very important matter, he expressed the opinion that "a person of more
                    dignified character than Major Hamtramck should be employed in the negotiation."48 Apparently the President, when he penned that clause, had in mind chiefly the
                    Major's diminutive stature, for a little later he wrote that "the business might
                    have been transacted with zeal and ability by that Officer."49 General
                    Rufus 
                        Putnam
                     was sent as a special envoy, and he concluded a treaty in September, 1792.
            During the same month, Hamtramck was assigned to the Second Sub-legion of the force which was being
                    assembled by General Anthony 
                        Wayne
                     for another expedition against the Indians. Promoted to lieutenant colonel and named
                    commander of the First Sub-legion in February, 1793, he remained at 
                        Vincennes
                     until he was relieved by Captain Thomas Pasteur, who arrived in June with a detachment
                    to occupy the fort.50
            
            Colonel Hamtramck set out to join his regiment, but not without misgivings. For some time he had been
                    contemplating resigning his commission, and it was only promotion, so he said, that kept him in the
                    army. On his journey, 
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., 270.
                  
                     47 Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , 11, 374.
                  
                     48
                            
                                Washington
                             to 
                                Knox
                            , May 21, 1792, in Fitzpatrick, Writings of George 
                                    Washington
                                
                     , XXXII, 50; same to same, August 13, 1792, ibid.,
                            113.
                  
                     49 Same to same, September 3, 1792, ibid., 139.
                  
                     50 Anthony 
                                Wayne
                             to Hamtramck, May 25, 1793, Anthony 
                                Wayne
                             Papers, Historical Society of 
                        Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania
                     .
               
                     while stopping at the Rapids of the 
                        Ohio
                    , he wrote to General Harmar, who had resigned in 1791, informing him that he was simply
                    going to have a good look at the army and that if it seemed incapable of performing the task
                    assigned to it, he too would leave the service. As might be expected of an old soldier, Hamtramck
                    was skeptical about the effectiveness of the new invention, the Legionary Corps, and asked what
                    Harmar thought of it.51
            
            Hamtramck must have been satisfied with the potential competence of the new army, for he did not
                    resign. A year was to elapse, however, before the Legion met its test. Moving forward slowly but
                    resolutely, and constantly training both officers and men, General 
                        Wayne
                     attacked the confederated tribes at the Fallen Timbers on August 20, 1794, and
                    administered a crushing defeat. Colonel Hamtramck, who was in command of the left wing, was cited by
                    the General for bravery and for inspiring his troops.52
            
            
               
                        Wayne
                     marched his army up the Maumee and made camp at the confluence of the 
                        St. Joseph
                     and the St. Mary's rivers, formerly the seat of the
                    powerful and hostile Miami tribes. There he ordered a fort built, and he made plans for bringing the
                    Indians to a treaty at Greenville. A capable and willing emissary was at hand, Antoine Lasselle of
                    the River Raisin near 
                        Detroit
                    , who had been captured in the Battle of Fallen Timbers. Because he was painted like an
                    Indian, he was tried as a spy and convicted; but he was saved from hanging by the intervention of
                    Colonel Hamtramck.53 Happy to have an opportunity to show both his gratitude and
                    his influence with the Indians, Lasselle gladly accepted the task of carrying speeches to the chiefs
                    of the tribes along the Lakes.
            The fort was completed on October 22, 1794. Hamtramck, who was made commandant, named it Fort 
                        Wayne
                     and occupied it with a garrison of six companies. General 
                        Wayne
                     with the remainder of the Legion returned to Greenville.
            Antoine Lasselle hastened to 
                        Detroit
                     and sent out French traders to round up the chiefs. So successful were they 
                  
                     51 Hamtramck to Harmar, July 7, 1793, Harmar Papers, Clements Library.
                  
                     52
                            American State Papers: Documents Legislative and Executive (38 vols., 
                                Washington
                            , 1832-1861), Indian Affairs (2 vole., 1832-1834), I, 491.
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., 494; Rev. David Jones' Diary, 1794-1796, October 18, 1794,
                            American Baptist Historical Society, 
                        Chester, Pennsylvania
                     .
               
                     that late in December he brought to Fort 
                        Wayne
                     forty 
                        Ottawa
                    , Chippewa, Potawatomi, and 
                        Delaware
                    . Colonel Hamtramck held council with the chiefs and dispatched Lasselle with twenty of
                    them to Greenville.54 From that time onward until late summer, delegation after
                    delegation arrived, and the Commandant was almost at his wits' end trying to provide them
                    with food, tobacco, and gifts. He wanted to be generous, for years of experience had taught him that
                    "speaking to an Indian without presents is like consulting a lawyer without a
                        fee."55
            
            General 
                        Wayne
                    's patience was sorely tried by the tardy arrival of some of the chiefs. Until
                    the very last, Colonel Alexander McKee, British Indian agent, tried to prevail on them to stay away;
                    but his efforts only delayed the council, for, as Colonel Hamtramck observed, "the Bayonet
                    of the 20th August last Embarrasses him."56 Finally all the chiefs were
                    assembled at Greenville, and on August 3, 1795, the treaty was signed. Peace had at last been won
                    for the Territory Northwest of the River 
                        Ohio
                    .
            As the time approached for occupying 
                        Detroit
                     in accordance with Article II of Jay's Treaty, Colonel Hamtramck was ordered
                    to descend the Maumee and be ready to advance. On June 7, 1796, he made camp a short distance above
                    the British Fort Miamis, where he waited until July 7, when two small schooners arrived. Embarking a
                    detachment of sixty-five men under Captain Moses Porter, he ordered them to sail for 
                        Detroit
                    . There on July 11, 1796, at noon, after the British had withdrawn, Captain Porter
                    occupied Fort Lernoult and raised the flag of the 
                        United States
                    .
            On the same day Colonel Hamtramck, after leaving a garrison at Fort Miamis, sailed for 
                        Detroit
                     where he arrived on July 13 and took command. The situation was somewhat similar to
                    that which he had found at 
                        Vincennes
                    . The majority of the people were French, but here, instead of American, the other
                    element was British. Again, as at 
                        Vincennes
                    , there was no civil government, and Hamtramck issued proclamations binding on civilians
                    and soldiers alike.
            
               
                  54 Colonel Richard 
                            England
                         to Lieutenant-Governor John Graves Simcoe, February 4, 1795, E. A. Cruikshank
                        (ed.), The Correspondence of Lieut. Governor John Graves Simcoe (5 vols., 
                            Toronto
                        , 1923-1935). III (1925), 286-287. Colonel 
                            England
                         was the British commandant of Fort Lernoult at 
                            Detroit
                        . Simcoe was Lieutenant-Governor of Upper 
                            Canada
                        .
               
                  55 Hamtramck to 
                            Wayne
                        , September 24, 1795, 
                            Wayne
                         Papers, Historical Society of 
                            Pennsylvania
                        .
               
                  56 Same to same, June 17, 1796, ibid.
               
            
            
            He had plenty of trouble. Drunkenness among the troops and desertion encouraged by British subjects
                    were frequent, and the twelve hundred Indians who had swarmed into town to await the arrival of
                    General 
                        Wayne
                     drove Hamtramck nearly frantic with their importunities for food and presents.57
            
            The Colonel was greatly relieved on August 13 by the arrival of General 
                        Wayne
                    , who brought with him Acting-Governor Winthrop Sargent. Again, as at 
                        Vincennes
                    , it was Sargent who established civil government, thus freeing the Commandant of that
                    responsibility.
            While 
                        Wayne
                     was in 
                        Detroit
                    , he disbanded the Legion in accordance with a new act of Congress and organized four
                    regiments of infantry, the corps of artillerists and engineers, and two companies of light dragoons.
                    Some officers were dismissed as supernumerary, but Hamtramck was retained and given command of the
                    First Regiment. On November 15, 1796, General 
                        Wayne
                     sailed for Presqu' Isle after naming him the commandant at 
                        Detroit
                    .58
            
            Mrs. Hamtramck had been drowned on May 21, 1796, while descending the 
                        Wabash
                     from Fort 
                        Wayne
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    .59 Wanting to provide a home for his two small daughters, Julienne
                    and Henriette, Hamtramck invited his widowed mother, who had remarried and was now Mme. Joachim
                    Biron, to come to 
                        Detroit
                    . He bought a farm for her east of the fort and provided that it should pass to his
                    children when she died.60
            
            In 1797, Colonel Hamtramck decided to mark the birthday of President Washington by a military
                    display. This would be the last opportunity of the kind to honor him before he retired from office,
                    and it would be the first observance of his anniversary in 
                        Detroit
                    . Perhaps the Colonel hoped that the French and the British inhabitants would be
                    favorably impressed.
            On February 22 the troops performed maneuvers on the Esplanade, and a national salute was fired by
                    the guns of Fort Lernoult.61 A ball was held on Saturday night in the Council
                    House, and Father Michel Levadoux, the village 
                  
                     57 Same to same, August 1, 1796, ibid; Anthony 
                                Wayne
                             to Isaac 
                                Wayne
                            , September 10, 1796, ibid.
                  
                  
                     58
                            
                                Wayne
                             to Hamtramck, November 13,1796, ibid.
                  
                  
                     59 Louise Rau, unpublished biographical sketch of Hamtramck, 6, Burton
                            Historical Collection, 
                                Detroit
                             Public Library, 
                        Detroit,
                                    Michigan
                     .
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., 19. Madame Biron died in July, 1800.
                  
                     61 Orderly Book, First 
                                United States
                             Infantry Regiment, February 21, 1797, Hamtramck Papers, Burton Historical
                            Collection.
               
                     priest, invited the officers to attend a special vesper service
                    the next day. On that occasion he read a long and florid eulogy of President Washington.62
            
            Late in June, 1797, General James Wilkinson, who had succeeded to the command of the army after the
                    death of General Wayne, came to 
                        Detroit
                    , where he found a dangerous state of affairs. Drunkenness was demoralizing the
                    garrison, and British subjects were enticing American soldiers to desert and cross the river.
                    Because civilians were involved, Wilkinson proclaimed martial law within the circuit of the palisade
                    around the town, thereby arousing the resentment of the merchants, most of whom intended to retain
                    their British allegiance.
            General Wilkinson had been dissatisfied with conditions at Fort 
                        Wayne
                     also. His solution for the problems at the two posts was to exchange garrisons and
                    commandants. Lieutenant Colonel Hamtramck with the First Regiment was transferred to Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , and Lieutenant Colonel David Strong with the Second Regiment, to 
                        Detroit
                    .63
            
            Sometime in 1797, Hamtramck married Miss Rebecca Mackenzie. On April 19, 1798, at Fort 
                        Wayne
                     was born a son who was named John Francis, Junior. Another son, Alexis H. was born on
                    April 8, 1799.64
            
            Early in 1799, Colonel Hamtramck wrote a letter to George 
                        Washington
                     in which he must have congratulated him on his appointment during the previous summer
                    as Lieutenant General in preparation for a war with 
                  France.
                            Washington
                replied very graciously as
                    follows: 
                  
                     
                        Sir: Your polite and flattering letter of the 28th. of January, dated at Fort 
                                        Wayne
                                    , has just got into my hands.
                        If any thing besides a duty, which I think every good citizen owes his Country when
                                    its rights are invaded, and everything dear to it is threatned [sic] would console me for quitting the peaceful scenes on which I had entered
                                    with avidity, it would be the meeting again in the Field of Mars of so many of my
                                    Compatriots in Arms, with whom I had toiled through more than a Seven years War; and
                                    for whose aid and exertions, I was so much indebted. Among this number I certainly
                                    shall place Colo. Hamtramck.65
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
                  62
                        Ibid., February 25, 1797; Levadoux to Bishop John Carroll, March 1, 1797,
                        Letters to Carroll, 4Y9, Archbishop's House, 
                     Baltimore, Maryland
                  .
               
                  63 General Orders, July 9, 1797; General Orders—General James
                        Wilkinson, 1797-1808, War Department Archives, Old Records Division, Adjutant General's
                        Office.
               
                  64 Rau, Hamtramck, 20, 21.
               
                  65 Fitzpatrick, The Writings of George 
                                Washington
                            
                  , XXXVII, 165-166.
            
            
            During the next two years, whenever General Wilkinson was absent, Hamtramck was acting commander of
                    the Western Army, a position which required him to visit the various posts.66 He
                    was at 
                        Detroit
                     in the summer of 1799, and in the fall he moved to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , where he stayed until the spring of 1801. Returning to 
                        Detroit
                     at that time, he remained there in command of the Department of the Lakes. On April 1,
                    1802, he was promoted to the rank of colonel.67
            
            Colonel Hamtramck apparently lived well as befitted one who was the ranking officer and a property
                    owner at 
                        Detroit
                    . Entries in old account books show that he bought 
                        China
                     silk hose, fine shoes, pocket handkerchiefs, and hair powder for himself, as well as
                    considerable quantities of alcoholic beverages: bitterd, 
                        London
                     bottled porter, 
                        Jamaica
                     rum, Madeira, brandy, and port wine. For the children he purchased toys, and for his
                    wife, a black beaver hat, sealskin slippers, ribbons, gloves, a silk umbrella, and a silver thimble.
                    In his home he had a small library which contained among other books The Life of
                        Frederick II of Prussia, Military Tactics, Thompson's Seasons,
                    Montesquieu's The Spirit of Laws, Cicero's works,
                    Mirabeau's works, The American Revolution, and a French Bible.68
            
            Besides his farm near 
                        Detroit
                    , Hamtramck owned a great deal of unimproved land, most of which he had received as
                    bounty for his services in the Revolutionary War. He and William Wells owned a farm near Fort 
                        Wayne
                     which the latter managed. It apparently was not a dependable source of income, for in
                    1801 Wells reported that although he expected to harvest 350 bushels of corn for each of them, he
                    would not be able to sell it because too much had been raised in the neighborhood.69
            
            The Colonel was not successful in business either. A partnership with James and Robert Abbott in a
                    distillery at 
                        Detroit
                     produced nothing but trouble and debts. Among his papers, accounts entitled
                    "Adventure of the Distillery" show only losses, and even after his death, years
                    passed before the disastrous business was wound up.
            
               
                  66 Alexander 
                            Hamilton
                         to Secretary of War James McHenry, April 29, 1799; and 
                            Hamilton
                         to Hamtramck, Ma 2, 1799, Bernard C. Steiner, The Life and
                            Correspondence of James McHenry (
                     Cleveland, Ohio
                  , 1907),
                        441-442.
               
                  67 Heitman, Historical Register of Officers of the
                            Continental Amy during the War of the Revolution, 271.
               
                  68 Hamtramck Papers, Burton Historical Collection.
               
                  69 William Wells to Hamtramck, October 29, 1801, Ibid.
               
            
            
            In the spring of 1803, in obedience to orders from Secretary of War Henry Dearborn, Colonel Hamtramck
                    made arrangements to send a detachment under Captain John Whistler to build a fort at the mouth of
                    the Chicago River. No less an authority than Milo M. Quaife has held that
                    "The building of Fort 
                        Dearborn
                     marks the real beginning of civilized 
                        Chicago
                    ," and that Hamtramck may be called the founder of the metropolis.70
            
            The Colonel, however, was not permitted to have any further hand in the work, for he died on April
                    11, 1803, before Captain Whistler set out from 
                        Detroit
                    . He was buried in Ste Anne's Cemetery on April 13, and the officers of his
                    command provided a marble slab for his tomb.71 Later, when 
                        Detroit
                     expanded, his remains were moved to Mt. Elliott Cemetery where
                    today the restored stone bears the original inscription which reads in part: 
                        SACRED TO THE MEMORY OF JOHN FRANCIS HAMTRAMCK, ESQ., COLONEL OF THE FIRST UNITED STATES
                            REGIMENT OF INFANTRY, AND COMMANDANT OF DETROIT AND ITS DEPENDENCIES…. TRUE
                            PATRIOTISM, AND A ZEALOUS ATTACHMENT TO NATIONAL LIBERTY JOINED TO A LAUDABLE AMBITION, LED
                            HIM INTO MILITARY SERVICE AT A [sic] EARLY PERIOD OF HIS LIFE. HE WAS A
                            SOLDIER EVEN BEFORE HE WAS A MAN. HE WAS AN ACTIVE PARTICIPANT IN ALL THE DANGERS,
                            DIFFICULTIES AND HONORS OF THE REVOLUTIONARY WAR. AND HIS HEROISM AND UNIFORM GOOD CONDUCT
                            PROCURED HIM THE ATTENTION AND PER SONAL THANKS OF THE IMMORTAL WASHINGTON. THE UNITED
                            STATES IN HIM HAVE LOST A VALUABLE OFFICER AND A GOOD CITIZEN, AND SOCIETY A USEFUL AND
                            PLEASANT MEMBER. TO HIS FAMILY THE LOSS IS INCALCULABLE, AND HIS FRIENDS [WILL] NEVER FORGET
                            THE MEMORY OF HAMTRAMCK.72
                  
                    
            
            If this recital smacks too much of the exaggerated sentiment associated with funeral eulogies to be
                    credible, a tribute paid the Colonel in a private letter written by Joseph Campau, a merchant of 
                        Detroit
                    , has the ring of honest reporting. Campau wrote: "It seems that everyone
                    mourns his passing."73 No man could want a finer epitaph.
            
               
                  70 Milo M. Quaife, "
                            Detroit
                         and earl 
                            Chicago
                        ," in Burton Historical Colection Leaflet (10 vols.,
                                
                     Detroit, Michigan
                  , 1922-1931), V (1926-1927), 38.
               
                  71 Registre de Sainte Anne, 
                            Detroit
                        , 1801-1842, copy in the Burton Historical Collection.
               
                  72 The text on the restored stone varies somewhat from that printed in
                        Silas Farmer, The History of 
                                Detroit
                             and 
                                Michigan
                            , or The Metropolis Illustrated (
                     Detroit, Michigan
                  , 1884),
                        64.
               
                  73 Joseph Campau to John R. Williams, April 20, 1803, John R. Williams
                        Papers, Burton Historical Collection.
            
         
         
         
            Padding Satirizes Owenism
            
                    Mentor L. Williams
                    ∗
                
            One Sunday in August, 1826, Robert Owen stood before the assembled Owenites of 
                        New Harmony
                    , Indiana, and read them passages from a book that had just come into his hands, The Merry Tales of the Three 
                            Wise
                         Men of Gotham.
               1 James Kirke Paulding, satirist
                    extraordinary, defender and protector of the American name and faith, had scored another
                    contemporary success. The Merry Tales, like its predecessors, The
                        Diverting History of John Bull and Brother Jonathan (1812), The 
                            United States
                         and 
                            England
                        
                (1822), John Bull in America (1825), was another of
                    Paulding's satires in the "paper war" between Great Britain and the 
                        United States
                    . The anti-British virus that had infected so many American writers produced in Paulding
                    an intermittent fever the recurrences of which required little or no provocation.
                    Paulding's animus was directed at the British travelers in the books cited above; it was
                    leveled at Scott in The Lay of the Scottish Fiddle (1813) and Koningsmarke (1823). In The Merry Tales it was Owenism, English legal
                    procedure, and phrenology that incurred Paulding's wrath.2
            
            Though the story of Owen's experimental community has been told and retold,3 often with a needless amount of 
                  
                     ∗ Dr. Mentor L. Williams is an associate professor of
                            English at 
                                Illinois
                             Institute of Technology, 
                        Chicago, Illinois
                     .
                  
                     1 George B. Lockwood, The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement (
                                New York
                            , 1905), 150. Marguerite Young, Angel in the Forest (
                                New York
                            , 1946), 236-237, gives a very distorted version of the incident.
                  
                     2
                            The Merry Tales of the Three 
                                    Wise
                                 Men of Gotham (
                                New York
                            , 1826) has not received proper attention from American literary historians and
                            critics. In chapter XIII of The Literary Life of James Kirke Paulding (
                                New York
                            , 1867), William I. Paulding quoted, without comment, all of the
                            "Introductory Dissertation" from The Merry Tales and the
                            first paragraph of each of the three satires. Amos L. Herold's James Kirke Paulding, Versatile American in 
                                Columbia
                             University Studies in English and Comparative Literature (
                                New York
                            , 1912-), No. 85 (1926), the only full length modern study, disposed of the book
                            in one paragraph. "The pieces… should not be called tales. They are
                            really narrative essays. in the first, a humorous exposition, Paulding satirizes Robert,
                            Owen's idea of the perfectibility of man. The second is a pleasant satire on courts
                            and laws. The third… belittles the pretensions of phrenology. See page 114.
                  
                     3 Recent studies dealing with 
                                New Harmony
                             are Young's Angel in the Forest (poetic-fiction,
                            1945) and Richard W. Leopold's Robert Dale Owen, A Biography
                                    (
                        Cambridge, Massachusetts
                     , 1940). Earlier accounts may be found
                            in John Humphrey Noyes' History of American Socialism (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1870); Robert Dale Owen's Threading My Way (
                                New York
                            , 1874); and George B. Lockwood's The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Communities
                  
               
                     scorn,4 it is not out of order to sketch it
                    again as a background for an analysis of Paulding's satire. Robert Owen had good reason to
                    abandon his plans for reforming society in 
                        England
                     according to his rational pattern. Prelates and potentates from 
                        England
                     to Russia had applauded his efforts at New Lanark, but when it became obvious that his
                    aim was not only to reform society but to remodel the industrial society of 
                        England
                     by parliamentary legislation his supporters deserted in headlong flight. There was
                    ample precedent for his turning to America as the place to make the great social experiment. For two
                    centuries the disheartened and the disillusioned of Europe had been crossing the Atlantic to the new
                    Canaan to set up societies, theocratic and economic, on a soil untainted by the corruptions and
                    perversions of the Old World.
            In the promised land, where fertility and salubriousness were already legendary, new civilizations
                    were certain to thrive. Owen was no stranger to these visions. Furthermore, had not the inhabitants
                    of America, through successful application of reason to the establishment of a new
                    political system, shown themselves peculiarly susceptible to the operation of the reasoning faculty?
                    And had not Owen found a ready audience in those Americans to whom he had addressed his schemes in
                    Europe? John Q. Adams, among others, had listened approvingly as he poured the "new view of
                    society" into his ears.5 When he heard from George Flower that George
                    Rapp was preparing to sell his Harmony Community on the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    , Owen was more than ready to launch the project that would show the world 
                  (
                                Marion
                            , Indiana 1902). Sketches by contemporaries include Paul 
                                Brown
                            's Twelve Months in 
                                    New Harmony
                                
                     
                            
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1827), Duke of Saxe-Weimar's Travels Through North America (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1828), "Letters of William Pelham" in Harlow
                            Lindley's Indiana as Seen by Earl Travelers in Indiana Historical
                                Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1916-) (1916), "Diary of William Owen," edited by
                            Joel W. Hiatt, in Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                             Indiana, 1895-), IV (1906), 1-134, "Papers of Thomas and Sarah Pears,
                            edited by Thomas C. Pears Jr., in ibid, XI (1937), 1-96, and
                            "Diaries of Donald Macdonald, edited by Caroline D. Snedeker, in ibid., XIV (1944), 143-380.
                  
                     4 See especially D. C. Peattie, "When Communism Was Tried in
                            America," in the Reader's Digest (Pleasantville, 
                                New York
                            , 1922-), LXI, November, 1942, pp. 67-70.
                  
                     5 Robert Owen, The Life of Robert Owen (
                                London
                            , 1867-1868), passim.
                  
               
                     the truth of his doctrines. He bought Harmony in 1825 for
                    $125,000.
            Owen's arrival in America had all the characteristics of a messianic visitation. Owen, of
                    course, was a masterful promoter. No one had keener notions of how to arouse sympathy or elicit
                    support than this canny Welshman: notices to the press; an address to the public; dinners with
                    merchants, philanthropists, and politicians; a carefully wangled invitation to address the Congress
                    of the 
                        United States
                     where he exhibited a model of his community and answered congressmen's queries
                    clearly and forcefully.6 He was not looked on as a freak, far from it; he was
                    sought eagerly by the great and learned of the day, and obligingly explained his views to all and
                    sundry. The whole amazing episode was capped by his "call" to all men of good will
                    to come to him at 
                        New Harmony
                     and demonstrate at once the soundness of his system.7
            
            To 
                        New Harmony
                     came many who were earnest seekers after the perfection promised, men like William
                    Pelham, Thomas Pears, and Paul 
                        Brown
                    ; to it also came the rag, tag, and bobtail democracy of the indigent west, a
                    circumstance that Owen could neither foresee nor understand. In the flush of initial enthusiasm,
                    Owen packed himself off to 
                        England
                    , leaving the colony to the guidance of his inexperienced eldest son, William, and a
                    group of faithful believers. The problems confronting the directors were almost insuperable.8 By the time Owen returned in 1826 schisms and disillusionment 
                  
                     6 In 
                                New York
                            , in 1824-1825, Owen was entertained by Charles Kin Judge David Ogden, Abram
                            Ogden DeWitt Clinton, Dr. David Hosack, and Stephen 
                                Van
                                Rensselaer
                            . In 
                                Philadelphia
                             he met with Dr. James Rush and Mathew Carey. In 
                                Washington
                             he talked with John Q. Adams John C. Calhoun, William Wirt, and James 
                                Monroe
                            . He discussed and exhibited plans at a soiree given by Dr. Hosack and at a
                            dinner at 
                                Van
                                Rensselaer
                            's. He also presented his plans in a private lecture at the 
                                Franklin
                             Institute in 
                                Philadelphia
                            . His "Discourse on a New System of Society" was delivered
                            February 25, 1825 and repeated March 7. Later, in the fall of 1825 he gave similar addresses
                            in 
                                New York
                             and 
                                Philadelphia
                            . All his public utterances were well noticed by the press. He also visited,
                            late in 1825, Prince Charles Bonaparte and Prince Lucien Marat at their estates near
                            Trenton, 
                                New Jersey
                            . "Diaries of Donald Macdonald," in Indiana Historical Society
                                Publications, XIV, passim; see also Lockwood, Th 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Communities, 87.
                  
                     7 His call was made in a widely publicized address at 
                                New Harmony
                            , April 27, 1825. 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana, Gazette, October 1, 1825.
                  
                     8 See 
                                Brown
                            , Twelve Months in 
                                    New Harmony
                                ; "Letters of William Pelham," Lindley, Indiana as Seen by Early Travelers, in Indiana Historical Collections, III; "Papers of Thomas and Sarah Pears," in Indiana
                            Historical Society Publications, XI.
               
                     had wrought damage irreparable. Despite the intellectual
                    recruits in the "Boatload of Knowledge,"9 there was no
                    possibility of regaining lost ground. Constitution after constitution was drawn up and as quickly
                    abandoned. Finally, to retrench financially, though by no means admitting complete collapse of the
                    scheme, Owen was forced to break the community holdings into individual parcels and quit the
                        experiment.10 Despite optimistic farewell addresses,11
                    history as well as contemporary opinion branded the venture with the derogatory
                    epithet—failure.
            Americans were generally of two minds regarding 
                        New Harmony
                    . They were either enthusiasts or critics. The enthusiasts praised Owen's
                    experiment and sought to extend it elsewhere. A record of these proliferations of Owenite communism
                    would fill a fair-sized volume.12
            
            The critics fall into two classes: those who, because of their fundamentalist theological doctrines,
                    thought the rational experiment in social organization contrary to God's will and holy
                    ordinance, and those who believed Owen's system to be a violation of the normal patterns of
                    human behavior. The former attacked Owenism for its free thought, its godlessness, its
                    "Fanny Wrightism" (then a tern signifying loose sexual attitudes), its leveling of
                    the social distinctions "created by wealth," its enmity toward the institutions of
                    property and marriage.13 That there was much semantic trickery in these
                    allegations is apparent; yet there 
                  
                     9 The contingent of scholars and savants gathered by William Maclure
                            and Owen that arrived in 
                                New Harmony
                             in January, 1826, included some of the best scientific and educational minds
                            available at that time.
                  
                     10 Leopold's Robert Dale Owen contains the
                            most accurate account of this troubled period in the life of 
                                New Harmony
                            .
                  
                     11 Owen's addresses were delivered on May 26 and 27, 1827.
                            Lock-wood, The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 166,173.
                  
                     12 Quakers everywhere, especially in 
                                New York
                             and 
                                Pittsburgh
                            , set u Owenite Community study groups. Elias Hicks was one of those thus
                            interested. See "Diaries of Donald Macdonald," in Indiana Historical
                            Society Publications, XIV, for Owen's contacts with Hicks and
                            other Quakers. Besides the schismatic offshoots at 
                                New Harmony
                            , Owenite colonies were established at Yellow Springs, 
                                Ohio
                            ; Albion, 
                                Illinois
                            ; Valley Forge, 
                        Pennsylvania;
                                    Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
                     ; Blue Srings, Indiana; Haverstraw, 
                                New York
                            ; Coxsackie, 
                                New York
                            ; and 
                        Nashoba, Tennessee
                     . Lockwood, The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 177ff.
                  
                     13 One of the most virulent of these attacks was written by L. S.
                            Everett several years later, during the Abner Kneeland persecution. An Exposure
                                of the Principles of tie "Free Inquirers" (
                                Boston
                            , 1831), alleged that the heresies of Frances Wright, Robert Dale Owen, Robert
                            L. Jennings, and Kneeland all originated in 
                                New Harmony
                             Owenism.
               
                     was hardly more of it in them than there is in some of the more
                    recent castigations of 
                        New Harmony
                     in our own day.14
            
            Another example of criticism of this type is found in a popular bit of doggerel much clipped by the
                    newspapers in 1826.
            
                    The Devil at length scrambled out of the hole Discovered by Symmes at the freezing North Pole: He
                        mounted an iceberg, spread his wings for a sail, And started for earth with his long, barbed
                        tail.
                    He heard that a number of people were going To live on the 
                            Wabash
                         with great Mr. Owen: He said to himself, "I must now have a care,
                        Circumstances require that myself should be there."
                
            The Devil discovers that Owenite principles have been set up to replace religion and that there will
                    soon be no one to listen to preachers. "Since it's plain that religion is changed
                    to opinions," the Devil hastens home to enlarge his dominions.
            
                    The Devil then mounted again on the ice, And dashed through the waves, and got home in a thrice,
                        And told his fell imps whom he kept at the pole Circumstances required they should widen the
                            hole!15
               
                
            Of the second class of critics, none was more fair, honest, and reasonable in his refutation of Owen
                    than W. L. Fisher of 
                        Philadelphia
                    . In 1826, he wrote a telling pamphlet, based on the philosophic theories of Thomas
                    Reid, Dugald Stewart, and Francis Hutcheson, showing that all reform must be within. Reformation, requires that man look "to the manifestations of good in the
                    secret soul," said Fisher; when he does, this community is rendered
                    unnecessary, in fact, each person will then form "a sort of nucleus, which would attract
                    other persons, and these again becoming the 
                  
                     14 Peattie, "When Communism Was Tried in America,"
                            in Reader's Digest, LXI, November, 1942, pp. 67-70.
                  
                     15 Quoted in both Lockwood, The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement, 103; and Young, Angel in the Forest,
                            214-215. John Cleves Symmes was an eccentric genius noted for Symmes' Purchase in 
                                Ohio
                             and notorious for his fantastic theory that the interior of the earth was
                            "hollow and habitable." See James McBride, Symmes'
                                Theory of Concentric Spheres: Demonstrating that the Earth is Hollow, Habitable, and
                                Widely Open about the Poles (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     ,
                            1826); John W. Peck, "Symmes' Theory," in 
                        
                                    Ohio
                                 Archaeological and Historical Quarterly (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1887-), XVIII, 28-42.
               
                     examples of reformation to others, the world would soon exhibit
                    an elysium." With unusual acumen Fisher wrote: 
                        It appears to me that self-interest and the knowledge of the influence of circumstances, on
                            which Robert Owen rests his plan of reformation, in his "new views of
                            society", are incapable of producing, under any modification, the effects proposed,
                            and that the new system contains within itself the seeds of its own destruction.16
                  
                    
            
            James Kirke Paulding also belonged to this second critical group. While Fisher gently and effectively
                    undermined the philosophical foundations of Owenism, Paulding belabored them with sarcastic bludgeon
                    hoping to reduce them to ridiculous nonsense. Paulding's Merry Tales
                    satirized several prevailing notions. The three wise men of Gotham put out to sea in a bowl bound,
                    most naturally, for the Concentric Spheres, the area inside the hollow terrestrial globe seriously
                    postulated by Captain John C. Symmes.17 Having met with misfortune and rebuff at
                    the hands of practical Americans, they had planned new conquests in that more favorable locale.
                    Being philosophers rather than navigators, they regaled each other with the events that led them to
                    make this wise decision. The first wise man, Mr. Harmony, told a tale about himself, "The
                    Man Machine, or, the Pupil of Circumstances" (Owenism); the second, Mr. Quominus, related
                    his history, "The Perfection of Reason" (Common Law); and the third, Dr. Spurrem,
                    unfolded a remarkable narrative, "The Perfection of Science" (Phrenology).18 They fell out among themselves and in the ensuing struggle the bowl was
                    cracked and they were engulfed in a watery vortex which undoubtedly carried them directly to the
                    Concentric Spheres.
            "The Man Machine, or, the Pupil of Circumstances"19
                    
                  
                     16 W. L. Fisher, An Examination of the New System of
                                Society by Robert Owen Showing Its Insufficiency to Reform Mankind with Observations on
                                the Operation of the Principle of Virtue in the Mind of Man (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1826), 13.
                  
                     17 Whether Paulding had the bit of doggerel in mind when he wrote or
                            not is uncertain. Such a concept is a "natural" for the satirical minded.
                  
                     18 The title page of The Merry Tales bears a crude
                            woodcut of the three men in a bowl. The phrenologist holds a charted head, the la a law
                            book, and the man machine a model readily recognized as that which Owen exhibited throughout
                            the 
                                United States
                            .
                  
                     19
                            The Merry Tales, 21-142. Paulding chose the phrase "Man
                            Machine" in order to stress that aspect of Owen's philosophy which clamed
                            that man was the product of forces acting upon him from outside himself.
               
                     is a miserable tale if considered merely as narrative; as
                    satire only second rate. Nevertheless, it is a formidable attack on Owen's theories and
                    attracted the notice of Owen himself. For that reason it deserves analysis.
            The Man Machine had been born in a country "unworthy of his nativity," the son of a
                    poor man whose only wealth was a "fruitful wife and a great store of children." He
                    had been bound out from the ages of nine to thirteen to a factory owner who worked him fourteen
                    hours a day and even fined him for sneezing though he was choking from cotton dust. Then, a
                    celebrated philanthropist conceived a plan devoted to the production of cotton cloth and the
                    perfectibility of man. The Man Machine began working in the new factory after his old employer had
                    fined him for wiping away tears occasioned by listening to a bird singing outside the factory
                    window. His new employer gathered five hundred men, women, and children about him and made a speech
                    expounding his social theories. The "new view of society" was enthusiastically set
                    in operation.20 Soon, however, "counteracting principles"
                    began to interfere with the philanthropist's schemes. To check these disturbing forces he
                    attempted to train the children ab ovo,21 though with
                    indifferent success. One such child was eventually brought to perfection; he would do only what he
                    was told to do and he met an early demise by being run over by a wagon since no one in authority was
                    near to tell him to get out of the way. Such things as emulation, imposition, preferences, and petty
                    inequalities continued to upset the master's schemes. Whatever success the project enjoyed
                    resulted from the efforts of the "committee of managment" which did all the
                    thinking, planning, and deciding.22 The workers accepted the rule of the
                    committee because the community's common surplus fund was steadily increasing. The
                    treasurer, a "perfect" person at the time of his election, was overcome by the
                        
                  
                     20 Paulding regularly refers in his footnotes to a work called
                            "A New View of Society," one of the titles by which Owen's
                            theories were broadcast. The speech quoted by the Man Machine, however, is a badly and
                            deliberately garbled version of Owen's speech to the 
                                United States
                             Congress.
                  
                     21 Paulding was, of course, referring to Owen's concept of
                            kindergarten education, and to his insistence that all men had been erroneously trained from
                            birth.
                  
                     22 Similar committees of management characterized the 
                                New Harmony
                             community.
               
                     love of money and absconded with the fund. Whereupon, the
                    members of the community, lacking the "cement" of the surplus, began to sigh
                        
                        for that freedom of will, that release from eternal restrain—eternal
                            supervision—and eternal monotony which they were obliged to submit to, in order
                            to arrive at perfection. The idea of freedom was so exquisitely grateful, that they forgot
                            their losses, and in a little time, in spite of my master's exhortations, and the
                            logic of his New View of Society which he read over to them six times, they flew away like
                            gay birds in all directions, leaving a disconsolate teacher without any scholars, but
                            myself, and few of the lame, blind and incapable of the community who were left behind.23
                  
                    
            
            Finally, the Man Machine came into a small fortune. Offered the position of treasurer if he would
                    invest it in the factory-community, he refused and returned to the world to put the "new
                    views of society" into practice on his own estate. He was soon mulcted of most of his
                    property and his own steward had him sent to a madhouse. When released, the Man Machine sold his
                    estate to the steward and set out for the new world with what remained of his wealth. Fleeced of
                    that remainder by a fellow passenger, he was thrown into jail. A kind American rescued him from this
                    predicament and gave him a home and employment. Unfit for any labor requiring individual
                    responsibility and unable to convert his American benefactor to his views, the Man Machine longed to
                    leave. Happily, he heard of the "sublime theory of Concentric Spheres" and set out
                    at once for that region to seek anew the "perfectibility of man." Such was the Man
                    Machine's story as he told it to his two companions in the bowl.
            Paulding's arguments against Owenism centered about three points: (1) Owen's denial
                    of inherent traits or passions, (2) his disregard of the natural inequalities in man, (3) his
                    failure to provide a positive incentive to virtue.
            As Paulding viewed Owen's philosophy, the chief flaw 
                  
                     23
                            The Merry Tales, 75-76. Either Paulding was reading the adverse letters
                            appearing in the press or he was unusually perspicacious. He wrote the Merry
                                Tales early in 1826; the "Preface" was written in February. Of
                            those who left the colony the Man Machine has this to say: "What became of the
                            grown up children, thus putting themselves upon their country, destitute of the habits and
                            experience necessary to self-government, security, nay, existence in the wide world, I know
                            not to a certainty. I have heard that many were wrecked upon the unknown coast of the world,
                            and that the remainder, during a great part of their lives, were indebted for support, to
                            that society which they had deserted, in pursuit of perfection." Ibid., 76.
               
                     lay in the failure to account for conduct arising from the
                    inner temperament of man. He returned to this problem no less than three times in the satire.
                    Typical of his argument is the following dialogue between the philanthropist (Owen) and the Man
                    Machine. What were the "counteracting principles"? the Man Machine asked. They are
                    "all those vices, folies, inconsistencies, absurdities, habits, principles, and feelings,
                    which an erroneous system of education for the last six thousand years has implanted in the human
                    race, so as to change, as it were, their very natures, making them almost unsusceptible of
                        perfectibility."24
            
            What was an erroneous system of education? continued the Man Machine. "A system which
                    counteracts human nature." But, can there be such a thing if "human
                    nature" is merely wax? countered the Man Machine. 
                        "Right, sir—right—human nature is an absurdity, a
                            nonentity— a—a—in short, man is nothing but a machine, and
                            his nature, or the first principle of his existence, nothing more than the force of an
                            innate —an innate—an—a—law of matter like that
                            which causes the wheel to go in a circle, and the runner in a horizontal line."
                        "But it has often puzzled me, sir, why—if human nature is a mere machine
                            with its one inflexible law of action like that of a wheel—why you should take so
                            much trouble to make it go better. But after all, sir, I don't see how this
                            explains the counteracting principles."
                        "… the counteracting principle is that tendency to wrong and mischief,
                            which is planted in the Man Machine by an erroneous system of education; and the force of
                            circumstances is nothing more than the temptations thrown into his way by this erroneous
                            system…. avarice, lust, ambition, envy, malice, and
                            revenge…."
                        "O! I understand now—what we used to call the passions."
                        "The passions! 'tis false, sir—they are not what we used to call
                            the passions—the passions are phantoms—they have no existence except
                            in the brain of stupidity—they are the infamous incestuous product of the vile
                            system of education pursued for the last six thousand years."25
                  
                    
            
            Having thus made the Owenite philanthropist look ridiculous, Paulding, somewhat too smugly,
                    considering the weaknesses of his method, turned to the assumption that lay behind Owen's
                    denial of an inherent human nature. Owen maintained that the factors in human conduct that led to
                    evil—envy, ambition, malice, etc.—were primarily the result of inequalities.
                    Eliminate inequalities and much of man's "evil nature" will disappear. To
                    Paulding this offered excellent 
                  
                     24
                            Ibid., 78.
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., 79-80.
               
                     opportunity for satire. Though there might be a leveling of
                    distinction based on property, there were still serious tendencies toward inequality that could not
                    be eradicated. Equality could not be achieved. The young men all wanted to marry the same girl and
                    could not be persuaded that another girl was equally good. The lady whose husband had a ten-year
                    claim on the surplus fund looked down on the lady with only a five-year stake in that fund. She
                    valued the difference as much as if she actually possessed it. Prettier children were another source
                    of inequality. The philanthropist could regulate the number of children but not their looks. A
                    dispute between two women arose over the position of their parlors; one faced north, the other
                    south. The dispute spread to the entire community; the factionalism was not ended by the
                    master's decision that to be in the sun in winter was equal to being out of it in summer.
                    Equality, not the exercise of talent was the purpose of the community; consequently, no system of
                    rewards could be employed. The Man Machine once tried to achieve the master's favor, but he
                    found that he was resented and hated. "Individual perfectibility was incompatible with the
                    perfectibility of the whole, and the only way to preserve HARMONY was to be no better than other
                        people."26
            
            Paulding, like Aldous Huxley, was intrigued with the idea that the collectivistic society destroyed
                    all incentive to complete, wholesome, virtuous living. As there were no "mutual wants,
                    mutual weaknesses, and mutual dependence, there was no room, nor indeed any occasion, for the
                    exercise of the social virtues, except so far as they are negatively exercised in refraining from
                    actual violence or injury." Only the chief and the planning committee exercised any powers
                    other than the capacity to work. There could be no use of virtue, talent, or intelligence by the
                    members of the community. 
                        They thought for us, and they acted for us. They made the laws, and they administered them.
                            They took care of our morals, our manners, and our money, while we, thrice happy
                            machines,… worked by rule, ate by rule, slept by rule, and were as merry as so
                            many cabbages, growing in regular lines…. We did not labour with that spirit and
                            alacrity men do when they are labouring for themselves, but from a 
                        
                           26
                                    Ibid., 47. That this portrayal was a perversion and distortion of
                                    Owen's theory made no more difference to Paulding than it makes to present
                                    day critics of 
                                        New Harmony
                                    .
                     
                             habit acquired by the machine, which went its regular
                            course day after day. But this, my master consisted as the highest proof of perfectibility,
                            which properly understood, consisted in doing every thing necessary to the happiness of the
                            community not from a sense of duty but from a habit acquired by the Man Machine.27
                  
                    The "regularity becoming to perfect machines," the "beautiful
                    monotony, like the ticking of a clock, or the evolutions of a spinning jenny" that must
                    inevitably accompany such attempts at organized communal living were mirth-provoking to Paulding; to
                    his successors in that line of criticism they are spectres of a fearful doom.28
            
            It would be interesting and enlightening if we had Owen's reaction to Paulding's
                    satire. Eden planters today might profit from Owen's answers. The fact remains, however,
                    that Paulding, good Jacksonian Democrat that he was, expressed the basic individualistic attitude of
                    his time. The "force of circumstance" dictated his attitude and directed his pen.
            
               
                  27
                        Ibid., 64-66.
               
                  28 Here, too, Paulding (and his ilk in whatever era ignored the
                        fundamental purposes of Owen's social experimentation. That there was no montony is
                        abundantly proved by the outcome of the experiment. It collapsed, not from too much regularizing
                        but from too little. Ibid., 86.
            
         
         
         
            Editor's Page: Indiana History Teachers Association
            The Indiana history teachers will meet with the Indiana Historical Society in its annual meeting on
                    December 11 in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Since the Historical Society has decided on a one-day session, the history teachers
                    will have only the ten o'clock program which will be followed by a business meeting. The
                    history teachers are invited to attend the luncheon of the Historical Society at twelve noon at the
                    Claypool Hotel.
            The program will include three papers. Holman 
                        Hamilton
                     of Fort 
                        Wayne
                     will read a paper on Zachary Taylor; Professor Robert S. Fletcher, Oberlin College,
                    will read a paper entitled "The Heroic Age of the Social Sciences," and Bert Anson
                    of the James Whitcomb Riley High School of 
                        South Bend
                    , will read a paper on "Lathrop M. Taylor, the Fur Trader." This
                    should be a worth while program.
            The history teachers of the high schools, colleges, and universities are eligible to membership in
                    the Society. Membership entitles one to the Indiana Magazine of History and the
                    publications of the Indiana Historical Society. It is doubtful if one can get so much for so little
                    in any other organization.
            March, 1948, numbers of the Indiana Magazine of History are needed. Because of a
                    growing subscription list, an insufficient number of this issue was printed. The editor will pay for
                    these copies or if you are not preserving a file will be glad to receive them as a gift.
         
         
         
            The Early Years of Lathrop M. Taylor, The Fur Trader
            
                    Bert Anson
                    ∗
                
            Lathrop Minor Taylor was the second white man to make 
                        South Bend
                    , Indiana, his permanent home. He was an Indian trader and merchant who took an active
                    part in establishing the town, and whose diverse interests spread his influence to many areas of
                    pioneer life. He was born February 4, 1805, at Clinton in 
                  Oneida
                            County, New York
               . The family
                    moved to Buffalo, 
                        New York
                    , in 1808, and to 
                        Detroit
                     in 1811. The War of 1812 caused their removal to Malden in 
                        Canada
                     early in 1812, and to 
                  Cleveland,
                            Ohio
               , that summer. The family lived in
                    Sandusky, 
                        Ohio
                    , from 1813 to 1817, and in 
                  Montgomery County,
                            Ohio
               , from 1817 to 1823, before they
                    moved to Fort 
                        Wayne
                     in 1823. One of the daughters, Eliza, soon married Samuel Hanna, an agent of the
                    American Fur Company. Young Taylor became a clerk for his brother-in-law.1
            
            His later career may be divided into distinctive periods of business activity and can be understood
                    more easily by briefly introducing its general course. The first business period was that in which
                    Taylor was a clerk of S. Hanna and Company of Fort 
                        Wayne
                     in charge of a trading post at the south bend of the St. Joseph
                    River. He transacted business with the neighboring Indian bands, sent outfits to trade
                    for furs among bands farther removed from him, and supplied a few necessities to other white traders
                    and squatters of the area. His post was not a significant one for its financial returns. The post
                    was established to reach Indians who no longer came to Fort 
                        Wayne
                     or were being contacted by other traders. More important, Samuel Hanna was interested
                    in the opening of northern Indiana to white settlers. The station must then be considered as an
                    infiltration move, and Taylor as an advance agent to prepare for white settlement. Taylor 
                  
                     ∗ Bert Anson is an instructor at James Whitcomb Riley High
                            School, 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana. This article is a revised chapter of a master's thesis at
                            Indiana University, 1947, which was written under the direction of John D. Barnhart.
                  
                     1
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Daily Tribune, August 30, 1892. This obituary of
                            Colonel Taylor was the source used for his biographies in several county histories.
               
                     was an excellent agent for this purpose, and Hanna and Company
                    shared in the benefits from his farsightedness.
            Taylor served a satisfactory term of apprenticeship from 1827 to 1831. He was rewarded with a
                    partnership in the 
                        South Bend
                     store, which was then called Hanna and Taylor, but not in the main store of the
                    company, which was located in Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . He was given greater financial freedom to exercise his own initiative, while still
                    able to call on the resources and influence of Hanna and Company. He continued to expand his
                    business, while taking a leading part in the community. The community future was an enterprise for
                    him, for his establishment's future depended on the growth of 
                        South Bend
                    . His land investments and good will were dependent on the white immigration because of
                    the prospective end of his primary Indian trade. That trade was still important, but a progressive
                    businessman would not depend on its continuance for very many years.
            The partnership of Hanna and Taylor was ended in 1836. Hanna may have decided that it was time to
                    consolidate his interests closer to Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . We know that the friendship and assistance continued on each side. Hanna continued to
                    share in the returns from some of the real estate investments until 1852 and to interest himself in
                    Taylor's affairs.
            The Panic of 1837 came soon after the firm's name was changed to The L. M. Taylor Store.
                    This was a period of severe struggle to find markets in which to buy at the most advantageous prices
                    and to collect on the credit sales made in the past. Taylor was so successful that he emerged in a
                    stronger financial position than he had occupied before the panic. He owed much of his success to
                    profits from fur trade and the certainty of collection of Indian accounts by the 
                        United States
                     treaties with the Indians. A movement to bring a bank to 
                        South Bend
                     was an effort for financial survival. He relinquished the public offices of County
                    Clerk and Recorder that he had held, after attempting unsuccessfully to gain re-election to the
                    office of Clerk of the Circuit Court.
            A careful inventory in 1841 showed that he had survived the panic, and he once more interested
                    himself in community affairs. Railroad building was again possible. Taylor was an active leader but
                    was defeated in a factional  struggle for control of railway
                    routes in 1847. He sold his store and stock of goods to his brother, E. Pitts Taylor, a few months
                    later.
            The final chapter in his business career extended from 1847 to 1856, when he retired. He operated as
                    an independent fur buyer and handled more furs than before but without the other lines of the
                    general merchant. Despite the Potawatomi removals of 1838 and 1840, there were still Indian bands,
                    especially on the Kankakee River, and the white settlers added to the
                    winter's fur catch. The peak years of his fur trade were 1851 to 1853.
            Taylor was retired from 1856 to his death in 1892. He took no part in civic or business affairs
                    except to manage his estate. This was probably composed of some farm real estate and rental
                    properties in 
                        South Bend
                    . It was supposed to be modest and appears to have been well distributed and concealed.
                    He was content to be regarded as a survivor of the pioneer days.
            ∗ ∗ ∗ ∗ ∗
            Taylor was not the first trader or white resident to locate at the south bend of the St.
                        Joseph River. Antoine Leclare became the first resident of the St. Joseph
                        Valley when he settled a few miles up the river from the site of Fort 
                        St. Joseph
                     in 1781, soon after the fort was destroyed by Spaniards. He remained until 1800. He
                    married an Indian, bought furs, and practiced his blacksmithing trade. About 1791, William Burnett
                    of 
                        New Jersey
                     built a warehouse near the mouth of the St. Joseph River. He was
                    known to have been at 
                        St. Joseph
                     as late as 1804. Joseph Bertrand located on the river opposite the present town of
                    Bertrand in 1808. This was just below the mouth of Pokagon's Branch, near the crossing of
                    the Great Sauk Trail. He married an Indian girl, Madeline, the daughter of the Potawatomi chief,
                    Topenebee. He was the agent of the American Fur Company for a time. He died in 
                        Kansas
                     in 1860, but there is no accurate date for his removal. Pierre Frieschutz Navarre was
                    the next resident of the valley and the first at the south bend of the river. He was sent there in
                    1820 as the agent of the American Fur Company. He remained about a year, sold his agency to Alexis
                    Coquillard, but later returned to 
                    
                        South Bend
                    .2 Coquillard may be regarded as the first permanent settler of 
                        South Bend
                    . He established a trading post for the American Fur Company in 1824.3 Taylor became the second permanent resident and the co-founder with Coquillard of the town
                    of 
                        South Bend
                    .
            In 1827 there were numerous small villages of Potawatomi in northern Indiana and southern 
                        Michigan
                    . Raccoon and Rum Village were within the present site of 
                        South Bend
                    . Others which were close were the villages of Topenebee, Pokagon, Wesaw, Chebass,
                    Moccasin, Weesemo, and Matchkee.4
            
            This was the period in which the 
                        United States
                     acquired most of northern Indiana by treaties with the Indians. The Potawatomi,
                    Chippewa, and 
                        Ottawa
                     at 
                        Chicago
                     on August 29, 1821, had ceded a ten-mile strip across northern Indiana, extending east
                    from a line drawn due north through Rum Village.5 The Potawatomi ceded the
                    corresponding strip west of Rum Village on October 16, 1826, at a treaty made near the mouth of the
                        Mississinewa.6 The Indian title, therefore, was ceded first to the north
                    half of 
                        St. Joseph County
                    . The southeast part of the county was included in the treaty cession at Carey Mission
                    on September 20, 1828. The Potawatomi made their last large cession on October 27, 1832, at 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , of the land between the Wabash River grants and the strip ceded
                    in 1826. This included the southwest part of 
                        St. Joseph County
                    .7 The area between the Carey Mission cession and the cession of
                    October 27, 1832, is that of the present area of Marshall, 
                        Kosciusko
                    , and 
                        Wabash
                     counties, which included many of the Indian bands which traded with Taylor's
                    agents. The Potawatomi ceded it at 
                  
                     2 Timothy E. Howard, A Histo of 
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Count Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1907), I, 128-132; George A. Baker, The 
                                    St. Joseph
                                -Kankakee Portage (
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 1899). Baker was secretary of the Northern Indiana Historical
                            Society, of which Timothy E. Howard and David R. Leeper were presidents.
                  
                     3 Taylor Memorandum, The Taylor Collection, Northern Indiana
                            Historical Society, 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana. The histories of 
                                St. Joseph County
                             also give 1822 and 1823 for the date of Couillard's settlement. M. G.
                            Coquillard, Alexis Coquaillard (
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 1930), contains most of the material on Coquillard.
                  
                     4 David R. Leeper, Some Early Local Footprints (
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, 1898), Series III, 4. Series III was reprinted from the 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Daily Times, March 28, 1898.
                  
                     5
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, VII, 218-221.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., 295-299.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 399-403.
               
                    
                    
                        Tippecanoe
                     on October 26, 1832.8 The 
                        Tippecanoe
                     Treaty of 1832 was actually a multiple affair of three treaties made on October 20, 26,
                    and 27.
            The peak of Indian trade at Fort 
                        Wayne
                     had passed9 when the young Taylor was first sent to the south bend
                    of the St. Joseph River to establish a trading station, a position similar to
                    that given to two of Samuel Hanna's brothers.10 Hanna and Company which
                    was owned by Hanna, James Barnett, and Allen 
                        Hamilton
                     of Fort 
                        Wayne
                     had built a substantial business. Taylor arrived at the south bend on September 25,
                    1827, to establish a trading station for that company, and he soon demonstrated his aptitude.11
            
            Taylor followed the system of maintaining a permanent location while supplying agents who traveled to
                    the Indian villages at their own risk. This is best illustrated by a note in the sales book:
                    "Navarre selling the goods to the Pottawatomies. To account to Taylor for the goods at
                    stated prices, but selling them at his own discretion for his profit."12 The station was a retail outlet of a diverse line of merchandise. The first outfit entered
                    in Ledger A, 1827, is that of Edward Smith, copied in Table I. It illustrates the goods stocked by
                    the store, as well as that which was supplied to the Indians. It also illustrates the degree to
                    which the Indians had adopted white people's commodities. There were several pairs of
                    blankets, graded as to quality by "points," probably thickness. List cloth is
                    frequently mentioned in Taylor's invoices but without explanation of its quality or use.
                    The Indians had apparently acquired a preference for cotton clothing and a willingness to sew, as
                    seen from the quantity of calico, shirting, and other cloth carried. There was the usual assortment
                    of decorative objects of high price, but the larger part of the goods was utilitarian.
            Smith was apparently successful in his trading, for his first outfit was supplied in the same winter
                    season by additions 
                  
                     8
                            Ibid., 394-397.
                  
                     9 Nellie A. Robertson and Dorothy Riker (ede.) The John
                                Tipton Papers, in the Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, (1916-), XXIV-XXVI (1942) XXIV, 10.
                  
                     10 G. W. Wood, The Life and Character of Honorable Samuel
                                Hanna (Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, 1860), 15. This biographical sketch was printed in Wallace A. Brice,
                                History of Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                
                      (Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Indiana, 1868).
                  
                     11
                            
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana, Daily Tribune, August 30, 1892.
                  
                     12 Taylor Sales Book, 1833-1855, pp. 33-56.
               
                    
                    
                  TABLE I Edward Smith Dr On Commission (from Hanna and Company Ledger A, 1827, p. 20.)
                  
                     December 16, 1827
                     To 1 pr.
                     3 pt Blanketts
                     
                     9041/2
                  
                  
                     
                     " 1 pr.
                     21/2 pt Blanketts
                     
                     6501/2
                  
                  
                     
                     " 1 pr.
                     2 pt Blanketts
                     
                     466
                  
                  
                     
                     " 1 pr.
                     11/2 pt Blanketts
                     
                     349
                  
                  
                     
                     " 1 pr.
                     1 pt Blanketts
                     
                     332
                  
                  
                     No. 27
                     " 13/4
                     gray List Cloth
                     3.191/2
                     558
                  
                  
                     No. 33
                     " 13/4
                     yds List Cloth
                     2.36
                     4.15
                  
                  
                     No. 17
                     " 13/4 yds
                     White List cloth
                     2.46
                     4.31
                  
                  
                     No. 62
                     "13/2 yds
                     White List cloth
                     1.57
                     2.74
                  
                  
                     
                     " 31/2 yds
                     Shrowding
                     1.80
                     630
                  
                  
                     
                     " 2 yds
                     Blue Molton
                     .62
                     1.24
                  
                  
                     
                     " 272/4 yds
                     White Molton
                     .62
                     124
                  
                  
                     
                     " 273/4 yds
                     Blue Callico
                     .32
                     888
                  
                  
                     
                     " 12 yds
                     Stripe Fast Cotton
                     .183/4
                     225
                  
                  
                     
                     " 141/2 yds
                     Bleached Shirting
                     .183/4
                     271
                  
                  
                     
                     " 28
                     plad cotton
                     .183/4
                     525
                  
                  
                     
                     " 1
                     green shawl
                     1.32
                     132
                  
                  
                     
                     " 2
                     Red shawls
                     1.05
                     210
                  
                  
                     
                     " 3
                     shawls
                     .84
                     252
                  
                  
                     
                     " 4
                     Blue Hankerchiefs
                     .29
                     117
                  
                  
                     
                     " 3
                     pr. Ribbon
                     1.121/2
                     3371/2
                  
                  
                     
                     " 4
                     cock Feathers
                     .371/2
                     150
                  
                  
                     
                     " 2
                     Ostridge Feathers
                     1.051/2
                     211
                  
                  
                     
                     " 2
                     Fox tail plums
                     .50
                     100
                  
                  
                     
                     " 3 doz.
                     Cut glass beads
                     .75
                     225
                  
                  
                     
                     " 1 Card
                     1 Short Neglasses
                     
                     1121/2
                  
                  
                     
                     " 1/2 doz.
                     Scalping Knives
                     2.29
                     1121/2
                  
                  
                     No. 2
                     " 2
                     Broaches
                     1.371/2
                     2.76
                  
                  
                     No. 3
                     " 2
                     die
                     1.121/2
                     225
                  
                  
                     No. 5
                     " 4
                     "
                     .30
                     1.20
                  
                  
                     No. 7
                     "12
                     "
                     .183/4
                     225
                  
                  
                     
                     " 24
                     Pr. Earbobbs
                     .12
                     288
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     
                     
                     10258
                  
                until he was charged with a total of $220.64 for merchandise. He balanced his
                    account in January, February, and April of 1828 by returning furs and maple
                    "Shugar," secured from the Indians, and a small amount of unsold goods. The Alex
                    Provonsile outfit took out a total of $221.11 in March, 1828, and returned in April with
                    the same products as had Smith.13 The Shi-i-no outfit was stocked with
                    $49.67 
                  
                     13 S. Hanna and Company Ledger A, 1827-1828, pp. 20-21. The S. Hanna
                            and Company Ledgers, L. M. Taylor, Clerk, are a part of the Taylor Collection in the
                            possession of the Northern Indiana Historical Society, 
                                South Bend
                            , Indiana.
               
                     in trade goods on commission, but there is no account of his
                    return. The Kankakee outfit was not charged with goods taken on commission, but there was an invoice
                    of $583.48 of unsold goods returned in May, 1828.14
            
            The "Inventory at end of First Winter" of Taylor's station (see Table II)
                    shows the accounting made by Taylor 
                  TABLE II Inventory at end of First Winter Inward St. Josephs Station From S. Hanna and
                            Company, Invoice Book, 1827-1828, pp. 1-22.
                  
                     Total
                     to March 18, 1828
                     $1,825.66
                  
                  
                     Invoices of Kankakee Outfit of goods returned—May 1828
                     583.48
                  
                  
                     Inventory of 
                                    St. Joseph
                                 Outfit, July 1, 1828
                     2,779.27
                  
                  
                     Goods
                     $1,974.68
                     
                  
                  
                     House
                     84.00
                     
                  
                  
                     Indian Credits, acc'ts
                     89.00
                     
                  
                  
                     White acct's
                     367.46
                     
                  
                  
                     Pd. Navarre
                     100.00
                     
                  
                  
                     Kankakee Acc't
                     91.08
                     
                  
                  
                     White notes
                     83.01
                     
                  
                  
                     Incidentals
                     [10.14]
                     $2,799.27
                  
                  
                     
                     September 22, 1828
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     from Day Book A
                     
                  
                  
                     Stock Invoice
                     $2,622.28
                     
                  
                  
                     Stock in 
                                    New York
                                
                     
                     788.61
                     
                  
                  
                     Debit in Ft. 
                                    Wayne
                                
                     
                     449.70 Settled
                     
                  
                  
                     Credit in Ft. 
                                    Wayne
                                
                     
                     2,199.07
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     June 1, 1829
                     
                  
                to his employers for his first winter's business. The items are of especial
                    interest, for they indicate the manner in which the merchant conducted his business. There was a
                    surprisingly large stock of goods stored in Taylor's little building. The difficulties of
                    transportation required that a business whose important seasons were the fall and the spring should
                    stock its shelves during the summer months. Apparently Taylor was able to get only a limited supply
                    of articles from Fort 
                        Wayne
                     after his season started. S. Hanna and Company received all the goods from the 
                        St. Joseph
                     station and credited the sums to the station's account. This bookkeeping was
                    to avoid unnecessary transfers of cash and simplify wholesale buying. The stock in 
                        New York
                     was 
                  
                     14 S. Hanna and Company Invoice Book, 1827-1828, pp. 1-8.
               
                     probably for supplies from the usual sources, to be sent
                    directly to Taylor via the Great Lakes and St. Joseph River, rather than
                    transshipped by the way of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    .
            The amount of the notes and accounts accumulated by the few whites of the area is indicative of
                    pioneer business methods. Accounts were purchases charged to the buyer for future collection. Notes
                    were time payments, usually for six months at ten per cent interest. They could be renewed for
                    years. Notes were used for large purchases and were sometimes used as currency. Drafts on firms were
                    more commonly used for currency, however. Lewis E. Atherton clearly states some of the evils of
                    credit sales by the western merchants,15 and Taylor's Letters and
                    Orders show many attempts to collect bad debts.
            The Indian accounts were small and resulted from Taylor's local trade at 
                        South Bend
                    . This indicates the wisdom of dealing with the Indians through outfits which assumed
                    the risk of collection. As Taylor's business expanded he sent his own agents in charge of
                    his goods, and the duty of collection then became Taylor's problem. This procedure will be
                    explained in a study of the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     treaty.
            
               TABLE III Furs Forwarded to Ft. 
                            Wayne
                        , May 12,1828. From S. Hanna and Company, Ledger A, 1.
               
                  1536 Muskrat
                  18 Wild Cat
               
               
                  100 Mink
                  93 Deer Skins
               
               
                  1 Otter
                  2 "Bare"
               
               
                  3 Fisher
                  3 Cubs Skins
               
               
                  1 Martin
                  5 Wolf Skins
               
               
                  3 Red Fox
                  15 Muskrat
               
               
                  19 Grey Fox
                  3 Dozen Rabbit
               
               
                  416 Raccoon
                  681 lb. "Shugar"
               
               
                  Paid Navarre for furs $100.00
               
               
                  Kankakee Outfit account $91.071/4
               
            
            This was not a large shipment of furs, but is the only one given in the ledgers, daybooks, or invoice
                    book, and is probably a complete record. Taylor competed with an established trader, Coquillard, and
                    did well to acquire this many furs. He did not get many furs directly from the 
                        South Bend
                    
                    
                  
                     15 Lewis E. Atherton. The Pioneer Merchant in
                            Mid-America in the University of 
                                Missouri
                            
                            Studies (
                        Columbia, Missouri
                     , 1926-), XIV, NO. 2 (1939) pp.
                            102-116.
               
                     area, for Smith, Provonsile, and Shi-i-no had taken outfits to
                    the bands, and the sum paid Navarre was for furs which Taylor could not secure directly from the
                    Indians. It is plain that the 
                        St. Joseph
                     station had a modest beginning in which it secured the less desirable pelts. It was a
                    beginning, which could be developed by establishing successful relationships with the Indians and
                    their trusted traders, such as Navarre. He was also engaged in trade with the white squatters of the
                    county, and in formulating plans for the future, when treaties would permit white land entries.
            Taylor sent fifteen packs of furs to Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , April 16, 1828. There is no record of the price credited for them or the contents of
                    the packs. This may have been the amount of furs accumulated to that time since later accounts show
                    that April and May were the months in which the winter's business was concluded.
            It is very difficult to assemble a satisfactory valuation of Taylor's goods, due to the
                    variation in quality. In 1841 the store carried thirteen grades of red flannel. The prices paid for
                    furs depended on many factors: the season when the animal was taken, the expertness of
                    "dressing" the skin,16 and finally the bargaining abilities of
                    the hunter.17 The price received by the hunter was affected by the number of
                    times his product paid a middleman's commission. The outfit secured the pelt and sold it to
                    the permanent station, which in turn sent it to the parent station and received credit. Then it was
                    resold to the American Fur Company, which transported it to the eastern markets for sale and
                    processing. Taylor later eliminated two of these steps by sending out his own outfits and selling
                    directly to the American Fur Company. This gave him opportunity to make a larger profit, offer
                    higher initial prices, or sell at a lower figure. In return he assumed the risks of theft, accident,
                    competition, and fluctuating prices. His position while agent restricted his methods of buying and
                    marketing. He was quite dependent on the main station at Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , which was the chief wholesale supply source and market.
            Taylor had direct contact with a small number of Indians, 
                  
                     16 Taylor Letters and Orders, 193-194. Most of the skins at this
                            period were Indian dressed, which the traders preferred. Taylor spoke of white handled furs
                            as "no good."
                  
                     17 Atherton, The Pioneer Merchant in Mid-America, in
                            the University of 
                                Missouri
                            
                            Studies, XIV, No. 2, pp. 43-46.
               
                     but there was a considerable amount of whisky sold directly to
                    them. The total in 1827-1828 was sixty-one quarts, fourteen gallons, and one keg.18 The same ledger shows that whites bought a total of ninety-one quarts and six gallons of
                    whisky from January to November, 1828. There were no purchases of whisky during July and August.
                    Several men bought small quantities at regular intervals, others occasional large quantities. The
                    latter were usually men whose names are also given as agents to the Indian bands at a distance from
                    the station. After Taylor became a partner of Hanna and in control of the 
                        South Bend
                     store, there were no sales of whisky directly to Indians.
            It is interesting to conjecture on other purposes which Hanna may have had in starting this station.
                    The treaties of 1821 to 1832 with the Potawatomi and Miami made them less accessible to the Fort 
                        Wayne
                     fur store. The treaties also were made to aid the 
                        Michigan
                     Road and 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie Canal projects. Hanna was one of the champions of internal improvements in
                        Indiana.19 The part he played in the founding of the new town may have been
                    determined before he selected the site for his branch trading post, and he may deserve a great deal
                    of credit for foreseeing the strategic position of the site.
            Taylor's books are not satisfactory for the winter of 1828-1829. Monease (Monis) and
                    Sanscomb took outfits to the Indians in November and settled their accounts in April. The goods were
                    valued at $403.30.20 The invoice of goods at the station was valued
                    at $1,356 on May 23, 1829.21 This total is only slightly less than
                    that of the inventory of 1828, and the volume of business in the two seasons was probably about the
                    same.
            The Chandonnia outfit was charged with $588.33 in trade goods and Indian accounts,
                    November 18, 1829.22 There is no record of the villages he visited. The outfits
                    had evidently traded there the preceding winters, and Chandonnia was to collect previous debts, as
                    well as sell new merchandise and buy furs. No other outfit was recorded.
            
               
                  18 S. Hanna and Company Ledger A, 1827-1828.
               
                  19 Wood, Life and Character of Honorable Samuel Hanna,
                        16-21.
               
                  20 S. Hanna and Company Invoice Book, 1828-1833, pp. 160-167.
               
                  21
                        Ibid., 19.
               
                  22
                        Ibid., 168-177.
            
            
            The inventory of May 13, 1830, is useful.
            
               
                  Credit from Hanna
                  $2,769.85
               
               
                  Debit to Fort 
                                Wayne
                            
                  
                  967.36
               
               
                  Debit to Cyrus Taber
                  80.75
               
               
                  Accounts due—White
                  311.82
               
               
                  Accounts due—Indian
                  218.34
               
               
                  Inventory of stock
                  1,590.04
               
            
            The stock of goods for the next season was not yet purchased, so that Taylor's credit was
                    probably at its maximum. The debits were undoubtedly for goods purchased to replenish stocks during
                    the winter season and not yet deducted from Taylor's credit balance. Cyrus Taber had gone
                    to 
                        Logansport
                     as a partner of Allen 
                        Hamilton
                    .23 This item in the inventory means that he occasionally supplied
                    goods to Taylor to replace shortages due to the custom of annual buying from wholesale houses.
            The credit extended to whites had decreased from the amount of 1828. The logical explanation is that
                    Taylor found collection difficult and attempted to limit credit sales. He could depend on his
                    familiarity with the settlers of the area after a three-year period. He did not abandon credit
                    sales, as later inventories show.
            
               TABLE IV Furs Sold by 
                            St. Joseph
                         Outfit to American Fur Company May 9, 1830.
               1829-1830
               
                  5-9-30
               
               
                  American Fur Company
                  Bought from 
                                St. Joseph
                             outfit.
               
               
                  893 Bear Skins
                  5/
                  
                  433.12%
               
               
                  1112 Raccoon
                  3/
                  
                  492.00
               
               
                  28 Gray Fox
                  3/
                  9.75
                  
               
               
                  20 Otter
                  6.00
                  100.00
                  
               
               
                  19 Wild Cat
                  .40
                  7.60
                  
               
               
                  8 Fisher
                  8/
                  8.00
                  
               
               
                  63 Mink
                  .40
                  25.20
                  
               
               
                  
                  
                  150.66
                  
               
            
            
               
                  Discount 5% 7.52
                  143.031/2
               
               
                  Grey's bill of Furs
                  17.70
               
               
                  Green's " " "
                  20.21
               
               
                  Malin and Lacey—2 Bills
                  7.00
               
               
                  Cash for 1 Fisher and 1 raccoon
                  1.00
               
               
                  2 "Barre" skins 6 cub
                  14.00
               
               
                  
                  1128.07
               
            
            
               
                  23 Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton Papers, in the
                        Indiana His torical Collections, XXIV, 507.
            
            
            Beaver skins were not a part of the fur trade of Indiana in 1830, and Taylor did not have an
                    opportunity to secure them. Deer, raccoon, and bear skins were still secured in large quantities. Of
                    the total value $915.12 was from bear and deer alone. This does not account for the
                    complete take of the season, as it does not include muskrat. The most significant features of this
                    list of furs is that it appears to be a transaction made directly between the American Fur Company
                    and Taylor, and that the less desirable varieties of skins were discounted five per cent.
            Taylor did not record previous fur sales in this manner. He may have been instructed to ship these
                    furs down the St. Joseph River and around the Great Lakes to 
                        Detroit
                    . This would eliminate the overland haul to Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . William Brewster or Ramsey Crooks of 
                        Detroit
                     bought most of Taylor's furs in the 1830's.24
            
            The year 1830 was of great importance to the 
                        South Bend
                     area. Taylor was very active in events in the community. 
                        St. Joseph County
                     was formed in January, 1830.25 Taylor was appointed postmaster of
                    Southold, the name first given to the trading post, June 6, 1830.26 An election,
                    held August 1, gave Taylor the offices of County Recorder and Clerk of the Circuit Court.27 Taylor and Coquillard were bondsmen for William Brookfield as agent of the
                    county to locate the county seat and to sell lots.28 The name of the settlement
                    was changed from Southold to 
                        South Bend
                     October 18, 1830,29 and Taylor's commission as postmaster
                    was reissued the next year.
            
               
                        Brookfield
                     had located a site for the county seat several miles northwest of 
                        South Bend
                    's present location, at the site of the portage, and on land owned by
                        himself.30 One hundred twenty-eight citizens petitioned the state
                    legislature to relocate the county seat at 
                        South Bend
                    .31 This was a 
                  
                     24 Taylor Letters and Orders, 188.
                  
                     25
                            Laws of the State of Indiana, 1829-1830, pp. 28-29.
                  
                     26 Official Notice of Taylor's Appointment as Postmaster of
                            Southold.
                  
                     27Taylor's Commission as County Recorder and Commission as
                            Clerk of Circuit Court.
                  
                     28 Howard, History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                , Indiana, I, 162.
                  
                     29
                            
                                United States
                             Post Office Notice—Change from Southold to 
                                South Bend
                            .
                  
                     30 Howard, History of 
                                    St. Joseph County
                                , Indiana, I, 173.
                  
                     31 Taylor Memorandum.
               
                     vital affair to Hanna and Company. It can be understood by a
                    study of the "Gebo affair."
            A part of the original area of 
                        South Bend
                     was obtained by Taylor from Peter Gebo (Jebo, Geboo) in 1830.32
                    There is no detailed account of the transaction, but the Taylor books give enough information to
                    stimulate speculation. This was undoubtedly one of Taylor's most important business
                    transactions and most profitable. It has a definite influence on the future settlement of northern
                    Indiana. Hanna and Company Ledgers A and B are the only ones showing accounts with Gebo. The time
                    extended from October 20, 1828, to April, 1830.33 In this period Gebo was
                    debited $189.10 and credited with the same amount. Credits consisted chiefly of ear
                    wheels, earbobs, and broaches brought to Taylor and repair of the same kind of articles. March 24,
                    1828, he sold Taylor four hundred pairs of earbobs. There are other similar entries. It appears
                    probable that he was a minor agent to the local Indian bands, but there were no fur transactions.
                    The most important items in the Gebo account are the whisky debits and the demand note for
                    $48.33 by which the account was balanced August 14, 1829. There is no clear record of the
                    original transaction by which Taylor secured the title from Gebo.
            Gebo bought the following whisky from Taylor during the eighteen-months period: 8 pints, 13 quarts, 1
                    gallon, 20 bottles—pint and quart—and 4 pints of wine. This was not a great
                    amount when compared to that purchased by some white individuals and may have been for his own
                    business. There is no trace of Gebo in the records after the compromise was reached with Elisha B.
                    Harris in 1832.
            Taylor was given financial backing by the partners of Hanna and Company as he and Coquillard laid out
                    the new town site on March 8, 1831,34 and made the necessary donations to
                    attract support.35 After the project had progressed through its preliminary
                    stages and considerable money had been expended, Taylor's claim was disputed and he was
                    unable to get title from the government. Finally a compromise 
                  
                     32 Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton Papers, in
                            the Indiana Historical Collections, XXV, 478-479.
                  
                     33 S. Hanna and Company Ledger B, 1828-1832, pp. 104-112.
                  
                     34 Taylor Memorandum.
                  
                     35 Bonds filed with the County Clerk to establish county seat at 
                                South Bend
                             and Donation lists.
               
                     was reached which left Taylor in possession. The real estate
                    book shows Taylor's own record of the transactions. See Table V.
            The 
                  
                            Tipton
                         Papers give a clear account of the dispute. Hanna wrote to General John
                    Tipton, then 
                        United States
                     Senator from Indiana, on December 25, 1831, and again on March 22, 1832.36 Hanna stated that the Ewings had dishonestly secured a rival claim from Gebo. Harris
                    and others had later taken over the Ewing's support of Gebo. Hanna urged 
                        Tipton
                     to use his influence to get Taylor's claim allowed and patented. David H.
                    Colerick wrote to 
                        Tipton
                     on June 16, 1832,37 and Hanna again wrote on July 5.38 Colerick wrote July 18 insisting that Taylor be supported. The matter was evidently of
                    concern in 
                        South Bend
                     as Colerick states 
                  TABLE V Taylor, Real Estate, 1826-55, p. 11 
                                South Bend
                             Purchased of 
                                United States
                            
                  
                  
                     1830
                     The S. 1/2 N.W. Sec. 12 T 37, R 2 E. 71 A
                     89.63
                  
                  
                     
                     Ceded the undivided half, Patent in Sam Hanna hands Mar.
                     
                  
                  
                     1831
                     to Alexes Coquillard and in consideration filed in Courtin- in a case with
                                John-Bequette— E.B. Harris
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     of his deed to me for the undivided half of the North half of North West Qu. Sec. Sec.
                                12 T. 37 R. 2 East by deed also 3—1832, and gave Coquillard
                     125.00
                  
                  
                     1831
                     Bot of Benj. Potter, South part
                     
                  
                  
                     Mar. 18
                     of South West Fractional Qu. Sec. 1, T 37, R 2 E.
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     containing 44 50/100 acres
                     380.00
                  
                  
                     
                     Paid Gebo to relinquish title
                     1600.00
                  
                  
                     
                     Paid to secure County seat all—
                     600.00
                  
                  
                     
                     Expense laying out—
                     130.35
                  
                  
                     
                     Laid out town of 
                                    South Bend
                                
                     
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     On the above ground Mar. 28,1831.
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     Making 408 lots numbered from 1 to 408
                     
                  
                  
                     
                     
                     2824.98
                  
                  
                     
                     Sales out of the above by Lathrop M. Taylor and A. Coquillard
                  
               
                    
                  
                     36 Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton Papers, in
                            the Indiana Historical Collections, XXV, 478-479, 557-558.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., 628-629.
                  
                     38
                            Ibid., 661-662.
               
                     that Harris was bringing a $3,500 suit against
                    Coquillard for "tarring & feathering his back & legs."39
            
            Finally Colerick and James Barnett wrote to 
                        Tipton
                     in August that the matter was settled.40 Barnett and his friends
                    paid to Harris, Gebo, and John Bequette twelve hundred dollars in cash and ceded four lots to them.
                    Taylor was to receive the patent. Lots 34, 162, and 185 are listed for Gebo, but the fourth lot is
                    not on the record.41 The record shows that it was an involved process to secure
                    the land, but the 408 lots sold finally yielded a return of $21,076.35 to the
                        partners.42
            
            Taylor found time from his community activities to expand his store's volume of business.
                    His inventory made in the spring of 1831 shows this expansion.
            
               Inventory of May, 1831 From S. Hanna and Company Invoice Book.
               
                  Stock of goods
                  $1,507.00
                  
               
               
                  Silver works
                  486.00
                  
               
               
                  Cash
                  312.00
                  
               
               
                  White Accounts
                  414.65
                  193.22 (bad)
               
               
                  Indian Accounts
                  429.92
                  100.56 (bad)
               
               
                  Notes
                  845.21
                  138.04 (bad)
               
               
                  Hanna debit to 
                                St. Joseph
                             Outfit
                  2,670.65
                  June 1, 1830
               
               
                  
                  Purchased (July 30, 1831)
               
               
                  Hanna
                  $736.88
                  
               
               
                  
                  137.60
                  
               
               
                  
                  679.12
                  
               
               
                  
                  1,051.64
                  
               
               
                  
                  47.60
                  
               
               
                  
                  501.36
                  
               
               
                  Coquillard (American Fur Company)
                  214.47
                  
               
               
                  Auiberg
                  67.18
                  
               
               
                  Kercheval
                  626.44
                  
               
               
                  Mason
                  216.00
                  
               
               
                  Wood
                  271.27
                  
               
               
                  Biquette
                  486.06
                  
               
               
                  Taber
                  83.73
                  
               
               
                  
                  $4,908.25
                  
               
            
            
               
                  39
                        Ibid., 660.
               
                  40
                        Ibid., 691-693, see 692.
               
                  41 Alex Coquillard—L. M. Taylor, Sales Book of Samuel Hanna,
                        1830-1832.
               
                  42 Taylor Real Estate, 126, 130-131. The best summary of the division of
                        returns from the 
                            South Bend
                         lots IS on a loose paper in this book.
            
            
            The inventory was followed by a note. "The aforesaid acct's were settled of this
                    day by L. M. Taylor and paid over to Hanna and Company and the residue that is uncollected reverts
                    to Hanna and Taylor"—Sept. 23, 1831.43
            
            Taylor had reached the end of his initial period in 
                        South Bend
                     and became a partner in the local store. A brief comparison with the spring inventory
                    of 1828 shows: the store had made considerable expansion in goods stocked; the yearly credit with
                    Hanna was more than doubled; there were now several sources of wholesale supply in addition to Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , and credit extension was becoming large. A more detailed examination of this inventory
                    can be made. The silverworks on hand were for use in earbobs, broaches, arm bands, and other
                    trinkets. Taylor sold these to the Indians. He also bought other trinkets from them after they had
                    added their own workmanship. Gebo collected these trinkets by the hundreds for sale to Taylor and
                    was hired to repair many of them. Taylor then resold the silverworks to Indians of other villages.
                    The 
                        South Bend
                     Historical Museum has many samples of this silverwork.
            The inventory lists about one-half of the white accounts as "bad." These were
                    probably cases where credit was given to people who then migrated without leaving any clue to the
                    new address. It is evident from his letters and orders that Taylor traced many delinquent debtors to
                    various parts of Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                        Ohio
                     and secured court judgments. The Indian accounts were usually viewed in a liberal
                    manner by the government agents. Taylor was later called upon to prove some of his Indian accounts
                    and could not do so but this occurred only once, and the incident is explained in connection with
                    General William B. Mitchell's report of September 1, 1840. Taylor had forwarded sufficient
                    merchandise to Hanna to build up a credit of $2,670.65 by July 30, 1831. He purchased
                    $3,053.10 in new goods from Hanna the next month to begin the fall season with a balance
                    in the home company's favor. The other purchases were of articles which Hanna could not
                    supply from his Fort 
                        Wayne
                     stock or which could be transported more easily to 
                        South Bend
                     from other cities. Most of these transactions were with 
                        St. Joseph
                     or 
                        Detroit
                     merchants, although Taber was located in 
                        Logansport
                    .
            
               
                  43 S. Hanna and Company Invoice Book, 1827-1828, p. 66.
            
            
            The most important influence on Taylor's business career was the increased white population
                    due to the sale of public lands begun in 1830. This would alter his lines of merchandise and
                    products secured in exchange. The whites required many articles which he had not stocked for the
                    Indian trade, their products would likewise be more diversified. Taylor required a larger stock of
                    goods, more sources of supply, and more markets.
            Taylor had been a leader in the establishment of 
                        South Bend
                    . "In many cases merchants took the lead in establishing towns, motivated by
                    the desire either to follow frontier trade west or to profit from the sale of town lots….
                    Possessing money, marked as leading citizens, and realizing that support of community undertakings
                    was a business asset, the merchant class bore the brunt of such enterprises in towns all over the
                    middle West."44 These quotations are applicable to S. Hanna and Company
                    and to L. M. Taylor.
            Hanna was evidently satisfied that his clerk had demonstrated his ability during 1827-1831. He had
                    become a leader in the internal improvement and banking movements and entered politics on these
                        platforms.45 His later career was in politics, banking, and road
                    construction. His stores were of minor importance.46
            
            
               
                  44 Atherton, The Pioneer Merchant in Mid-America, in the
                        University of 
                            Missouri
                        
                        Studies, XIV, No. 2, p. 9, 29.
               
                  45 Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton Papers, in the
                        Indiana Historical Collections, XXV, 677-678. Hanna was elected to the State
                        Senate in 1832. He was opposed by 
                            Tipton
                        's friends.
               
                  46 Wood, Life and Character of Honorable Samuel Hanna,
                        16-44.
            
         
         
         
            
               Mississippi Valley Historical Association Membership Campaign
            The Mississippi Valley Historical Association is conducting a campaign for new
                    members and has divided the 
                        United States
                     into twelve zones. Indiana and 
                        Michigan
                     constitute zone eight.
            There are advantages of holding membership in this Association, one of which is the receipt of the
                        
                  Mississippi Valley Historical Review free. The historical
                    periodicals to which an individual subscribes are a measure of his true interest in history. Among
                    those which are most valuable to historians of the 
                        United States
                    , the 
                  Mississippi Valley Historical Review ranks
                    first. History teachers in universities, colleges, and high schools, graduate students, and many
                    other persons interested in the development of the 
                        United States
                     will find in this Review much of interest and much to keep their
                    knowledge up to date.
            The annual dues for membership in the Association are five dollars. Students may become members of
                    the Association by paying only three dollars per year. A student who applies for such membership
                    must be certified by his instructor.
            If any of the readers of the Indiana Magazine of History are interested in becoming
                    members of the Mississippi Valley Historical Association, please write to
                    Elfrieda Lang, Indiana Magazine of History, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, who is in charge of zone eight.
         
         
         
            Lew Wallace, Romantic
            
                    John D. Forbes
                    ∗
                
            Even if Lew Wallace had not been a most vital and interesting personality in his own right, the
                    recent popularity of fictional treatments of the life of Christ would warrant our taking another
                    look at the most celebrated writer of this genre upon our shores.1
            
            But Ben Hur was only one incident. The challenge posed by Wallace's
                    crowded and eventful life is to find the motivating force, the source of the intense drive behind
                    his varied career. To discover that force, the first step was to seek out his old haunts, explore
                    the physical surroundings of his base of operations, and interview his surviving friends and
                    neighbors. The next step was to examine the readily available materials on his life including his
                    unfinished posthumous autobiography and look for a common denominator of motivation in the events
                    and actions. It also was helpful to find Wallace's own brief unpublished manuscript
                    biography of his wife which contains some revealing passages about its author.2
            
            There are still residents of Wallace's home town of Craw-fordsville, Indiana, who recall the
                    old gentleman with the oddly thrust forward mustache and beard. They remember his stiff military
                    bearing and his imposing appearance on Sunday morning striding up the steps of the Methodist church
                    wearing the dark, broad-brimmed fedora of a Union veteran with a full, white-lined cloak flowing and
                    swirling off his rigid shoulders.3
            
            They see him as he sat under his favorite shade tree in the summer months clad in cool white linens
                    or pongee, or perched on the board fence that bounded his property fighting the Civil War all over
                    again with the town's G.A.R. pensioners. They tell how he would become so carried away by
                    his critique of the old campaigns that he would forget meal times, and 
                  
                     ∗ Dr. John D. Forbes is associate professor of history and
                            fine arts at 
                                Wabash
                             College, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 Lloyd C. Douglas, The Robe (
                                Boston
                            , 1942); Robert Graves, King Jesus (
                                New York
                            , 1946).
                  
                     2 Lew Wallace, Biography of Susan E. Wallace, a four-page undated
                            manuscript reproduced in photostat in the Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     3 Recalled in conversation with Miss Jessie Watson, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, October, 1946.
               
                     his wife would have to dispatch a domestic from the house to go
                    and fetch him to dinner.4
            
            It is difficult for these observers to be entirely dispassionate about Wallace. They tend to think of
                    him as an institution rather than a person. As far back as they can recall, he was the
                    town's first citizen and chief celebrity. Not many knew him well—he had few
                    intimates—and an aura of idealization compounded of local pride and a convention of nihil nisi bonum obscures the real man. Glimpses of a human Wallace appear only
                    from time to time. An old acquaintance recollects with a chuckle how horrified she was to hear the
                    General curse with eloquent and resounding oaths "after writing so beautifully about the
                    life of Christ." Another recalls his forthrightness on the subject of the bicycle craze.
                    "Monkeys on wheels!" he would snort.5
            
            Some hold that Wallace was aloof, others speak of the affable nods he would bestow all around when he
                    dropped into Muhleisen's saloon for a pick-me-up. Close neighbors agree that, however
                    reserved he might have been to others, he was most gracious to them and most hospitable. The
                    wicker-wrapped bottle was always at hand ready for the refreshment of visiting comrades-in-arms.
                    Wallace had an engaging enthusiasm for showing callers about his estate, calling attention to items
                    of interest with sweeping gestures and discoursing the while with just the faintest suggestion of
                    the cicerone.6
            
            One somber note is present in these recollections of Wallace and that is 
                        Shiloh
                    . This will be considered later.
            With respect to Susan E. Wallace one finds less reticence. Her admirers are alert and on the
                    defensive. As the daughter of one of the richest men in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Major Isaac C. Elston, a successful real estate promoter, and the wife of its most
                    prominent figure, she seems to have surveyed her domain in somewhat the same spirit as her
                    contemporary on the British throne. She outlived by several years her husband who died in 1905 so
                    there are many who remember vividly this frail old lady with the ruffled white parasol being driven
                        
                  
                     4 Recalled in conversation with Mrs. John C. Snyder, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, October, 1946.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid.; recalled in conversation with Samuel Rowland, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, October, 1946.
                  
                     6 Recalled in conversation with Mrs. I. A. Detchon, Mrs. John C.
                            Snyder, and Samuel Rowland all of 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, October, 1946.
               
                     through the streets in her open carriage. Mrs. Wallace would
                    pay formal calls by sending her coachman to the door with a summons to come out and sit with her in
                    the carriage for a few minutes' conversation. She would indicate when the call was
                    terminated. 
                        Crawfordsville
                     is the seat of 
                        Wabash
                     College, and the members of one old professorial family recall with amusement the time
                    Mrs. Wallace was invited to dismount from her equipage and come in to view the wedding presents of a
                    daughter of the house soon to be married. "No, thank you," said Mrs. Wallace,
                    "I have seen the glories of the earth." While generally "all buttoned
                    up," as a neighbor describes her, Mrs. Wallace had expansive moments. At times, she was
                    given to enigmatic utterances and darkly poetic turns of phrase. To a visitor who admired her
                    garden, she observed in a far-away voice, "beautiful, yes, but the trail of the serpent is
                    all about it."7
            
            But Lew Wallace lived too long ago to be recreated satisfactorily from the recollections of those who
                    knew him only in his old age. He was born in 1827, and one should, therefore, look at the events of
                    his life. He had no real calling but was an amateur, at times a singularly gifted one, of half a
                    dozen professions.
            He is best known as a novelist, the author of the long-time best-seller, Ben Hur; A Tale
                        of the Christ, published by Harpers in 1880. Less popular was his earlier work, The Fair God (1873), a fictional treatment of Hernando Cortez's conquest
                    of Mexico based primarily on W. H. Prescott's historical account. Less successful also was
                    the later novel, The Prince of 
                            India
                        ; or Why Constantinople Fell (1893). Wallace described himself as
                    "extremely literary" in the memoir of his wife, but writing was only one of many
                    avocations. He first took it up, he stated in his autobiography, as his "reserve
                    pastime," and he seems to have embraced it with exceptional fervor as an escape from the
                    study of the law. He spent long hours in the distant worlds of his imagination.8
                    The novels were a setting down of these fantasies.
            Lew Wallace was a lawyer though he does not appear to have let the law interfere with his other
                    interests. He read 
                  
                     7 Biography of Susan E. Wallace; Lew Wallace: An
                                Autobiography (2 vols., n.p., n.d.), I, 206; recalled in conversation with Miss A.
                            C. Crane 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana,. September, 1946. See also Anna L. Lingelbach, "Lewis
                            Wallace," in Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1943), XIX, 376-376.
                  
                     8
                            Lew Wallace: An Autobiography, I, 89-90, 91, II, 1003.
               
                     law in his father's office in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and was admitted to the bar in 1849. Shortly thereafter he opened an office in 
                        Covington
                    , Indiana, where he was twice elected prosecuting attorney. In 1853, he moved his office
                    to 
                        Crawfordsville
                     where his wife's parents lived. The feeling today among the older generation
                    of lawyers in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     is summed up by one of them, "Wallace wasn't ever much of a
                    lawyer." There was no very pressing economic need for him to pursue the profession
                    actively. His wife's family was well-to-do and when his father-in-law, Major Elston, died
                    in 1867, he left "a handsome inheritance for his family."9
            
            Wallace acquired an interest in politics from his father, although he himself never achieved an
                    elective public office higher than state senator (1856). He was raised a Whig, became a Democrat,
                    and in 1860 "took a walk" from the Democratic into the Republican camp. It was a
                    Republican president, 
                        Rutherford
                     B. Hayes, who appointed him governor of 
                        New Mexico
                     Territory in 1878, and another Republican, James A. Garfield, who appointed him
                    minister to Turkey in 1881.10
            
            Wallace's neighbors in 
                        Crawfordsville
                     thought of him primarily as a soldier. He had enlisted in the Mexican War in 1846, read
                    some books on tactics, and maintained an interest in volunteer military organizations so upon the
                    outbreak of the Civil War he was appointed adjutant general of Indiana.11 He was
                    in charge of raising the state's first quota of regiments and was given command of the
                    Eleventh Indiana Volunteers. A citizen-soldier in the American tradition, Wallace learned most of
                    his military lessons in the field. He saw action at Fort Donelson, 
                        Shiloh
                    , and Monocacy and rose to the rank of major general. He was later active in the under
                    cover negotiations to keep the Confederates from joining forces with the French regime of the
                    Emperor Maximilian in Mexico. This counterplotting was cut short by a summons to return to 
                        Washington
                     and serve on the court martial that tried Lincoln's suspected assassins.
            Reference has been made to the cloud which hung over 
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., I, 228; Biography of Susan E. Wallace; and recalled in conversation
                            with Harry N. Fine and Chase Harding, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, October, 1946.
                  
                     10
                            Lew Wallace: An Autobiography, I, 202, 260. See also Lingelbach,
                            "Lewis Wallace," in Dictionary of American Biography,
                            XIX, 375-376.
                  
                     11
                            Lew Wallace: An Autobiography, I, 114, 246, 93, 263-264, II, 1110.
               
                     Wallace's military career and loomed large in his
                    consciousness even in his old age. This was the 
                        Shiloh
                     episode. The crux of this affair was that in responding to Grant's order to
                    bring his unit to the battlefield at 
                        Shiloh
                    , Wallace's route of march was such that he arrived too late for the first
                    day's engagement, and Grant publicly criticized his judgment. Wallace was deeply hurt by
                    this criticism and years later he wrote to his wife of "the old wound at 
                        Shiloh
                    ," a wound to the spirit.12
            
            Around the edges of these varied careers Wallace found time to play the violin and to paint pictures
                    and model in clay.13 In the biography of Mrs. Wallace he wrote confidently of
                    this phase, "In 
                        Crawfordsville
                    … Gen. Wallace and his wife have made their home, lovely without, delightful
                    within. He is an artist, and for pastime has covered his walls with pictures."
            In summarizing the events of Lew Wallace's life in this way, one notes he dabbled in
                    literature, the law, politics, war, and the arts. Yet he shied away from complete commitment to any
                    one of these professions. He was always seeking something further, something beyond what these
                    interests were capable of providing. One sees also an essential paradox between Wallace the dreamer
                    of dreams and Wallace the man of decisive action.
            It has been said that there is a little group of students of American history ready to
                    support—but only "off-the-record"—a tenuous but alluring
                    thesis on the state of mind contributing to the Civil War. These hold that a potent psychological
                    factor in the readiness of the South to embark upon the tragic and unnecessary struggle was the
                    strength of the appeal in that section of romantic fiction, particularly the Waverly Novels of
                    Walter Scott.14
            
            If the young manhood of the slaveholding class identified themselves with feudal seigneurs or
                    highland chieftains, an unproved and possibly unprovable contention, they certainly had a northern
                    counterpart in Lew Wallace. For he was a seeker after adventure, a lover of the gallant and dramatic
                    gesture. As a lad of fifteen he tried to run away from home 
                  
                     12 Ibid., 11, 970, 1001; U. S. Grant, "The Battle of 
                                Shiloh
                            ," The Century Illustrated Monthly Magazine (120
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1870-1930), XXIX (1884-1886), 596.
                  
                     13 The collection of musical instruments, paintings, drawings,
                            sculptures are in the Wallace Study, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     14 Recalled in conversation with Richard E. Banta, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana, September, 1946.
               
                     to join the Texans in their revolt. He later left 
                        Indianapolis
                     with a flourish (which involved flunking the state bar examination) to serve in the
                    Mexican War. In the 1850's Wallace organized a company of Zouaves in 
                        Crawfordsville
                    . This was a volunteer guard that paraded in the baggy trousers and tasselled sashes of
                    the French Algerian troops and struck an exotic note in the quiet college town.15
            
            Wallace had a very real flair for the dramatic which he could use to point up the significance of an
                    occasion. On the eve of departure for war he staged a brief public ceremony for the Eleventh
                    Indiana. Before a great crowd of spectators Wallace commanded every man in the regiment to fall upon
                    his knees, raise his right hand and while the onlookers stood hushed, swear a mighty oath to
                    remember the humiliation of the Indiana forces at Buena Vista in the Mexican War and wipe out that
                    shame in battle.16
            
            The romantic tendency can also be noted in Wallace's painting of the conspirators plotting
                    the assassination of Lincoln. The conspirators are shown in a range of poses from furtive to poetic
                    before a classical ruin, a favorite stage property of the age which revolted against the logic and
                    reason of classicism.17
            
            Again one finds the love of the colorful in his description of his friend the Turkish Sultan Abdul
                    Hamid II. "The commander of the faithful wears the uniform of an army officer, without
                    ornament other than a slight dress-sword. His bearing is kingly, his face thin and colorless, eyes
                    black and keen as a falcon's. He rides a milk-white Arabian, which he manages with skillful
                    and delicate hand."18 This was the ruler known variously to the West as
                    "Abdul the Damned" or "The Great Assassin."19
            
            It would be a mistake, however, to regard this romantic 
                  
                     15
                            Lew Wallace: An Autobiography, I, 75, 112-113, 245-246, 272.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 164. The humiliation, according to Wallace, was actually from the
                            unfavorable report on the Indiana unit issued by General Zachary Taylor.
                  
                     17 This painting is on view at the Wallace Study, 
                                Crawfordsville
                            , Indiana. A prime three-dimensional example of Romantic Classicism is to be
                            found in the artificial Greek ruins set up in the Parc Monceau, 
                                Paris
                            , in the previous century. Marie L. Gotheim, A History of Garden
                                Art, edited by Walter P. Wright and translated by Mrs. Archer-Hind (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928), 11, 296.
                  
                     18
                            Lew Wallace: An Autobiography, 11, 984-985.
                  
                     19 Walter P. Hall and William S. Davis, The Course of
                                Europe since Waterloo (
                                New York
                            , 1947), 494.
               
                     weakness, this enthusiasm for going off to the wars, this
                    parading about in picturesque costume, as totally spontaneous and not selfconscious. It is clear
                    from the record that Wallace kept one eye firmly on the realities as they applied to his own career.
                    While Wallace enjoyed romance for its own sake, he possessed above all a romantic yearning for
                    immortal fame. This was the driving force that carried him from interest to interest, made his
                    successes so sweet, his failures so bitter, and caused him to put the best front on his achievements
                    before he had actually become famous.
            His autobiography is very enlightening on this point. Wallace stated that he saw the Civil War coming
                    and knew that it would be not only a long and bitter conflict but "that it would also be
                    crowded with opportunities for distinction not in the least inconsistent with
                        patriotism."20 This yearning for fame is also set forth in so many
                    words in Wallace's unpublished biographical sketch of his wife. He writes,
                    "probably no man, in his efforts to achieve renown, was ever better seconded by his wife
                    than General Wallace."
            The same memoir, which is more concerned with Mrs. Wallace's husband than with the lady
                    herself, acquaints one with the man's own estimate of his accomplishment before Ben Hur made him an international literary figure. "Her husband has had a
                    notable career, and achieved distinction in other lands beside our own. He has a permanent place in
                    history as a soldier; while in literature he is everywhere known as author of 'The Fair
                    God.'"
            Wallace's preoccupation with immortality in history explains the overwhelming importance
                    that Grant's censure took in his mind. 
                        Shiloh
                     became almost an obsession with him. From the extraordinarily disproportionate amount
                    of space devoted to the Battle of 
                        Shiloh
                     in his autobiography, it is apparent that the book's primary purpose was to
                    defend his course of action in that engagement.21
            
            General Grant's information may have been faulty concerning Wallace's movements
                    before 
                        Shiloh
                    , but he revealed shrewd insight into the man when he wrote in the Century
                        Magazine, "I presume his idea was that by taking the route he did, he would be
                    able to come around on the flank or rear of the enemy, and thus perform an act of heroism that would
                        
                  
                     20
                            Lew Wallace: An Autobiography, I, 244.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., I, 448, II, 580.
               
                     redound to the credit of his command, as well as to the benefit
                    of his country."22 Those were not very harsh words and Grant continued
                    to show confidence in Wallace after the episode, but the statement put the finger on
                    Wallace's weakness and must have thus been doubly galling.23
            
            Wallace's weakness, however, was also his strength, for whatever his driving force, it
                    cannot be denied that he did achieve his heart's desire.
            
               
                  22 Grant, "The Battle of 
                            Shiloh
                        ," The Century Illustrated Monthly Magazine, XXIX. 596.
               
                  23
                        Lew Wallace: An Autobiography, II, 816.
            
         
         
         
            Documents: A Continuation of the Journal of an Emigrating Party of Potawatomi Indians, 1838, and
                    Ten William Polke Manuscripts
            
                    Edited by Dwight L. Smith
                    ∗
                
            According to their tradition, the Chippewa, 
                        Ottawa
                    , and Potawatomi tribes were originally one people, inhabiting regions bordering on the
                    northern reaches of the upper Great Lakes. Under the pressure of the Iroquois from one direction and
                    the Sioux from the other, the tribes began to move southward. The advent of the white man to this
                    region found the Potawatomi on either side of Lake 
                        Michigan
                     moving into the Milwaukee River region of 
                        Wisconsin
                     and the St. Joseph River territory of 
                        Michigan
                    .
            After the Treaty of Greenville of 1795, to which they had been a party, the Potawatomi,
                    notwithstanding the protests of the Miami who maintained the whole region to be theirs, announced
                    their intent to move into the upper Wabash River region. Less than a decade
                    later they were in possession of territory around lower Lake 
                        Michigan
                     from Grand River, 
                        Michigan
                    , to the Milwaukee River, 
                        Wisconsin
                    , eastward across southern 
                        Michigan
                     to Lake Erie, southward in Indiana to the Wabash River, and
                    southwestward over most of northern 
                        Illinois
                    . Approximately fifty of their villages were scattered over this area.
            Until 1763, the Potawatomi had been assiduously attached to the French, and their role in the
                    so-called "Pontiac's conspiracy" of 1763 was conspicious. During the
                    American Revolution, their hostilities were directed against the Americans, and they continued to
                    thus array themselves until 1795. Again, in the War cf 1812, the Potawatomi sided with the British.
            As the frontier settlements pushed ever westward, treaties were made with the 
                        United States
                    . Selling their lands piece by piece, they were forced to move westward, eventually even
                    beyond the Mississippi River. From the Treaty of Fort Harmar, 1789, until the
                    time of their removal, the 
                  
                     ∗ Dwight L. Smith is a teaching fellow in American history
                            at Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
               
                     Potawatomi participated in nearly two-score treaties with the 
                        United States
                    . It is estimated that the number in the tribe, in 1795, was twelve hundred. By 1812,
                    they had doubled this number, and in 1820, had further increased it to thirty-four hundred. Within
                    the next thirteen years, it is estimated the number decreased about fifty per cent, to eighteen
                        hundred.1
            
            In 1830, it was made lawful for the president of the 
                        United States
                     to cause some of the government lands west of the Mississippi
                    River to be divided into districts for those tribes of Indians "as may choose to
                    exchange the lands where they now reside, and to remove there." Government aid and
                    assistance would be furnished to enable them to remove to, and to settle in, the lands which they
                    would receive in exchange.2 Congress appropriated twenty thousand dollars, in
                    1832, to hold treaties for the extinguishment of the Potawatomi title to lands in the states of
                    Indiana and 
                        Illinois
                     and the territory of 
                        Michigan
                    .3
            
            In accordance with these acts, Jonathan Jennings, John W. Davis, and Marks Crume, commissioners for
                    the 
                        United States
                    , negotiated three treaties with the Potawatomi in October, 1832, by which were ceded
                    their "title and interests" to lands in Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                    , and 
                        Michigan
                    , reserving for themselves, however, numerous sections on which were located their
                    villages, settlements, and agricultural plots.4
            
            Two years later, in 1834, a commissioner was appointed to purchase the reservations made to the
                    Potawatomi in the 1832 treaties. He succeeded in purchasing about half of the land for fifty cents
                    an acre. The other half was reserved for individual Indians and whites. President Jackson did not
                    even submit this treaty to the Senate for ratification 
                  
                     1 Frederick W. Hodge (ed.), Handbook of American Indians
                                North of Mexico, Bulletin 30, Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of American Ethnology
                            (2 parts, 
                                Washington
                            , 1907-1910), part 2 (1910), 289-293.
                  
                     2 "An Act to Provide for an Exchange of Lands with the
                            Indians Residing in Any of the States or Territories, and for Their Removal West of the
                                River Mississippi," May 28, 1830, in 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, IV, 411-413.
                  
                     3 "An Act to Enable the President to Extinguish Indian Title
                            within the State of Indiana, 
                                Illinois
                            , and Territory of 
                                Michigan
                            ," July 9, 1832, in ibid., IV, 564.
                  
                     4 Treaties of October 20, 26, and 27, 1832, in Charles J. Kappler
                            (comp. and ed.), Indian Affairs, Laws and Treaties, in Senate
                                Documents, 58 Cong., 2 Sess., No. 319 (2d. ed., 2 vols., serial nos. 4623 and
                            4624), II, 355-366, 367-370, 372-375.
               
                     because it did not provide for a complete extinguishment and
                    removal of the Indians west of the Mississippi River. Instead, he appointed
                    Colonel Abel C. Pepper and commissioned him to negotiate the purchase of all the land for the
                        government.5
            
            From March 26 to September 23, 1836, Pepper negotiated nine treaties with the Potawatomi, by which he
                    succeeded in buying all their lands for the government, a total of 135 sections for
                    $95,360, or approximately one dollar and ten cents per acre. The Indians reserved the
                    right to remain on the lands for a period of two years. At the end of this time they had to yield
                    possession and remove west of the Mississippi River with the government bearing
                    the expenses of their removal.6
            
            At the expiration of the two-year period stipulated in the 1836 treaties, the Indians refused to give
                    up the land. In anticipation of the passage of a pre-emption law, squatters had moved into the
                        reservations.7 Congress passed such a law on June 22, 1838, by which each
                    head of family or person over twenty-one, who was and had been a resident for four months at the
                    time of passage of the act, was entitled to not more than a quarter section at the minimum price of
                    public lands at that time.8
            
            When the Potawatomi refused to accede to the demands of the whites who thereby claimed the land,
                    quarrels ensued, one incident led to another, and troops under 
                        Tipton
                     were brought in. A semblance of organization was effected and under duress and escort
                    of the military about a thousand Potawatomi began, on September 4, 1838, their trek to new homes.
                    The removal was under the leadership of Pepper and 
                        Tipton
                    . Judge William Polke, who had been appointed 
                  
                     5 John Tipton to Joel R. Poinsett, 
                                Washington
                            , ca. February 8, 1838, in Nellie A. Robertson and Dorothy
                            Riker (eds.), The John Tipton Papers, in the Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1916-), XXIV-XXVI (1942). XXVI, 530:537. 
                                Tipton
                             to David Wallace, Encampment, Sandusky Point, 
                                Illinois
                            , September 18, 1838, in Senate Documents, 25 Cong., 3 Sess.,
                            No. 1 (serial no. 338), 467-469.
                  
                     6 Treaties of March 26, 29, April 11, 22 (two), August 5, September
                            20, 22, and 23, 1836, in Kappler Indian Affairs, Laws and Treaties, in Senate Documents, 58 Cong., 2 Sess., No. 319, II, 450, 457-459, 462-463,
                            470-472.
                  
                     7
                            
                                Tipton
                             to Wallace, Encampment, Sandusky Point, 
                                Illinois
                            , September 18, 1838, in Senate Documents, 25 Cong., 3 Sess.,
                            No. 1, 467-469.
                  
                     8 "An Act to Grant Pre-emtion Rights to Settlers on the
                            Public Lands," June 22, 1838, in 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, V, 251-252.
               
                     to take them west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , took charge of the movement a fortnight later after the emigrating party had crossed
                    the Indiana-
                        Illinois
                     line.9
            
            The daily "Journal of an Emigrating Party of Pottawatt-omie Indians, 1838," with
                    entries from August 30 through November 10, 1538, is printed in the Indiana Magazine of
                        History, XXI (1925), 315-336, from a copy made by Jesse C. Douglass, enrolling agent. A
                    photostat copy of this is deposited in the Manuscripts Division, Indiana State Library, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana. Herewith printed, by the kind permission of Mrs. Fanny Scott Rumely of 
                        La Porte
                    , Indiana, is a continuation of that journal through December 4, 1838. The handwriting
                    of the first and of that herein printed are not of the same scribe. Neither is written by Polke. The
                    latter apparently was dictated to or kept by a scribe, secretary, or some other member of the
                    emigration. While the orthography and capitalization are unpredictable and erratic, the eight pages
                    of manuscript are quite readable.
            The words printed through which a white line is drawn were crossed out in the original manuscript.
                    (cf ths A, etc.)
            "Continuation of Journal of occurrences relating to Pattawattamie Emigration from Indiana to
                    Western Territory under the direction of Wm. Polke10 Conduct [or]"
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Sunday Nov 11th 1838
                        Not completed the settlement as was anticipated on yesturday
                        Monday 12th
                        Continued throughout yesturday and to-day—completed about 10
                                    O'clock P. M., and retired to rest ready to seperate on to morrow
                        
                           
                              9
                                        
                                            Tipton
                                         to Wallace, Encampment, Sandusky Point, 
                                            Illinois
                                        , September 18, 1838, in Senate Documents, 25
                                        Cong., 3 Sess., No. 1, 467-469.
                           
                              10 William Polke of 
                                            Knox County
                                         had taken charge of the emigration on September 18. He was a member
                                        of the Charles Polke family that had moved from 
                                            Kentucky
                                         to 
                                            Knox County
                                         in 1806. He held a county judgeship, was a member of the 1816 state
                                        constitutional convention, and a state senator from 1816 to 1821. He was
                                        employed as a teacher among the 
                                            Ottawa
                                         in Carey Mission, near present Niles, 
                                            Michigan
                                        , 1824-1825, and later served as a commissioner for the 
                                            Michigan
                                         Road. In 1841, Polke was a pointed register of the Fort 
                                            Wayne
                                         land office. He died in 1843. [William H. Polk], Polk
                                            Family and Kinsmen ([
                                 Louisville, Kentucky
                              , 19121), 391-392. 
                                            Tipton
                                         to Wallace, Encampment, Sandusky Point, 
                                            Illinois
                                        , September 18, 1838, in Senate Documents, 25
                                        Cong., 3 Sess., No. 1, 467-469. Robertson and Riker, The John
                                            Tipton Papers, in the Indiana Historical Collections,
                                        XXIV, 468, note 88.
                        
                        
                        Tuesday 13th
                        After early breakfast with extreme reluctance parted with my friends the Officers of
                                    the Emigration, To whose zeal and fidelity on all occasions to promptly perform
                                    their duties, is to be ascribed the happy termination of the Emigration, begun under
                                    such unfavorable circumstances. Traveled 13 miles to 
                                        Westport
                                    ,11 put up with my friend the Rev. Isaac McCoy12 whom I had not seen for some 8 or ten years. Find from
                                    letters received by my friend that a ch[ange] is taken place in the office of
                                    commissioners of [In]dian affairs by the resignation of the former incumbent
                                    &c
                        Wendesday 14th
                        Remained at my friends, it be [came] excessively cold. Received much valuable
                                    information from my friend on Indian affairs and their new homes: as on these
                                    subjects his information is equal to that of any other person in the 
                                        United States
                                    , and his opinions entitled to respect and consideration. He advises me
                                    on no consideration to leave before the return of Major Davis13
                                    the Agent as he believed the course I had adopted in discharging the party with the
                                    ecception of my son14 whom I kept for an assistant. Was a
                                    measure of Econemy and would meet the approval of the department
                        Thursday 15th,
                        Cont[in]ues extremely cold. Passed the day in writing letters to Gen 
                                        Tipton
                                    
                           15 U. S. Senator from Indiana on the subject of the
                                    Emigration 
                              
                                 11
                                            
                                                Westport
                                            , sometimes known as 
                                                Westport
                                             Landing, is a part of present 
                                    Kansas City, Missouri
                                 .
                              
                                 12 Reverend Isaac McCoy was a missionary to the
                                            Indians. He left a Baptist church pastorate in 
                                                Knox County
                                             in 1818 to minister to some Indians residing a short distance
                                            north of 
                                                Terre Haute
                                            . Two years later, with partial support of the Baptist Mission
                                            Board, he opened a school at Fort 
                                                Wayne
                                            . In 1821, McCoy moved his school into 
                                                Michigan
                                             Territory, near present Niles, where it became known as Carey
                                            Mission. Robertson and Riker, Th John Tipton Papers, in
                                            the Indiana Historical Collections, XXIV, 308, note 14.
                              
                                 13 Anthony L. Davis, a native of 
                                                Kentucky
                                             who migrated to Indiana, held offices in Harrison and later 
                                                Allen County
                                            , and also served as state representative 1829-1830. As a
                                            merchant in Fort 
                                                Wayne
                                            , he furnished supplies to the Indian agency. In 1834, Davis was
                                            appointed as an agent to reside with and to take care of a group of
                                            emigrating Potawatomi. When the Potawatomi of the 1838 emigration settled in
                                            the Osage River country, Davis was appointed as
                                            sub-agent. Ibid., XXIV, 245, note 48. Ibid., XXVI, 97, note 60. Carey A. Harris to 
                                    Tipton, Washington
                                 , March 21, 1837, in ibid., XXVI, 390-391.
                              
                                 14 Benjamin C. Polke was a son of William Polke who
                                            assisted in the Potawatomi emigration.
                              
                                 15 General John Tipton (1786-1839) moved from his
                                            native 
                                    Sevier County, Tennessee
                                 , with his
                                            widowed mother and family, to Indiana. He served as a colonel in the War of
                                            1812, and later attained the rank of major general in the Indiana militia.
                                            After holding various offices in 
                                                Harrison County
                                            , he served in the state legislature. 
                                                Tipton
                                             was Indian agent at Fort 
                                                Wayne
                                            , 1823-1831, and for the subsequent eight years a member of the 
                                                United States
                                             Senate. In 1838, Governor Wallace appointed him to organize a
                                            volunteer company to effect the Potawatomi removal. Ibid.,
                                            XXIV-XXVI, passim.
                              
                           
                                     agreeably to his request. In the afternoon
                                    traveled 3 mile to another friend Mr Lykin's16 just
                                    arrived from 
                                        Michigan
                                     whither he had been on public business In conversation with him. He
                                    approves of my course and advises me by all means to remain until the return of the
                                    Agt. said in common cases he was authorized to transact business for Mr Davis, but
                                    this was of such a character and such inportunce to future Emigrations of the same
                                    tribe th[at] [he] did not feel willing to act in [the] present case.
                        Friday 16th
                        The cold continues extreme for the season about 11 O'clock left my friend
                                    traveled 18 miles on my return
                        Saturday 17th
                        After early breakfast left Mr Catons the out side farm in 
                                        Missouri
                                    , traveled 26 miles through the lonely prairie and a cold wind arrived
                                    in the evening late at Mr Davis' No intelligence received from him by his
                                    family. A severe snow storm this evening snow about 3 in. deep
                        Sunday 18th
                        At ten O'clock left the agency rode 16 miles to R Polke's17 who resides as trador near the Pattawattamie Encampment,
                                    where I shall take up my quarters until my departure it being convenient to the
                                    Indian Camps
                        Monday 19th
                        During the day several of the cheifs and others having been informed of my return
                                    visited me to make enquiries concerning the Agt and expressing anxiety for his
                                    return as they wished to know something about the payment of their ann [manuscript
                                    illegible] uities and the prospects of Government making their improvement which
                                    they believed they were entitled to by promises made them in place of those burnt on
                                    the reserve previous to their being forced from their [manuscript torn] Inreply [sic] I observe Whatever was promised them would be performed by
                                    their great Father. That for the present I advised them to build for themselves as
                                    comfortable winter quarters as they could that it was so cold and late in the season
                                    that homes could not be procured that it was so late that boats could not ascend the
                                        Missouri River That Mr Davis on his return could give them
                                    more information than I could That in the spring what the Government had promised
                                    them would be performed much more said to the same amount The Indians appeared
                                    satisfied with my explanation
                        Tuesday 20th
                        My sons & my horses the last night having broke away or was stolen.
                        
                           
                              16 Johnston Lykins served as a Baptist missionary to the
                                        Potawatomi, and as a teacher in McCoy's school at the Carey Mission in 
                                            Michigan
                                        . He served as an assistant agent for the Potawatomi emigration. Ibid., XXIV, 427, note 56. Pepper to 
                                            Tipton
                                        , Rising Sun, February 10, 1838, in ibid., XXIV,
                                        637-638.
                           
                              17 Robert Polke was a brother to William Polke. He was a
                                        trader and had been licensed to trade with the Potawatomi in the Osage
                                            River country. Polke to 
                                 Tipton, Carlisle
                              ,
                                        July 28, 1832, in ibid., XXV, 666-667. Davis to 
                                            Tipton
                                        , Fort 
                                            Leavenworth
                                        , May 8,1837, in ibid., XXVI, 398-399.
                        
                        
                        I dispached my son this morning in pursuit to go as far as Independence and return by
                                    way of 
                                        Westport
                                     to request Mr Lykins as no Intelligence is yet received from Mr Davis
                                    to come out and receive the Indians as I am extremely anxious to get home without
                                    farther delay
                        Wendes 21st
                        Visited the Indians camp found them busily engaged preparing their winter quarters
                                    agreeably to my advice. Re [manuscript torn] their enquiries as to the return of the
                                    [manuscript torn] manifest more unwillingness for me to leave them before this
                                    return zf the Agt They wish me to hear what he has to say to them
                        Thursday 22nd
                        This day the cheif Ash-cun18 visited me as I did not go to the
                                    camps. Made some enquiries as to the boundary of their land &c with the same
                                    enquiries as the other cheifs. I have no doubt the object of their repeated
                                    enquiries on the subject is to extort some promises from me believing what I
                                    promised would be fulfilled by the Government for I made it an unvariable Rule on
                                    the Jou[r]ney, to make no promises but what I punctually performed. I am careful to
                                    make no promises that will embarrass the Agent
                        Friday 23rd
                        Visited by the cheif I-o-wa19 had the same story to repeat and
                                    the same request as to my remaining with them until the return of the Agent with an
                                    additional request that I would again visit their camps to see how the Indians get
                                    along to which I consented
                        Saturday 24th
                        Snow Storm this morning after which it became pleasant. visited the camps agreeably
                                    to promise find many of them have comfortable camps for winter and the principle
                                    part of the men engaged preparing a temporary chapel for the purpose of performing
                                    their devotional exercises in, They appeared pleased with my visit named the promise
                                    made them by Gen 
                                        Tipton
                                     of building them a chapel had repitition of the same requests an
                                    answers as before with an additional one of knowing their boundaries before
                                    permanently locating themselves My son returned this evening no intelligence of our
                                    horses. Mr. Lykins still insists on my remaining untill the return of the Agent
                        Sunday 25th
                        My son and a young man that I employed went in search of our 
                              
                                 18 Ashkum (Ashcome, Ashkom, etc.) was the chief of the
                                            Potawatomi village on the north side of Eel River, near
                                            present 
                                                Denver
                                                Miami County
                                            , Indiana. His signature was affixed to all the principal
                                            Potawatomi treaties made in the period 1821-1837. Hodge, Handbook of American Indians, part 1 (1907), 101. Robertson and
                                            Riker, The John Tipton Papers, in the Indiana Historical
                                                Collections, XXIV, 615, note 18.
                              
                                 19
                                            
                                                Iowa
                                             was one of the principal Potawatomi chiefs on the emigration.
                                            Chauncy Carter to 
                                                Tipton
                                            , Clinton, 
                                                Missouri
                                            , October 14, 1838, in Robertson and Riker, The
                                                John Tipton Papers, in the Indiana Historical Collections, XXVI, 749-750.
                           
                                     horses down the Osage
                                        River
                           20 thinking perhaps they may be in some of
                                    the bottoms of said River. I have to remain to go over the same Road to and from the
                                    Indian camps, though the story has been SO often told My son and young man has
                                    returned but no intelligence of the lost horses I have come to the conclusion that
                                    they have been stolen
                        Monday 26th
                        The season is so far advanced and no intelligence of Mr Davis I have concluded to
                                    return to westport and see if Mr Lykins will consent to act for the agent so I can
                                    return home before the Roads become impassible.
                        Tuesday 22 [sic]
                        This day I attended the issue of provisions by the contractor of corn & beef
                                    under the direction of a young man for the agent much attention is necessary in
                                    order to prevent frauds being practiced upon the Indians by issueing corn in the
                                    year as has been the practice Late this evening the cheif we-wis-sa called to see me
                                    and said that part of his family was behind. and hoped that I would Bring them next
                                    year as he wanted all his family to move west as he was convinced that it would be
                                    to their advantage for them all to remove west. I told him I should use my endevors
                                    to have them come.
                        Wendesday 28th
                        Early this morning the chief, Ia-wa called upon me said he was informed that I was a
                                    going to leave them that the Indians wished me visit them before my departure he had
                                    come at their request and would return and have them assembled at his tent on my
                                    arrival I found them assembled after repeating their former requests and expressing
                                    their satisfaction of my treatment During my continuation with them many of them
                                    stated they had friends behind which they wished to come next year and also
                                    expressed a wish that I should conduct the party after which I had to go through the
                                    ceremony of shaking hands with men women and children as is the custom of Indians
                                    which detained me until late in the day, after which I had to ride 16 miles to the
                                    agency
                        December 1st
                        The Agent having returned I had to assist in remustering the Indians which was
                                    completed on the 3rd Inst as will appear from the muster herewith transmitted
                        December 4th
                        Proceded on our Journey to Independence where we expect to take stage for st
                                Louis
                     
                  
               
                
            Many of the letters written by the various officials during the course of the emigration have been
                    printed in The John Tipton Papers, XXVI, passim. Ten such
                    letters, however, 
                  
                     20 The Osage River flows from eastern 
                                Kansas
                             into 
                                Missouri
                             to join the Missouri River near the center of the
                        state.
               
                     are now printed from the William Polke collection, in the
                    possession of Mrs. Fanny Scott Rumely, great-granddaughter of Polke, for the first time. Eight were
                    sent by Polke and the remaining two received by him. Polke's script is such as would
                    sometimes tax the faculties of a chirographer. Indeed, "we almost invoked the spirit of our
                    fathers to help us decypher." The letters are herewith reproduced as accurately as
                    possible.
            Abel C. Pepper21 to William Polke [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Emigration of Indians
                              Forks 
                                    Wabash
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Sept 15, 1838
                                
                        Sir,
                        Your report of the 12th inst,22 has been received and its
                                    contents carefully examined. It would give me pleasure to appoint your son an
                                    assistant Conductor, but I had previously promised Capt. Hull23
                                    an appointment if the services of an additional assistant should be required.
                        And as he in my opinion possesses all the qualities required to constitute an
                                    efficient, capable and energetic officer; I have the fullest confidence that he will
                                    discharge the duties assigned him with entire satisfaction to yourself and all
                                    concerned. Gen. 
                                        Tipton
                                     has recommended the Suspension of Luther Rice24 as
                                    assistant Conductor—You 
                              
                                 21 Abel C. Pepper, a native of 
                                                Kentucky
                                            , emigrated to Indiana Territory in 1815 and settled in 
                                                Dearborn County
                                            . He served as a private in the War of 1812 and later rose to
                                            the rank of brigadier generally in the militia. He is generally referred to,
                                            however, as a colonel. Pepper held various county offices, served in the
                                            state legislature, and was a candidate for lieutenant-governor in 1828. He
                                            was appointed sub-agent at Fort 
                                                Wayne
                                            , promoted to agent, and finally became superintendent for !he
                                            removal of the Indians in Indiana, 
                                    Illinois, Michigan
                                 , and 
                                                Wisconsin
                                            . From 1845 to 1849 he served as a 
                                                United States
                                             marshal. Pepper was active in the state constitutional
                                            convention of 1850. He died in 1860. William Wesley Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , Indiana, 1883), 407-411.
                              
                                 22 See Polke to Pepper. Pleasant Run Encampment.
                                            September 12, 1838, in Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton
                                                Pipers, in the Indiana Historical Collections,
                                            XXVI, 701-702.
                              
                                 23 Captain Jacob Hull was appointed assistant
                                            conductor of the Potawatomi emigration to succeed Luther Rice. He had charge
                                            of a small detachment that remained in 
                                                Logansport
                                             until September 10 because of sickness. Pepper to Harris, Forks
                                            of 
                                                Wabash
                                            , September 15, 1838, in ibid., XXVI, 707-708.
                                            Polke to Harris, Camp near Independence, 
                                                Missouri
                                            , November 10, 1838. See ante pp. 407-408.
                              
                                 24 Luther Rice acted as interpreter for a Potawatomi
                                            emigration from within the 
                                                Chicago
                                             agency to the vicinity of Fort 
                                                Leavenworth
                                             on the Missouri River in 1835, and for a
                                            delegation of these Indians to 
                                                Washington
                                             in the winter of 1835-1836. He was appointed assistant
                                            conductor for the 1838 emigration, but was later suspended and demoted to
                                            interpreter. Rice to 
                                    Tipton,
                                                    Washington
                                 , April
                                            23, 1836, in Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton Papers,
                                            in the Indiana Historical Collections, XXVI, 265-266.
                                            Pepper to Harris, Forks 
                                                Wabash
                                            , September 6, 1838, in ibid., XXVI, 696-697.
                                            Pepper to Harris, Forks of the 
                                                Wabash
                                            , September 15, 1838, in ibid., XXVI, 707-708. 
                                                Tipton
                                             to Pepper, Pleasant Run Encampment, September 12, 1838, in ibid., XXVI, 703-704.
                           
                                     will tell him that he is therefore suspended;
                                    but that he may if he chooses continue to act as interpreter, and if he does he will
                                    be paid accordingly.25
                        
                        You will be punctual in making your weekly reports to the Commr. of Indian Affairs26 and to this office—no excuse will be taken for a
                                    neglect of this part of your instructions—not even sickness, for in that
                                    case you can employ some one to write for you.
                        Your Muster Roll properly certified will I hope soon come to hand.
                        I would recommend to you the perusal of your instructions and of the
                                    "regulations No. 5" upon all occasions of leasure until you
                                    understand them perfectly.
                        I am sir, very respectfully your obt. servt.
                        
                                    A C Pepper
                                    Superintendent
                                
                         William Polke Esq. Conductor. [Endorsed] A C Pepper to W Polke Sept 15
                                1838
                     
                  
               
                
            William Polke to Carey A. Harris
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Encampment near 
                                    Danville
                                  [
                                    Illinois
                                 ]
                           
                                    16 Septr 1838
                                
                        Hon C A Harris
                        Sir
                        Knowing the anxiety you must feel respecting the numerous party of Potys recently
                                    placed in my charge to be transferd to thier new homes in the west I beg leave to
                                    submit for your inspection a copy of my communication of this day to Col A C
                                        Pepper.27
                        
                        The time is no much sickness prevails in our Country the Indians have been unhealthy
                                    but are improving in health, the whites are I think as unhealthy or more so than the
                                    Indians
                        
                                    Yr obt Sert.
                                    Wm Polke
                                
                        [Endorsed] C. A Hawk 16th Sept
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            William Polke to Carey A. Harris [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Encampment near 
                                    Danville
                                 
                              
                           
                                    16 Septr 1838
                                
                        Sir
                        With this I have the honour to transmit to you a roll of the Pottawotimie 
                              
                                 25 See Pepper to Harris, Forks of the 
                                                Wabash
                                            , September 15, 1838, in ibid., XXVI, 707-708.
                              
                                 26 Carey A. Harris was 
                                                United States
                                             Commissioner of Indian Affairs until succeeded by Thomas H.
                                            Crawford, October 22, 1838. Ibid., XXVI, 785, note 12.
                              
                                 27 See note 22.
                           
                                     Indians Emigrating under my charge from 
                                        Marshall County
                                     Indi to the Osage rive[r] in the western Territory
                        
                                    Yr obt Sert
                                    Wm Polke
                                
                         Hon C A Harris Com Indn Affair [Endorsed] C. A. Harris Sept. 16
                     
                  
               
                
            William Polke to Carey A. Harris [AL]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Sandusky Encampmen[t]28
                              
                           
                                    19 Septr 1838
                                
                        Sir
                        It is known to you that volunteers to prevent difficultees between the Pottowotimy
                                    Indians & our own Citizens 100 volunteers were ordered into service by the
                                    Govr of Indiana,29 no doubt was entertaned that they woud effect
                                    a removal of the Indians and as the volunteers were on thier march to the Indian
                                    village I was requested to accept the appointment of conductor shoud thiere be an
                                    Emigration not one day not an hour was left me to examin your instruction or forms I
                                    entered the service and in three days had the management of between seven &
                                    eight hundred Indians my Clerks & all assistents were to select nether
                                    disburseing officer of money except that furnished on the credit or from the pocket
                                    of a private citizen.
                        The volunteers acted as common labourers in hauling Indian Poneys collecting thier
                                    other property & doing camp duty. These men were (many of them) of the first
                                    citizens of the State they refused to use the Indian ration. Bread bacon, Tea coffee
                                    & sugar were purchased for thier use and forrage for thier horses.
                        I have never yet been furnished with a copy of the contract for transportation. The
                                    contractors believing that no Emigration woud be got up had no wagons ready until
                                    hundreds of Indians were reday to move they then hired some all the wagons and I was
                                    compelled to hire wagons to transport sick Indians the first 5 days of our march I
                                    hired wagons every day & paid them off in a day or two or as soon as others
                                    could be procured I find by examining the roll which I send you to day that I have
                                    discharged ten wagons that have rendered service for short periods, to day I will
                                    prepare and get the wagoners on the 15 Inst the contractors for furnishing
                                    transportation abandoned their contract & I have entered into a contract
                                    with another Mr George Smith30 to furnish transportation the
                                    ballance of the Journey, to day 
                              
                                 28 Sandusky Point was six miles west of Dandle, 
                                                Illinois
                                            .
                              
                                 29 David Wallace to 
                                                Tipton
                                            , State of Indiana Executive Department, August 27, 1838, in
                                            Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton Papers, in the
                                            Indiana Historical Collections, XXVI, 675.
                              
                                 30 George Smith was a mail contractor in northern
                                            Indiana and a wagoner on the Potawatomi emigration. Elias Murray to 
                                                Tipton
                                            , Lagro, Indiana, June 24, 1838, in ibid.,
                                            XXVI, 646. 
                                                Tipton
                                             letter, August 28, 1838, in ibid., XXVI,
                                        680.
                           
                                     I will prepare and send you a roll showing the
                                    signature of the persons authorized to receve pay for thier services
                        heretofore it has not been possible for the disburseing offecir or myself to conferm
                                    to your forms and instructions with that accuracy that we coud wish but hereafter I
                                    will pursue the forms and instructions given me by the superintendant or yourself
                        
                                    With great respect Yr obt Servt
                                    [William Polke]
                                
                         C A Harris Comr Indians [Endorsed] To C. A. Harris 19th Sept 
                     
                  
               
                
            William Polke to Abel C. Pepper [LS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp at Sandusky Point 6 miles west of 
                                    Danville
                                  Ill.
                           
                                    Sept 19th 1838
                                
                        sir
                        The Blanks Inclosed have been filled as follows. Thomas C Slaughter31 Assistant conductor sept 1st 1838. John R Calder32
                                    Assistant conductor sept 1st 1838 J. C. Douglass33 Enrolling
                                    Agent sept 4th 1838. I herewith Return the appointment of Thomas C Slaughter as
                                    enrolling Agent and Joshua shields34 with a request that Mr
                                    Shields appointment be changed to that of assistant conductor from the date of his
                                    former appointment of Assistant superintendant herewith returned. I repeat the
                                    request that B. C. Polke be appointed assistant Conductor commencing the 10th
                                    instant the day his services commenced in camp From the number of waggons employed
                                    in the Emigration it is Indispensibly necessary that a waggon master be appointed
                                    which will advance the progress of the Emigration. After consulting Genl 
                                        Tipton
                                     who coincides with me in opinion we have assigned that duty to Mr 
                              
                                 31 Thomas C. Slaughter was employed by John B. Duret
                                            in the 
                                                Cass County
                                             clerk's office. Duret to 
                                    Tipton, Logansport
                                 , December 16, 1837, in ibid., XXVI. 475-476.
                              
                                 32 John R. Calder was assistant to Major Henry W.
                                            Tiley, disbursing agent for the Miami annuity payments of 1838. Pepper to
                                                    
                                    Tipton, Logansport
                                 , September 5, 1838,
                                            in ibid., XXVI, 691.
                              
                                 33 Jesse C. Douglass was one of the publishers of the 
                                                Logansport
                                            , Indiana, Herald. He was appointed as an
                                            enrolling agent and as adjutant for the Potawatomi emigration. Receipt, J.
                                            C. Douglass to John T. Douglass and 
                                                Tipton
                                            , Aril 27, 1837, in ibid., XXVI, 397. Ibid., XXVI, 713, note 25. 
                                                Tipton
                                             to Wallace, Sandusky Point, 
                                                Illinois
                                            , September 18, 1838, in ibid., XXVI, 713-718.
                              
                                 34 Joshua Shields was a brother-in-law and cousin of 
                                                Tipton
                                            . About 1807 he emigrated from 
                                    Sevier County, Tennessee
                                 , to 
                                                Harrison County
                                            , Indiana. He received wounds at 
                                                Tippecanoe
                                             and served in the War of 1812. Shields was assistant
                                            superintendent of the Potawatomi emigration. Ibid., XXIV,
                                            xvii, and 87, note 55. Spier 
                                                Spencer
                                            's Company: 
                                                Pay
                                             Roll," September 12 to November 23 1811, in ibid., XXIV, 84-88. "
                                                Tipton
                                            's Company: Muster Roll," September 5-20,
                                            1812, in ibid., XXIV, 97-99. Pepper to Harris, Forks 
                                                Wabash
                                            , September 6, 1838, in ibid., XXVI,
                                        696-697.
                           
                                     John Hamilton35 a Gentleman
                                    well qualified for the appointment and request that you confirm the appointment and
                                    that his salary be two Dollars and fifty cents per day; With a view to Economy and
                                    to prevent dissatisfaction I would respectfully suggest the propriety of
                                    discontinuing Luther Rice as assistant conductor and appoint him first
                                    Interperter—indtead [sic] of Andrew Gosline36 assistant Interpeter Instead of Principal all which is
                                    respectfully submited
                        
                                    Your Obt servant
                                    Wm Polke Conductor
                                
                         Col A C Pepper Superintendant Emigrating Indians [Endorsed] To Col Pepper 19th
                                    Sept 
                     
                  
               
                
            William Polke to Carey A. Harris [LS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Encampment, at Sangamon River
                                 37
                              
                           
                                    23d Septr. 1838.
                                
                        Sir
                        Two days since, one of the principal chiefs, I-o-weh, who has assisted and taken an
                                    active part in forwarding the present emigration of the Pottawattamie Indians, was
                                    found to be without his horses, they having strayed away from the encampment. It was
                                    thought that to compel him to walk among those over whom he exercises such supreme
                                    control might prove unpopular to the cause of the emigration, and be the cause of
                                    such serious discontent as to effect much the ends and objects of the government, so
                                    far as his connection with his people might be brought to bear upon this and cases
                                    of a like character.—A horse, for which the Disbursing Officer paid
                                    $62.50, was accordingly purchased and given to him.
                        I have to hope that you will see the necessity of the course which has been adopted.
                                    I-o-weh has lately been zealously engaged in assisting the Officers of the
                                    government in the collection of the Indians, and aiding all in his power to bring
                                    about the present Emigration.
                        
                                    Wm Polke Conductr
                                
                         Hon C. A. Harris. [Endorsed] To C. A. Harris 23d Sept. 
                     
                  
               
                
            William Polke to Carey A. Harris [AL]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp 
                                    Quincy
                                  west Bank of Mississipi
                           
                                    octobe[r] 9th [1838]
                                
                        sir
                        on yesterday about 10 o Clock A m the front of the Emigration 
                              
                                 35 John Hamilton was a wagoner on the Potawatomi
                                            emigration. "List of Wagoners, Potawatomi Removal,"
                                            September, 1838, in ibid., XXVI, 738-739.
                              
                                 36 Andrew Goslin (Gosland).
                              
                                 37 The Sagamon River of central 
                                                Illinois
                                             flows into the Illinois River at the
                                            juncture of Cass, Mason, and 
                                                Schuyler counties
                                            .
                           
                                     Reached the Mississippii and before sunset we
                                    had all the Indians and part of our waggons across we shall have to Remain here to
                                    Day and probably to morrow in order to give our waggonersers [sic]
                                    & others an opportunity of Repairing their getting thier horses shod and
                                    other necessary Repairs I had supposed that at this p[l]ace I could have Dispensed
                                    with the servecis of the Volunters that have been attached to the Emigration but the
                                    Experience of the last week has Convinced me of thier use in husling the Indian
                                    groups Each morning and guarding against Impositions from suspicious persons who are
                                    following the Emigration with a view as is supposed frequent our Camps with a view
                                    of swindling the Indians of thier ponies and other property and another very
                                    Important Duty they perform by guarding the grogshops with [which] Each village
                                    abounds through which we pass to prevent the Intoxication of the Indians in which we
                                    have suceeded thus far with but few Exceptions, under these Circumstances I have
                                    Concluded to Retain them in service during the Remainder of the Emigration as the
                                    Weather is Becoming Cool with frost we shall be Compelled to purchase shoes for a
                                    Num[ber] of the old men and squaws who are Destitute of Mocasons owing to the great
                                    Number of weak and Infirm we have frequently to Employ waggons for a Day or two at a
                                    time which Does not appear on the Roll of waggons and in the absence of Instructions
                                    from Col Pepper the superintendant I have Exercised what I beleeve a sound
                                    Discression in forwarding the Benevolent Views of the governme[n]t and [illegible]
                                    towards these Indians
                        
                                    I am sir your obe
                                    [William Polke]
                                
                         [Endorsed] To C. A. Harris Oct. 9th 
                     
                  
               
                
            [William Polke?] to
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Cantsville38
                                 
                                    Missouri
                                 ,
                           
                                    Octr 18 1838.
                                
                        Sir,
                        By the enclosed statements of the officers of the Emigration you will discover that a
                                    novel occurance has transpired in this Emigration To have complied with the request
                                    of the chiefs and other Indians would have been subversive of good order in the
                                    Emigration, and to pass Doctr Jerolaman's39 improper
                                    Conduct course in silence, would be equally improper.40 Under
                                    these circumstances I have thought proper to submit the whole case to the
                                    Department.
                        
                                    I am, Sir, Your obedt. Servant
                                
                        [Endorsed] Copy to mr Harris October 18th
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  38 Cantsville is present Coatsville, 
                            Schuyler County
                        , in northern Miasouri.
               
                  39 George M. Jerolaman (Gerolomun) was a physician on the Potawatomi
                        emigration.
               
                  40 The Potawatomi demanded "the dismissal or suspension of Dr.
                        Jerolaman… whom they had ceased to like, and did not wish him longer to accompany the
                        emigration." See entries for October 14 and 16, 1838, in "Journal of an
                        Emigration Party of Pottawattomie Indians, 1838," Indiana Magazine of
                            History (
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, 1905-), XXI (1925), 329-330.
            
            
            Jacob Hull to William Polke [ALS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Emigration
                        
                                    
                              Little Blue River
                                 41 Encampment
                           
                                    Oct 30 1838
                                
                        Honrd William Polke
                        Sir
                        in compliance with your request I send there in enclosed a coppy of my journal the
                                    Original contracts with the Wagoners the number of Persons Employed the number of
                                    Teams and Emigrants &c &
                        The wole [sic] No of Emigrants was 32 who started from Camp
                                        Logan42 Consisting of the following famalies
                        
                           
                              Topia malica and Lewis Burnett43 - -
                              9
                           
                           
                              Mek-Seek-Waga
                              9
                           
                           
                              Pok-ka-qos
                              12
                           
                           
                              To-Pice
                              2
                           
                           
                              
                              32
                           
                           
                              the number who ar[e] now in camp ar[e] 23 as follows
                           
                           
                              Topa-ma-lica & Lewis Burnett - -
                              8
                           
                           
                              Meek-Seek-Waga
                              6
                           
                           
                              Pok ka qos
                              3
                           
                           
                              To Piase
                              3
                           
                           
                              Jo-Wa-Qua
                              3
                           
                           
                              
                              23
                           
                        
                        The reasons of the famalies differing in name and number from what thiy [sic] were at the time of Starting is occationed by some leeving one famaly
                                    and joining others and Seperating for themselves
                        The journal will explane how the Number was diminished—
                        
                                    Moste Respectfully Your Odt Servt
                                    Jacob Hull
                                
                        [Endorsed] Jacob Hull Muster Roll October 30, 1838
                     
                  
               
                
            William Polke to Carey A. Harris [LS]
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp, near Independence, Mo.
                           
                                    10th Nov. 1838.
                                
                        Sir
                        Enclosed I have the honor to transmit you the conclusion of the 
                              
                                 41 The Little Blue River runs
                                            from southern 
                                                Nebraska
                                             into northeastern 
                                                Kansas
                                             to join the Big Blue River, a tributary of
                                            the Kansas River.
                              
                                 42
                                            
                                                Logansport
                                            .
                              
                                 43 Lewis Burnett (Topenebee) was a noted Potawatomi
                                            chief in southern 
                                                Michigan
                                            . He signed the Treaty of Greenville and eleven others in behalf
                                            of the Potawatomi. A biographical sketch is given in Hodge Handbook of American Indians, part 2, p. 785. See also Hull to
                                                    
                                    Tipton, Logansport
                                 , September 11, 1838,
                                            in Robertson and Riker, The John Tipton Papers, in the
                                            Indiana Historical Collections, XXVI. 700.
                           
                                     Journal of the emigration of the Pottawattamie
                                    Indians, brought up to this date—the day of final settlement with the
                                    officers and teams attached to the party.44
                        
                        It affords me pleasure to say that the emigration has been conducted and finally
                                    concluded with the greatest promptitude. Not an unpleasant circumstance occurred
                                    during the whole of the journey, to affect the character or retard at all the
                                    progress of the party. All went off, and was settled with that harmony and good
                                    nature, which was and is best calculated to subserve the interests of government.
                        By the Journal you will observe that the Indians after arriving at their homes,
                                    preferred complaints against government for its non-performance of the stipulations
                                    of the treaties concluded with them for their removal west. Houses have not been
                                    built for them—lands have not been cultivated. They murmur at this, and
                                    perhaps with propriety. I would respectfully suggest that the promises made them
                                    both by government and Gen. 
                                        Tipton
                                    , in regard to the improvement of their homes in the west, receive early
                                    attention. Such course may prevent future trouble and perhaps difficulties.
                        In a day or two, according to a promise extorted from me, I shall return to the
                                    Indians, and remain with them until the return of Mr Davis, the Agent, whose absence
                                    I have earlier neglected to notice. In consequence of Mr D's absence, the
                                    Indians have not yet been formally delivered.
                        During my stay with the Indians, I shall do all in my power to harmonize their
                                    feelings, and hope that the Department will see the necessity of an immediate
                                    compliance with its promises.
                        
                                    I am very respectfully Your obt Servt
                                    Wm Polke Conductor
                                
                        PS. I also enclose the Journal of Capt. J. Hull, kept during his march with a
                                    small detachment of Pottawattamies, left sick at 
                                        Logansport
                                    , of the 10th Sept. last.
                                    W. P. Com
                            Hon C. A. Harris Comi of Indian affairs 
                                        Washington
                                     [Endorsed] To C. A. Harris 10th Nov 1838 
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  44 See "Journal of an Emigrating Party of Pottawattomie Indiana,
                        1838," Indiana Magazine of History, XXI, 316-336.
            
         
         
         
            Recent Documentary Acquisitions to the Indiana Historical Society Library relating to Fort 
                        Wayne
                    
            
            
                    Howard H. Peckham
                    ∗
                
            Source material on Fort 
                        Wayne
                     (the fort, not the city) has never been plentiful or even satisfactory. Therefore, the
                    Indiana Historical Society Library was happy to acquire a series of fourteen letters, two documents,
                    and four garrison returns in the early period of 1799-1814. These letters and documents, all written
                    at Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , were sent to Colonel Jacob 
                        Kingsbury
                     (died 1837), a Revolutionary War officer from 
                        Connecticut
                     who had continued in service in the 
                        United States
                     Army. He was a lieutenant in the First Infantry Regiment in 1789 and rose to be colonel
                    of the regiment in 1808. 
                        Kingsbury
                     commanded Fort Mackinnac in 1804 and was sent the next year to the mouth of the
                        Missouri River to establish Fort Belle Fontaine. He was in 
                        Detroit
                     in 1810 and 1811. In 1812 he went on sick leave to 
                        Connecticut
                     and after the war broke out was on duty at 
                  Newport, Rhode Island
               , where his officers
                    addressed him. He retired from the army in 1851.1
            
            The letters and documents, by date and author, are as follows:
            
               1799 June 13, Colonel John F. Hamtramck, order signed, 1P.
               1799 June 14, Hamtramck to Jacob 
                            Kingsbury
                        , ALS,2 2 P.
               1800 July 27, J. B. Laplant, receipts signed, 1 p.
               1810 March 5, Captain Nathan Heald to 
                            Kingsbury
                        , ALS, 1 p.
               1810 March 22, Captain John Whistler to 
                            Kingsbury
                        , ALS, 1 p. 1810 May 17, Captain James Rhea to 
                            Kingsbury
                        , ALS, 2 p.
               1810 August 11, Rhea to 
                            Kingsbury
                        , ALS, 1 p.
            
            
               
                  ∗ Howard H. Peckham is the secretary of the Indiana Historical
                        Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana.
               
                  1 Francis B. Heitman, Historical Register of the 
                                United States
                             Amy (
                            Washington
                        , 1890), 390; M. M. Quaife, 
                     
                                Chicago
                             and the Old Northwest (
                            Chicago
                        , 1913), 154-155.
               
                  2 Autograph letter signed.
            
            
            
               1810 September 6, Rhea to 
                            Kingsbury
                        , ALS, 2 p.
               1811 March 2, John Johnston to 
                            Kingsbury
                        , ALS, 2 p. 1811 March 31, Rhea to 
                            Kingsbury
                        , ALS, 1 p.
               1811 June 1, Rhea to 
                            Kingsbury
                        , ALS 1 p. 1811 June 4, Rhea to 
                            Kingsbury
                        , ALS, 2 p.
               1811 November 3, Rhea to 
                            Kingsbury
                        , ALS, 3 p.
               1812 September 21, Ensign Daniel Curtis to 
                            Kingsbury
                        , ALS, 11 p.
               1814 November 1, Whistler to 
                            Kingsbury
                        , ALS, 2 p.
               1814 December 2, Whistler to 
                            Kingsbury
                        , ALS, 1 p.
            
            The garrison returns are dated:
            
               1810 January 31, Captain Heald's company.
               1810 March 31, Captain Heald's company.
               1814 October 31, Major Whistler's company and militia.
               1814 November 30, Major Whistler's company and militia.
            
            The long letter from Ensign Daniel Curtis is an eyewitness account of the siege of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    . It is of so much interest that it is printed below. Ensign Curtis also wrote an
                    account of the siege to a friend named James Cullen C. Witherell on October 4. This letter was
                    printed in Charles E. Slocum, History of the Maumee River
                    Basin (Defiance, 
                        Ohio
                    , 1905), 277-279, and has formed the chief basis of our knowledge of what went on
                    between the fort and the Indians during the four weeks' siege.3 The new
                    letter, written September 21, tells almost the same story and is obviously the original from which
                    the later one was prepared. There are slight variations in spelling and punctuation in the letter
                        
                  
                     3 The letter was also printed a year later in Friend Palmer, Early Dugs in 
                                    Detroit
                                
                      (
                        Detroit, Michigan
                     , 1906), 880-885. There the
                            recipient is identified as "Cullen Colburn Witherell, uncle of Senator Thomas W.
                            Palmer. To have been the uncle of Senator Palmer, he would have to have been the brother of
                            Mary Amy Witherell Palmer (the mother of the senator) and the son of James Witherell
                            (1759-1838), judge of the Supreme Court of 
                                Michigan
                             Territory, 1808-1828. The eldest son of the judge is listed as James C. C.
                            Witherell, born in 
                                Vermont
                             in 1791. After attending 
                                Middlebury
                             College, he moved with the family to 
                                Detroit
                             and served with his father as a volunteer officer in 1812. Both men had to
                            surrender with General Hull and were sent to Kingston, 
                                Ontario
                            , where they were released on parole. They went to 
                                Vermont
                            , where James C. C. died in 1813. Silas Farmer, The History of 
                                    Detroit
                                 and 
                                    Michigan
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                        Detroit,
                                    Michigan
                     , 1889, II, 1133. The
                            letter from Curtis, which he may never have seen, evidlently was kept by his sister, but it
                            is not among the Palmer family papers or the Witherell papers in the Burton Historical
                            Collection, 
                                Detroit
                            . A copy of Curtis' letter to 
                                Kingsbury
                            , September 21, 1812, exists in 
                                Kingsbury
                            's letter book, 1812-1813, No. 121, in the Burton Historical
                            Collection.
               
                     to Witherell but too much cannot be made of this difference
                    because Slocum evidently used a free hand in editing the letter. One curious change, which either
                    Curtis or Slocum made, is the substitution of the word "Aborigines" for
                    "Indians"' in many places. Additions in the letter to Witherell are
                    indicated where they occur in the letter to 
                        Kingsbury
                     below. One paragraph in the Witherell letter is new and was substituted for another
                    paragraph in the 
                        Kingsbury
                     letter. Finally, the latter is slightly longer than the former. I have not been able to
                    locate the original manuscript of the letter to Witherell, if it still exists, so Indiana is the
                    richer for having the letter to 
                        Kingsbury
                     in safe custody.
            The writer, Daniel Curtis, was born in 
                        New Hampshire
                     but was commissioned in the army from 
                        Michigan
                    . He was made an ensign in the First Infantry Regiment on January 3, 1812, and was sent
                    to Fort 
                        Wayne
                     in June. At the end of the year he was promoted to second lieutenant and was made a
                    first lieutenant in 1814 and a captain in 1820. For some reason he was dismissed from the army in
                    1821, was reinstated the next year, and dismissed finally in 1823. Most of his military service was
                    spent at Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , and for a few weeks in 1817 he was acting commandant.4 He married
                    Eliza, daughter of Major John Whistler, the builder and first commandant of Fort 
                        Dearborn
                    , 1803-1810, and commandant of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , 1814-1816.
            War was declared by the 
                        United States
                     on Great Britain, June 18, 1812. News of it was received at 
                        Detroit
                     on July 9. Fort Mackinac was not informed before it was attacked by the British and
                    captured on July 17. General William Hull, commanding the Army of the Northwest, opened a brave
                    offensive by invading 
                        Canada
                     from 
                        Detroit
                     and then hesitated. He felt that Fort 
                        Dearborn
                     (
                        Chicago
                    ) was at the mercy of the English or their Indian allies and decided that it should be
                    evacuated. Accordingly he wrote to the commandant, Captain Nathan Heald, on July 29, ordering him to
                    give up the post and retire to 
                        Detroit
                    . At the same time he wrote to the commandant of Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , Captain James Rhea, advising him of this decision. The resulting 
                  
                     4 Heitman, Historical Register of the 
                                    United States
                                 Army, 214; Bert J. Griswold, Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                , Gateway of the West, 1802-1819, in Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1916-), XV (1927), 360n.
               
                     actions are well known. The garrison of Fort 
                        Dearborn
                     was attacked right after it left the fort, on August 15, and more than half of the
                    party was massacred. Meanwhile, General Hull had abandoned 
                        Canada
                     and surrendered 
                        Detroit
                     without a fight on August 16. The Potawatomi then laid siege to Fort 
                        Wayne
                    , which was relieved only by the arrival of troops under General William Henry Harrison
                    on September 12. This is the background for Ensign Curtis' letter.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Fort 
                                    Wayne
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Septr. 21st 1812.
                                
                        Hond. Sir,
                        As our difficulties have in some measure subsided, and as I have been so fortunate as
                                    to survive the siege, it affords me the highest satisfaction to have it in my power
                                    to communicate to you some, among many, of the most important occurrences since my
                                    arrival at this place.
                        I arrived here on the 5th June last,5 and was, and still continue
                                    to be highly pleased with the place and my situation, except, perhaps I might have
                                    been better suited with a little more active employment than I have had till about
                                    twenty days past.
                        Nothing worthy of notice has transpired since my arrival here till the 7th Ulto. on
                                    which our Capt:6 received a note from Genl. Hull stating that
                                    Fort 
                                        Dearborn
                                     was to be evacuated and requesting him to communicate the same to Capt.
                                        Wells7 and Mr. Stickney8 and for 
                              
                                 5 "and killed two deer on the way"
                                            (Letter to Witherell).
                              
                                 6 James Rhea of 
                                                New Jersey
                                             served in the militia in 1791 and was with General Anthony 
                                                Wayne
                                             at Fallen Timbers in 1794. He was commissioned an ensign in the
                                            Eleventh Infantry in 1799, and the next year was transferred to the First
                                            Infantry. In 1807 he was made a captain. He was serving at 
                                                Detroit
                                             in 1810, when he was appointed commandant at Fort 
                                                Wayne
                                            , succeeding Captain Nathan Heald. In July, 1812, he conducted
                                            the funeral service of Chief Little Turtle. He resigned from the army at the
                                            end of the year. Heitman, Historical Register of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Army, 546; Griswold, Fort 
                                                    Wayne
                                                , Gateway of the West, in Indiana Historical Collections, XV, 302, 365.
                              
                                 7 William Wells was born in 
                                                Kentucky
                                             and stolen by the Miami as a boy. He married first Little
                                            Turtle's sister and then his daughter and fought against Harmar and
                                            St. Clair. Changing sides, he fought with 
                                                Wayne
                                             in 1794 and assisted him at the Treaty of Greenville. He was
                                            appointed Indian agent at Fort 
                                                Wayne
                                             in 1799 and was dismissed in 1809. He lost his life at Fort 
                                                Dearborn
                                             in 1812. Griswold, Fort 
                                                    Wayne
                                                , Gateway of the West, in Indiana Historical Collections, XV, 19, 30-32.
                              
                                 8 Benjamin F. Stickney came from Upper Sandusky, 
                                                Ohio
                                            , to succeed John Johnston as Indian agent at Fort 
                                                Wayne
                                             in 1811. He had married a daughter of John and Molly Stark of
                                            Revolutionary War fame. Stickney named his daughters after the states, and
                                            his three sons, One, Two, and Three. After the evacuation of Fort 
                                                Wayne
                                             in 1819, he was transferred to 
                                                Toledo
                                            , where he helped bring on the "
                                                Toledo
                                             War" with 
                                                Michigan
                                            . Of the siege he wrote later: "The commanding officer
                                            was drunk nearly all the time, and the two lieutenants [Ostrander and
                                            Curtis] were inefficient men, entirely unfit to hold commissions of any
                                            grade." His opinion is not borne out by the particulars of this
                                            letter. Ibid., 60; Slocum, History of the
                                                    Maumee River Basin, 281.
                           
                                     them to point out the most expeditious and safe
                                    rout possible for Capt. Heald9 to get to 
                                        Detroit
                                    . The gentlemen were consulted on the subject, and concluded, that by
                                    way of this place would be a safe and no doubt as near a rout as could be taken from 
                                        Chicago
                                     to 
                                        Detroit
                                    , except by water, which was intercepted by British vessels then on the
                                    lakes. Accordingly on the 8th Capt Wells, with a party of thirty five Indians10 and their pack horses and one man a private in our comy: with
                                    four of our pack horses, sat off for 
                                        Chicago
                                     to assist Capt: Heald in the evacuation of that post. On the 19th one
                                    of the party that went with Capt: Wells returned, bringing intelligence that Capt:
                                    Heald and his compy: with Capt: Wells, were all killed on the morning of the 15th a
                                    short distance from the Fort, the particulars of which he thus related. When they
                                    arrived at 
                                        Chicago
                                    
                           11 there were five hundred Indians encamped near the
                                    garrison, of various tribes, some Puttawatamies, Chippewas, Winnebaagoes and some
                                    Kickapoos. The next day, which must have been on the 14th a council was called by
                                    Capts: Heald and Wells in which they used every exertion to persuade the Indians to
                                    let the troops depart in peace: they even agreed to give up all the military arsenal
                                    and magazine stores together with the cattle and other stock then there, to which
                                    they consented; and the next morning while the bloodthirsty savages were killing and
                                    dressing their beeves, the troops left the garrison, the officers marching in front,
                                    the baggage waggon next, the women and children next to it, after them the soldiers
                                    and the thirty five Indians with their pack horses bringing up the rear. They had
                                    not passed half a mile12 from their little assylum, when looking
                                    back they discovered the approach of the enemy about four hundred in number, with
                                    their tomahawks raised ready to give the fatal blow. A kind of hollow square was
                                    immidiately formed encompassing the women and children, and one round13 fired at the enemy, but being overpowered by numbers, the brave, the
                                    innocent fair, and the helpless, fell a prey to the savage crewilty of the tomahawk
                                    and scalping-knife. These are the facts as stated by the first Indian that returned
                                    after Capt. Wells left this for 
                                        Chicago
                                    , but we have since been told by others, that Capt.
                        
                           
                              9 Nathan Heald (1775-1832) of 
                                            New Hampshire
                                         was commissioned an ensign in 1799 and rose to the rank of captain
                                        in 1807. He commanded Fort 
                                            Wayne
                                         from 1807 to 1810, when he was transferred to the command of Fort 
                                            Dearborn
                                        . With his wife, a niece of William Wells, he survived the massacre
                                        of the garrison although both were wounded. Promoted a major in August, 1812, he
                                        was honorably discharged in 1814 with a pension and died on his farm in 
                                            Missouri
                                        . Heitman, Historical Register of the 
                                                United States
                                             Amy, 233; Griswold, Fort Waw, Gateway of ths
                                            West, in Indiana Historical Collections, XV, 249.
                           
                              10 "Miami Indians" (Letter to
                                        Witherell). Wells was also accompanied by Corporal Walter K. Jordan of the
                                        garrison. John D. Barn-tart, "A New Letter About the Massacre at Fort 
                                            Dearborn
                                        ," in the Indiana Magazine of History (
                                            Bloomington
                                        , Indiana, 1905-), XLI (1945), 189.
                           
                              11 "on the 13th" (Letter to Witherell).
                           
                              12 "one mile" (Letter to Witherell).
                           
                              13"two rounds" (Letter to
                                    Witherell).
                        
                        
                        Heald and lady,14 Lt. Helms15 and wife, Mr.
                                        Kinzie16 and wife, and nineteen soldiers are made prisoners
                                    and sent to 
                                        Detroit
                                    , from whence they are to be conveyed to Montreal.17
                                    Thus ends the fate of 
                                        Chicago
                                    ;18 the success of this post, and the fate of its
                                    late, worthy and intrepid commander I now proceed to relate, and in some instances
                                    to particularize. The Indians since the news of 
                                        Chicago
                                    , except some of the Miamies, have expressed and manifested a verry
                                    different conduct from anything hitherto observed in them. Several attempts have,
                                    within five weeks, been made to send expresses through to 
                                        Detroit
                                     and other places, which have failed either by being killed or driven
                                    back by Indians. A Mr. S. Johnston19 in attempting to go through
                                    to Piqua, 
                                        Ohio
                                    , on the evening of the 28th Ulto. and within half a mile from the
                                    garrison, was shot, tomahawked, scalped, stabbed in 23 places, and beaten and
                                    bruised in the most barbarous manner. The next day an Indian came within hearing of
                                    our centinels and hailed, he was answered by our interpreter and asked what he
                                    wanted? to which he replied, admittance into the garrison, and through consent of
                                    our capt: was ordered to come in. This was the first instance of an Indian
                                    hesitating or expressing any fear in approaching the garrison. His business was to
                                    request of our capt: a white flag, that some of the Chiefs might come and speak with
                                    him and the Indn. agent, a Mr. Stickney. The flag was given out and the chiefs came,
                                    but would not acknowledge that they knew anything on the subject of Mr.
                                    Johnston's death, or who killed him. They requested the flag for the next
                                    day, but it was not returned for several days; during which time, they were
                                    constantly killing our hogs, driving away our cattle, robbing and plundering our
                                    cornfields and guardains and carrying away the effects of them within point blank
                                    musket shot of 
                              
                                 14 "both wounded" (Letter to
                                            Witherell).
                              
                                 15 Linai T. Helm (died 1838), of 
                                                Virginia
                                             was commissioned an ensign in the First Infantry in 1807. He
                                            was made a second lieutenant the next year and became a captain in April,
                                            1814. Then he resigned from the army in September. He was sent to Fort 
                                                Dearborn
                                             from 
                                                Detroit
                                             in 1811, where he married the.stepdaughter of John Kinzie. They
                                            were divorced in 1829. Heitman, Historical Register of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Army, 335; Quaife, 
                                    
                                                    Chicago
                                                 and the Old Northwest, 276.
                              
                                 16 John Kinzie (1763-1828) was a trader on the Maumee
                                            until the Battle of Fallen Timbers, 1794. Then he moved to the St.
                                                Joseph River and thence to 
                                                Chicago
                                             in 1804. He was treated as a kind of neutral in the massacre at
                                            Fort 
                                                Dearborn
                                             and passed through it without harm, but his trade was ruined by
                                            the war. He, however, returned to 
                                                Chicago
                                             in 1816, served as interpreter for awhile, and then resumed
                                            trading. Quaife, 
                                    
                                                    Chicago
                                                 and the Old Northwest, passim.
                              
                              
                                 17 "or Quebec, with other prisoners taken at
                                            the capitulation, which perhaps you know better than I do. (Letter to
                                            Witherell). Quaife says that out of fifty-five regulars, twelve militia,
                                            plus Wells and Kinzie's family, twenty-six regulars, all the
                                            militia, Wells, two women, and twelve children were killed. Ibid., 230.
                              
                                 18 "and its worthy commander"
                                            (Letter to Witherell).
                              
                                 19 Stephen Johnston, brother of John Johnston, had
                                            escorted the women from Fort 
                                                Wayne
                                             to Piqua, 
                                                Ohio
                                            , before the siege began. He was a clerk for Stickney. He was
                                            shot in company with two others on his way to Piqua to see his wife. His
                                            body was brought in by White Raccoon, a young chief. B. J. Griswold, Pictorial History of Fort 
                                                    Wayne
                                                
                                  (Fort 
                                                Wayne
                                            , Indiana, 1917), 200, 202.
                           
                                     us, and we poor soldiers,
                                    (from cowardise or some other agency in our Capt:) were obliged to suffer these
                                    repeated insults, to pass with impunity. On the evening of the 4th Instant the flag
                                    returned accompanied by Winnemac,20 five Medals, the long days
                                    of June, Chappune [?] and two others, and when asked whether they intended to remain
                                    at peace with us or declare themselves in an open state of war fare? Winnemac being
                                    the principal chief among them, observed, "I dont know what to tell you,
                                    but you know that Mackinac is taken, 
                                        Detroit
                                     is in the hands of the British,21 and you must
                                    expect to fall next, and probably in a few days." Shortly after this, the
                                    Capt: invited Winnemac over to his quarters and after having drank three glasses of
                                    wine with him, rose from his seat, took the savage rascal by the hand and observed,
                                    to the astonishment of every one present, "my good friend I love you, I
                                    will fight for you, I will die by your side,"22 and
                                    then asked him to come and breakfast with him the next morning. Winnemac retired to
                                    his camp, but instead of accepting the invitation to breakfast the next morning,
                                    sent five of his young warriours, who secreted themselves behind one of our root
                                    houses, and at six oclock A M, shot at and killed two of our men, as they were
                                    returning from the necessary near that place. This made an impression upon the mind
                                    of every one in the garrison which will not easily be forgotten. The impression,
                                    however, that it made on the mind of Capt: James Rhea commanding, or attempting to
                                    command, may be excepted to, for he was as drunk as a fool all night, and had not
                                    yet come to his perfect senses, if he ever had any. From the movement of the Indians
                                    during the day which we discouvered at a distance, Lt. Ostrander23 and myself expected some sport before the next morning, and we were not
                                    disappointed in our conjectures. Everything remained in perfect tranquility till
                                    about eight P M. when a general shout was heared from the Indians, succeeded by a
                                    firing of small arms on every side of us. The alarm post of every man, as well as
                                    the respective duties of Mr. Ostrander and myself having been mutually agreed upon
                                    in the course of the day, the enemy had not time to fire a second 
                              
                                 20 Winamac (Ouenemek Wenameac, Wenameck, Winemac,
                                            Winne-meg, Wynemac, etc.) (died 1821), was a Potawatomi chief who was
                                            reported to have fought at the Battle of 
                                                Tippecanoe
                                            , 1811. He then became friendly to the Americans and carried
                                            Hull's orders to Heald early in August. He visited 
                                                Washington
                                             several times. His village was near the present town of
                                            Winamac. Frederick W. Hodge (ed.), Handbook of American Indians
                                                North of Mexico, Bulletin 30, Smithsonian Institution, Bureau of
                                            American Ethnology (2 parts, 
                                                Washington
                                            , 1907-1910), part 2 (1910), 957. Five Medals was a Potawatomi
                                            chief associated with Little Turtle. His village was destroyed September 16,
                                            1812. Griswold, Fort 
                                                    Wayne
                                                , Gateway o the West, 43, 73; Slocum, History of the Maumee River Basin, 282, calls
                                            him Chief Oxnose of Elk-hart River.
                              
                                 21 "and 
                                                Chicago
                                             has fallen" (Letter to Witherell).
                              
                                 22 "'You must save me!' and
                                            then gave him a half dollar as a token of friendship." (Letter to
                                            Witherell).
                              
                                 23 Philip Ostrander (died 1813) served as sergeant in
                                            the First Infantry before being commissioned in 1806. He became a second
                                            lieutenant in 1808 and a first lieutenant October 30, 1812. He was sent to
                                            Fort 
                                                Wayne
                                             in 1807. Late in April, 1813, he was arrested there and died in
                                            confinement, July 30. Heitman, Historical Register of the 
                                                    United States
                                                 Army, 501; Griswold, Fort 
                                                    Wayne
                                                , Gateway of the West, 258, 390.
                           
                                     time, before we were prepared and opened two
                                        broadsides24 upon them at the same time. We exchanged three
                                    general shots, when I discouvered, from the flash of their guns, that they were
                                    secreted behind the buildings, fences, and shrubberies at some distance, and I
                                    having command of the musketry below, ordered them to cease firing till further
                                    orders, thinking the enemy would conclud that we were frightened or that we were
                                    tenacious of ammunition, and would probably venture a little nearer. Mr. Ostrander
                                    having charge of the Block rooms, above, as soon as the Indians had collected more
                                    in a boddy, sent a few shells among them which caused them soon to disperse, and we
                                    presume, must have raked the shins of many. Scattering shots were received for the
                                    remainder of the night. They kept up a firing the next day from behind buildings,
                                    fences &c. till about three oclock P.M. in order, we presume, to disturb our
                                    rest, knowing that we had been all night on the alert. But when night25 came we were ready and active. And having heared, of old,
                                    "that caution is the mother of safty" we had the roofs of our
                                    buildings wet, also the pickets on the inside, our water casks all filled and every
                                    bucket and kettle arranged in the most convenient places. We had no apprehensions of
                                    danger except by fire, which they might have sat to the pickets, by creeping up, of
                                    a dark night with a bundle of light combustibles invelloping fire, and got off again
                                    without being discouvered till it had taken. In order therefore, to prevent them
                                    from approaching undiscouvered, to the pickets, I suggested a plan which readily met
                                    the approbation of Mr. Ostrander and others in the garrison and immediately put it
                                    in opperation. I procured from the Factor's Store, about thirty Bells of
                                    the size of a common half pt: tumbler, and collected a sufficient quantity of Bed
                                    cord and other ropes to reach round the garrison, on the outer side, about twelve
                                    feet from the pickets. The cord was stretched on crotches about ten inches from the
                                    ground, and the Bells suspended from it at convenient distances, so that anything
                                    touching the cord at any place round the works would cause the toll of at least two
                                    of Bells.26
                        
                        The siege continued from the morning of the 5th till the morning of the 10th without
                                    cessation and the fears and troubles of our worthy commander continually drowned in
                                    the excessive use of ardent spirits. 
                              
                                 24 "three broadsides" (Letter to
                                            Witherell).
                              
                                 25 "of the 6th" (Letter to
                                            Witherell).
                              
                                 26 The several lines about the bell business were
                                            omitted from the letter to Witherell. In their place, Curtis wrote:
                                            "Between 8 and 9 p. m. we heard a most tremendous noise, singing,
                                            dancing, and whooping and when they arrived within a proper distance they
                                            hailed and asked us in plain English what we intendel to do whether
                                            surrender or fight? They said that they had 600 men with them and that they
                                            expected 700 more the next day, and that in three days' time they
                                            would show us what they could do. We answered them that we were ready, and
                                            bade them come on; that we were determined to a man to fight till we should
                                            lose our lives before we would yield an inch to them, and then we gave them
                                            a general shout round the works in true Aborigine style which they instantly
                                            returned, commencing at the same time a general fire which was kept up on
                                            both sides wit% much warmth till about 11 o'clock,
                                            without the loss or injury of a man on our side; but from appearance, they
                                            must have lost many as they were very quiet till towards
                                        night."
                           
                                     He committed many abuses upon his subalterns
                                    and others, and was heard several times to exclaim "O my money! if I had
                                    sent it with my poor wife it might have don her some good, but now it must be
                                    lost," and at the moment when the most perfect order and silence were
                                    necessary to be obsirved, in order the better to hear and discouver the movement of
                                    the enemy without, he was the most troublesome and noysy within the garrison. Our
                                    apprehensions from the disorder and confusion he created among the men were our
                                    greatest fears; we had every thing prepared at one time during the siege, to silence
                                    his clamour and abuses by coersive measures, but fortunately for him (and perhaps
                                    for us) he was apprised by some of his friends, that something of that kind was in
                                    contemplation against him, which caused him (we presume) to conduct with a little
                                    more silence and circumspection; but observed, shortly afterwards, that if the
                                    Indians or British were to bring one or more pieces of cannon from 
                                        Chicago
                                     even of three pound mettal, and plant them near the garrison, we should
                                    be obliged to surrender, and when told by his subalterns that the first man or
                                    person in the garrison who should offer or propose a surrender to the enemy, at the
                                    approach of no heavier mettal than three pounders, should loose his life, he offered
                                    no resentment, but remained silent on the subject. After the 10th we remained in
                                    tranquillity, but could see frequently large parties of Indians between that time
                                    and the 12th running across the river and the paries [prairies], and many of them
                                    without arms. We were at a loss to determine the cause of this singular movement,
                                    but concluded that they must have seen some movement of an army between this and
                                    Piqua, as they were running from that quarter. About three oclock P M. of the 12th
                                    to our great joy we beheld the approach of an army of about three thousand men
                                    commanded by Genl. Harrison. You may rest assured sir, that we lost no time, after
                                    the Genl. had pitched upon and regulated his encampment, in making known to him the
                                    meritorious conduct of our intrepid Capt:
                        The Genl. expressed great astonishment at the breach of confidence in that great man,
                                    and requested the particulars to be reduced to writing and presented to him in due
                                    form, which was soon done, and about 10 the next morning, the capt: had the honor
                                    and sublime pleasure of a visit from one of the Genl's: Aids, requesting
                                    him to deliver up his long knife. Shortly afterwards the Genl. sent to us to know
                                    whether we would withdraw the arrest, in case the Capt: would resign,27 to which we consented, on consideration of his having been a long time
                                    in the service, and more particularly on account of his young family. His
                                    resignation was sent in, to take effect on the 31st of Decr. next and he left this
                                    on the 14th for the state of 
                                        Ohio
                                    
                           28 where he had, some weeks previously, sent his
                                    wife and family. The army is to leave this in a few days to descend the Miami to
                                    Defyance where they are to fortify and then procede to the foot of rappids, there to
                                    be joined by the Pennsylvanians and Virginians making an army in all of about
                                    10,000, a 
                              
                                 27 "We at first declined, but on further
                                            request of the General, we consented." (Letter to Witherell).
                              
                                 28 Letter to Witherell ends here, except for a closing
                                            line. The reference to Lieutenant Whistler that follows was inserted earlier
                                            in the letter to Witherell.
                           
                                     part of which, it is supposed will visit 
                                        Detroit
                                     and Malden this season, Genl. Harrison ranks high in this army, and it
                                    is even said that a 
                                        Washington
                                     was never more popular in camp than this young Genl.
                        Since my appointment in the army I have never had occation till now, of making any
                                    communications to my superiors in that establishment; you will therefore have the
                                    goodness to excuse any liberties I may [have] taken in this, and at all events
                                    pardon me in the profusion with which I am guilty in the unlimited use of paper.
                        I omitted in its proper place to tell you that Lt: Whistler29 has
                                    not witnessed any of the scenes at this place since the 15th of July last, being on
                                    furlough or permission to 
                                        Detroit
                                     after his wife who was there on a visit. He was to have returned at
                                    muster, but we have heared nothing of him personally since.
                        My best respects to Madam 
                                        Kingsbury
                                    , James, Julia & Cushing.
                        With a due sense of your goodness Sir,
                        
                                    I subscribe myself
                                    Your Obt: & verry
                                    Humble Servt.
                                    D. Curtis
                                
                         Col. J. 
                                        Kingsbury
                                     commdg: 
                                        Newport
                                    , 
                                        Rhode Island
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  29 William Whistler (died 1863), son of Major John Whistler, was
                        commissioned a second lieutenant in the First Infantry in 1801. The next year he married and in
                        1803 was assigned to Fort 
                            Dearborn
                         under his father. While on leave in 
                            Detroit
                         he was captured along with his father in Hull's surrender. Whistler was
                        promoted to captain at the end of 1812 and became colonel of the Fourth Infantry in 1845. He
                        retired from the army in 1861. Heitman, Historical Register of the 
                                United States
                             Army, 689; Quaife, 
                     
                                Chicago
                             and the Old Northwest, 168-169.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Journals and Indian Paintings of George Winter, 1837-1839. (
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana Historical Society, 1948, pp. xix, 208. Frontispiece, thirty illustrations,
                    and index. $12.50.)
            By way of introduction and first impression, this is the most beautiful book this reviewer has ever
                    been asked to describe, and in some respects one of the most complicated. It is made up of several
                    features, all essential to the complete work; an excellent introduction by Howard H. Peck-ham,
                    secretary of the Indiana Historical Society; a sketch of "Winter, the Artist," by
                    Wilbur D. Peat; and a biographical sketch by Gayle Thornbrough. Then follow two journals by Winter
                    himself. First, a "Journal of a Visit to Lake Kee-wau-nay and Crooked Creek,
                    1837," and second, "Journal of a Visit to Deaf Man's Village,
                    1839." And throughout, handsome reproductions of Winter's sketches and paintings
                    of Indians and landscapes of their country in Indiana.
            George Winter, the youngest of a large English family, was born near Southampton in 1809. His early
                    education, which included instruction in painting, seems to have been that of the average middle
                    class family of moderate means. Most of his family, including his parents, removed to the 
                        United States
                     early in the century, but George did not follow for some years, and during the next few
                    years continued in 
                        New York
                     his study of painting.
            Winter arrived in America on July 11, 1830, while the press of the country was seething with the
                    controversy precipitated by President Jackson's message to Congress asking for legislation
                    to bring about the removal of the Indians from east of the Mississippi River to
                    the west of that stream. A short time before, on May 28, Jackson's Bill was enacted by
                    Congress with a majority of one vote. Winter was thus introduced to a field of interest that was
                    destined to influence his life profoundly. Immediately after the passage of Jackson's Bill,
                    removal of the southern Indians was begun, and before many years most of the Five Civilized Tribes
                    had been removed to the future 
                        Oklahoma
                    . During those years negotiations with the Indians east of the 
                        Mississippi
                     were constantly under way, and the papers were filled with accounts of these
                    activities. Distinguished  writers visited the Indians and wrote
                    accounts that were published and widely read. Among these was 
                        Washington
                     Irving, who visited the future 
                        Oklahoma
                     in 1832 and wrote absorbing accounts of the Indians that were published in the
                    principal newspapers. In April, 1834, B. H. Coates delivered before the Historical Society of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     an address on the subject, which was widely circulated. On October 24 of the same year
                    a paper entitled "A Discourse on the Surviving Remnant of the Indian Race in the 
                        United States
                    " was delivered before the Society for the Commemorating of the Landing of
                    William Penn, which was published to the world. In that year, 1834, George Catlin came to the Indian
                    Territory and accompanied the celebrated dragoon expedition to the remote Comanche villages, and
                    during this adventure painted many Indian portraits that became part of the well-known Catlin
                    Collection.
            All these activities greatly interested Winter, who later was influenced to seek opportunities for
                    seeing these Indians and painting them—a scheme which became the great object of his
                    life.
            Winter, in 1835 or 1836, went to 
                        Cincinnati
                     while the people of 
                        Ohio
                     were absorbed with the subject of the removal of the Indians from that state,
                    substantial part of Shawnee, 
                        Delaware
                    , and Seneca Indians already having removed to the west. During Winter's
                    residence in 
                        Ohio
                    , treaty negotiations under way continued to be of paramount interest. Emigrating
                    parties were slowly being organized and started on their way. By 1835 most of the 
                        Ohio
                     Indians had passed out of that state. Whether this was the reason does not appear
                    positively, but at this juncture Winter removed to 
                        Logansport
                    , Indiana, where Indian removal was still a live subject.
            Eighteen treaties had been made with the scattered bands of Potawatomi Indians and spasmodic efforts
                    at organizing and removing parties of this tribe had accomplished little. When Winter came to
                    Indiana, he located at Logans-port which was a sort of center of Potawatomi population. Miami
                    Indians also were collected in that part of the state. Here Winter found himself in his element, and
                    in the surrounding country he did most of his painting and study of the Indians.
            As one turns the pages of this sumptuous example of  the
                    printer's art, he will be charmed not alone by the overall beauty of the book and the
                    lovely reproductions of Winter's sketches and paintings of Indians and beautiful Indiana
                    landscapes, but by spritely, absorbing, and authentic accounts of the Indians seen by Winter. But by
                    none more than that of Winter's account of the recent startling discovery of the long lost
                    Frances Slocum, the five-year-old white child, stolen by the 
                        Delaware
                     in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in 1778, nearly sixty years before, and who, when painted by Winter, was an old woman,
                    member of the Miami tribe of Indians, the mother of grown Indian daughters. The reader will be
                    touched by the reply of the captive to her brother Joseph, of Wilkes-Barre, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , who came out to seek his sister's return to her family: "
                    'I cannot, I cannot,' she said; 'I am an old tree, I cannot move about; I
                    was a sapling when they took me away. It is all gone past. I am afraid I should die and never come
                    back. I am happy here. I shall die here and lie in that graveyard, and they will raise the pole at
                    my grave, and with the white flag on it, and the Great Spirit will know where to find me. I should
                    not be happy with any white relatives. I am glad to see them, but I cannot go. I cannot go. I have
                    done.'"
            One feels a particular sense of obligation to the Indiana Historical Soicety, to the Lilly Endowment,
                    and all others who contributed to the production of this lovely book.
            Grant Foreman Muskogee, 
                            Oklahoma
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               The Disruption of American Democracy. By Roy 
                        Franklin
                     Nichols. (
                        New York
                    , The Macmillan Company, 1948, pp. xviii, 612. Bibliography, illustrations, appendix,
                    notes, and index. $7.50.)
            This is the story of how the Democratic party went to pieces in the period 1856-1860. It is also an
                    attempt to reveal the part which politicians played in bringing on the American Civil War. The
                    author confesses unblushingly that he is writing political history and implies, at least, that he
                    holds the politician responsible for pushing issues beyond settlement by the peaceful democratic
                    process. His thesis is that the American people have left the formulation and execution of policies
                    to political parties and those whom the parties put forward to hold office. So when, in 1860, the
                         Democratic party, the last to represent the whole nation,
                    went to pieces and a purely sectional party triumphed, a stalemate developed in government and
                    progress by rational discussion and compromise became impossible. Then men resorted to force.
            The first part of the volume deals with the election of James Buchanan, in 1856, the problems he
                    faced in satisfying the demands of the local groups, and the difficulty of getting anything done
                    amid the press and pull of sectional rivalries. It then centers attention on the
                    "territorial nightmares" that came with 
                        Kansas
                     and 
                        Nebraska
                     which prepared the way for a split in the party and its tragic breakup at 
                        Charleston
                    .
            The work is rich in detail. With far better understanding than any previous historian, Professor
                    Nichols traces Buchanan's effort to reorganize the party and to restore its unity and
                    strength. He understands the problems of patronage, the power of money in politics, the influence of
                    weather and hard times and even of religious stirrings on the course of events. His story of 
                        Kansas
                     comes nearer being satisfactory than any yet written. He sees the importance of lands,
                    speculators, adventurers, etc., in the troubles there and reduces slavery to its proper place. He
                    stresses the part which frequent elections had in stirring passions and keeping issues at white
                    heat. He knows that Republicans as well as Democrats were doing little to help the nation and much
                    to strengthen themselves.
            As Professor Nichols tells the story the quarrel between Stephen A. Douglas and the administration
                    was simply the focal point at which an impossible situation headed up. The nation was rushing ahead
                    towards complex interdependence in business and social relationships. The parties, however, were
                    still strictly local units loosely bound together. Economic interests, social values and the
                    fundamental assumptions which men made, not only produced a "federal republic" but
                    a "cultural federalism" as well. Something more than old-fashioned politics was
                    needed to meet the present and to face the future. The politicians of that era could not supply it.
                    They could only play the old game. At 
                        Charleston
                    , in 1860, the Administration forces joined the rabid Southerners against Douglas, while
                    the 
                        New York
                     delegation fished in troubled waters for their own selfish benefit.  Southern radicals left the convention with every expectation of being
                    recalled; the Douglas forces, with equal blindness, refused to seek unity. The last national tie for
                    most Americans thus broke and left no organized body working for the larger national good.
            And while the politicians played their game, the reformers north and south, charged every issue with
                    emotion. Every conflict was a struggle between "right and wrong."
                    "Hyperemotionalism," as Professor Nichols calls it, had prepared men for killing
                    but not for compromise. What the real public opinion was, no one will ever know. There was no way of
                    finding it out and the "blind operators of local political machinery" did not care
                    anyway.
            Avery Craven The University of 
                            Chicago
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Grass Roots History. By Theodore C. Blegen. (
                        Minneapolis
                    , The University of 
                        Minnesota
                     Press, 1947, pp. x, 266. Index. $3.00.)
            In this group of collected essays Professor Blegen makes an eloquent plea for the study of
                    America's truly forgotten men, the great undistinguished and simple folk of the past who
                    cleared the nation's first wilderness, plowed its fields, and built it cities. To
                    understand the much troubled and troubling foreign world today, the author argues, the American must
                    first understand himself. But to understand the American present, we must reach back through the
                    perspective of time, back to our very grass roots. And these are to be found not alone in the heroic
                    figures of past politics, battlefields, and polite literature. These are just the frosting, and to
                    get at the real American cake we must go back to the great masses of our immigrant fathers and their
                    sons and daughters, to their day-to-day lives, to their letters, their language, their amusements,
                    and folkways. It is only here that we will find the basic aspirations, prejudices, and assumptions
                    that explain what America was and is. The fundamental supposition upon which this volume rests is
                    that the American culture of today is the product not of the few but of the great masses, and that
                    we have as historians sinfully neglected these unimportant individuals who made an important many.
                    "The pivot of history," Professor Blegen 
                    writes, "is not the uncommon but the usual, and the true makers of history are
                    'the people yes.'"
            Upon the basis of the above assumptions, the author defends the study of regional and social history
                    against all comers. The charge so often made that regional and social history are provincial, he
                    says, arose from an inverted sense of what was important. "It rejected the near-at-hand as
                    local and insignificant" and "this cultivated the far-away without fully
                    understanding it because it did not understand the near at hand, without sensing too, that the far
                    away may in its inner meaning be near-at-hand." Therefore, in this search for the real
                    American past, the author argues, there is little that is too insignificant to pass by without
                    careful scrutiny. Catalogues of folk sayings, proverbs, dances, and even lists of cooking utensils,
                    textiles, and household wares may all be important to the quest.
            Having made this plea, Professor Blegen then presents a series of extremely interesting essays on
                    immigration and middle western regional history by which he seeks to prove his points. Included are
                    studies of immigrant songs, a field in which the author is an expert, immigrant letters, guidebooks,
                    and the contributions to frontier life by women and children. Among the essays on the regional side
                    are accounts of the fashionable travel on the upper 
                        Mississippi
                    , of the first setting down of the Sioux language, of early life in 
                        St. Paul
                     and St. Anthony as revealed in newspaper advertisements, and of frontier libraries. The
                    abstracts from an unprinted diary of Charles Francis Adams, Jr., written as he accompanied his
                    father on a stumping tour of the upper 
                        Mississippi
                     country during the campaign of 1896, seem to fall without the structure of the book.
            All of the included essays, many of which have been printed elsewhere, are extremely well-written and
                    highly entertaining. But one wonders at times whether some of them are really good ammunition for
                    the author's stated objective. There is no question about the historical interest of the
                    immigrant songs, for example. But what of their historical significance? Beyond the feelings of
                    local patriotism, loneliness, and occasional despair, what do they tell us about these long ago
                    folks? After all, did they sing them to register their real feelings or simply to give vent to their
                    desire for melody? In this light are they any more significant 
                    for their generation than the crooner's banal words of today are for ours?
            But this is democratic history. And in an age where the importance of the so-called
                    superman—whether he be the dictator, general, atomic scientist, or the college
                    administrator—is continually emphasized, these essays are a salutary influence. More than
                    that, they are sometimes a pointed answer to the Pareto's doctrine of the elite and
                    Toynbee's creative few. If we are to preserve democracy, we must respect it, and there is
                    no better way to obtain a brimming respect for the institution than to look at the whole of the
                    American past as Professor Blegen has done.
            George E. Mo wry State University of 
                            Iowa
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               Lincoln Runs for Congress. By Donald W. Riddle. A Publication of the Abraham
                    Lincoln Association, 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               . (
                  New Brunswick, New
                    Jersey
               , Rutgers University Press, 1948, pp. ix, 217. Index, bibliography,
                    appendix, maps, earliest portrait of Abraham Lincoln frontispiece. $3.00.)
            The story of Lincoln's efforts to become a congressman, for which there had been no adequate
                    monograph, is presented by Mr. Riddle of the University of 
                        Illinois
                     (
                        Chicago
                     Undergraduate Division) against the background of pioneer 
                        Illinois
                     politics. Early 
                        Illinois
                     was overwhelmingly Democratic; in the thirties Lincoln was in the minority as a Whig
                    member of the legislature. In all 
                        Illinois
                    , though there were perhaps two other districts where a Whig might have a sporting
                    chance, there was only one "Whig stronghold"— the centrally located
                    seventh congressional district. It was a coveted prize to get the party nomination from that
                    district, and sometime in the winter of 1842-1843 Lincoln resolved to work hard for it. The idea
                    that Lincoln lacked ambition is simply one of those misconceptions that cluster around this
                    half-understood figure.
            Having shown this ambition, along with conditioning factors in state and district politics, Riddle
                    gives a detailed account of Lincoln's determined nomination drive. The treatment of this
                    phase involved the story of the "Whig junto" of 
                        Springfield
                    , the delicate adjustment between three friendly rivals—Abraham Lincoln, John
                    J. Hardin, and Edward D.  Baker, all of whom were to meet
                    violent deaths—, maneuvers in the party nominating convention (a new device), personal
                    solicitation, and discreet use of every trick in the party game. Lincoln's chief obstacle
                    was the able and popular Hardin, against whom, but in a manner "scrupulously
                    fair," he applied the rule "Turn about is fair play." That Hardin
                    withdrew after striving for another term, and that Lincoln was nominated, are evidences of the
                    prairie lawyer's successful strategy, persistence, and timing.
            In the campaign Lincoln had to contend with the rugged and popular preacher, Peter Cartwright, and
                    strangely enough, he had to live down the accusation that he was "the candidate of pride,
                    wealth, and aristocratic family distinction." There was little in that contest that was
                    highly inspiring, but that belongs to the nature of the subject, and to the author's
                    faithful, unexaggerated reporting. It is pointed out, truly enough, that this and that subject were
                        not the "issues" of the campaign. 
                        Texas
                     had already been annexed; the 
                        Oregon
                     question had been settled by diplomacy; Whigs and Democrats were alike in favoring the
                    newly begun Mexican War so far as this congressional election was concerned; Lincoln even made a
                    "war speech" (pp. 169-170); both parties opposed abolitionism. (It was later that
                    Lincoln courageously contended that the launching of the Mexican War had been unjustified.) If the
                    tariff was an issue, it is doubtful how many votes in agricultural 
                        Illinois
                     were influenced in the Whig sense by that factor. After all, the story of the contest
                    boils down, not to issues, but to politics, parties, and personalities. One of the uninspiring
                    factors was the "whispering campaign" in which the effort was made to brand
                    Lincoln as an infidel. His convincing published answer, neglected until recently, is one of the
                    important documents bearing upon his attitude toward religion.
            In the election, Lincoln's plurality over Cartwright was 1,511; in the balloting he came off
                    much better than his Whig predecessors, Hardin in 1843 and Baker in 1844. Not only did this election
                    give him his sole national elective office prior to the presidency; his experience as leader in a
                    minority party—his strategy, tact, and maneuvers in that capacity— were a part
                    of his background as minority President. It should also be noted that in his Whig days he labored in
                    a party whose Southern connections were always of primary importance.
            
            It is a satisfaction to read the Riddle volume. With its close examination of sources, readable
                    style, handsome format, illustrations, maps, appendix, and bibliography, it adds grace to Lincoln
                    shelves and interest to the story of American politics.
            James G. Randall University of 
                            Illinois
                        
               
            
         
         
            
               General Gage in America, Being Principally a History of His Role in the American
                        Revolution. By John Richard Alden. (
                  Baton
                        Rouge, Louisiana
                State
                    University Press, 1948, pp. xi, 313. Map, illustrations, bibliographical note, and index.
                    $4.00.)
            Despite the limitation imposed by the title, this first book-length study of Thomas Gage (c.
                    1719-1787) is the nearest thing to a biography we are ever likely to see. Though the details of
                    Gage's early life remain somewhat meager, Dr. Alden has used the Gage Papers at the
                    Clements Library exhaustively, the family papers from Firle Place, Sussex, and the manuscripts of
                    many of Gage's contemporaries. His knowledge of the printed sources on American colonial
                    history is extensive, as has been demonstrated in his earlier work, John Stuart and the
                        Southern Colonial Frontier.
            
            The general who emerges from this intensive examination is a man of competence, moderation, good
                    sense, and considerable penetration. If he was not in advance of his time as a thinker on
                    imperialistic affairs, he was far from being an oppressive reactionary. But he almost constantly
                    occupied an embarrassing or impossible position. Gage was continually bossed by willful and
                    uncomprehending ministers who expected him to enforce their stupid policies, and by giving him
                    discretionary power hoped to evade responsibility if those policies backfired. Gage was not to be
                    caught in such traps and countered by insisting that ministers should make up their minds and
                    deliver him orders.
            He accurately assessed the problem of protecting the newly won West in 1763, but a dilatory and
                    changing cabinet came to no decision until 1768. After war began, he sat tight in 
                        Boston
                     because he was expected to subdue a rebellion with too few troops, but he suggested at
                    the outset the only alternatives to defeat: a naval blockade of the  colonies, or an army equal in size to the rebel forces. When he
                    returned to 
                        England
                     late in 1775, after twenty years of service in America, the author declares
                    "it was his hard lot simultaneously to be abused by his American enemies and to be deserted
                    by his compatriots." Dr. Alden's summary analysis of the man forms a splendid
                    commentary on colonial politics.
            The author's interpretation of Gage includes correction of an earlier belief that he acted
                    on his own initiative in ordering his troops to march to Concord in April, 1775. Gage's
                    great popularity in 
                        New York
                    , his headquarters for ten years, is made known, and it is denied that he accepted any
                    interest in the 
                        Illinois
                     Company. Alden takes issue with a more recent characterization of Gage's power
                    and position in America as that of a viceroy. And in marking that Gage accurately prophesied what
                    would be required to subdue the Americans, the author labels him "the Cassandra of the
                    first British empire."
            Dr. Alden's style shows great improvement, perhaps because the book was not written for a
                    faculty committee. The new volume is highly readable. It has pace, smoothness, variety, and flashes
                    of humor. There are enough footnotes to satisfy the most scrupulous scholar—rather more
                    than might be expected after the author's declaration against making "a fetish of
                    documentation." The book can be recommended to other investigators who have thought of
                    preparing biographies of eighteenth-century characters. 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press is to be congratulated upon its enterprise in publishing this
                    work. It has turned out an attractive and dignified volume at a reasonable price.
            Howard H. Peckham Indiana Historical Bureau
            
         
         
            
               Agricultural Literature and the Early 
                            Illinois
                         Farmer. By Richard Bardolph. Volume XXIX, Numbers 1 and 2, 
                  
                            Illinois
                         Studies in the Social Sciences. (
                  Urbana, Illinois
               , The
                    University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1948, pp. 200. Appendixes, bibliography, and index. $3.00 clothbound,
                    $2.00 paperbound.)
            One of our prominent social historians has observed that in dealing with agricultural history
                    "there seems to be no substitute in first-class historical analysis for a high degree  of familiarity with the homely and intimate experiences of the
                    specific… period." If this is true there seems to be evidence that much of our
                    existing history of American agriculture suffers from this lack. In fact one can almost say that
                    many of the histories of farming were written without consideration of the farmer or the immediate
                    influences that surrounded him. With rare exceptions, one is left with the impression that new
                    crops, new farm animals and new types of machinery, just sprang into being and the factors or
                    agencies that motivated the farmer to accept these new ideas were ignored.
            This monographic study has not neglected some of these agencies of diffusion. The author's
                    purpose is to show the influences of various forms of agricultural literature on actual practices
                    upon the 
                        Illinois
                     farmer during the first seventy years of the nineteenth century. Although he has
                    limited his study to the farmers of this state, the work will have a wider significance, for what
                    happened in 
                        Illinois
                     was fairly typical of that which occurred in the 
                        United States
                     as a whole. He makes no effort to cover all the agricultural agencies that came in
                    contact with the 
                        Illinois
                     farmer, and he recognizes the influence of others such as the local and state fairs and
                    agricultural societies. He has, however, left them for a future study.
            Dr. Bardolph begins with a lengthy chapter devoted to the rise of books on husbandry, tracing the
                    evolution in the 
                        United States
                    , with some account of English and continental antecedents. This was necessary since
                    these European publications served as the basis for agricultural knowledge in America for some
                    years. Following this chapter on books of husbandry, there are five more which are largely concerned
                    with the rise, together with an analysis of the content of the agricultural instruction provided in
                    the newspapers, advertising circulars, published proceedings and transactions of societies, and the
                    farm periodicals of the state. Much space is given throughout the study to leading personalities and
                    their works of the period, both within and without the state.
            The author has analyzed carefully the growth, as well as the content of these various publications.
                    From a selection of over three hundred various newspapers he found that about one-fourth carried
                    regular columns on farm life. The nature of the materials evolved with the years; in the early phase
                    of the journals they were apt to publish mostly the writings and  essays of "gentleman farmers, ministers, physicians, and other professional men, and the
                    general tone… was somehow detached and stilted." As the farm journals, however,
                    became more democratic, shedding their dilettante claptrap, they extended their range of interests
                    to actual farming practices and problems touching the farmer on the lowest levels. The columns were
                    never entirely free of such things as fads, frauds, and humbugs or of some lost cause that they were
                    advocating at the time. They periodically campaigned for some social or moral reform that may today
                    seem ludicrous. It must not be overlooked, however, as is noted in this book, that several of these
                    rather fantastic ideas came into reality because of the advocacy of these early journals. The death
                    rate of these publications was high; their span of life frequently running no longer than a few
                    months with but two or three managing to survive until the present time.
            The task of assessing the precise influence of these journals on actual farming practice was the
                    author's principal problem. It is in this phase of social history that the real test of
                    value presents itself. With the techniques now available to the author of this work, or to any
                    social historian as far as that is concerned, it is not possible to come to any very precise
                    conclusions. About all the author was able to say when evaluating the contributions of a particular
                    paper or book was that the "proportion of farmers who were influenced by it can not have
                    been large. Yet, to dismiss its importance it is to despise the day of small things."
            It seems to the reviewer that upon this problem of evaluation the future of social history must rest.
                    At the present time any one working in this field is handicapped by the inadequacies of the
                    available methodology. Those who glean the facts from the historical sources have done well, but
                    what to do with them and how to evaluate precisely the causal effects, is the task of the social
                    historian if his studies are to be of any importance to those who depend upon historical data. For
                    example, when a farmer changed his methods of reaping, adopted a new plow, or introduced a new
                    variety of seed, was this innovation due to "book learning" on his part or was it
                    the result of some form of social interaction? The anthropologist was up against a similar problem
                    some years ago; he roamed over rather large areas collecting data, describing and cataloguing facts
                    pertaining to early man and drawing his conclusions and generalizations on the basis of this type of
                         study. But it was not until he changed his approach in the
                    form of a more detailed study of a limited area that he was able to gain the recognition that the
                    science of the study of man has now attained. The reviewer is only posing this problem that if
                    social history, such as is found in this monograph, is to be of real importance in the understanding
                    of human behavior, past or present, those who write it must develop a more precise method.
            Dr. Bardolph writes with a zeal for the subject and many of his phrases and quotations show a
                    liveliness that make for interesting reading. The monograph is free of errors, is well edited and
                    shows an immense amount of accuracy in dates and references; it literally bristles with footnotes
                    and there is appended an excellent bibliography of prominent American horticultural writers in the
                    period to 1870.
            Earl W. Hayter Northern 
                            Illinois
                         State Teachers College
            
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Kaskaskia
                         under the French Regime. By Natalia M. Belting. Volume XXIX, No. 3, 
                  
                            Illinois
                         Studies in the Social Sciences. (
                  Urbana, Illinois
               , University
                    of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1948, pp. 140. Illustrations, appendix, and index. $2.50 clothbound,
                    $1.50 paperbound.)
            The social history of the French villages in the 
                        Illinois
                     country during the eighteenth century, with particular attention to 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , is told in this number of the 
                  
                            Illinois
                         Studies in the Social Sciences. The other villages are Fort de Chartres, St.
                    Philippe, 
                        Prairie
                     du Rocher, Cahokia, and Ste. Genevieve.
            
               
                        Kaskaskia
                     was founded when the 
                        Kaskaskia
                     Indians left the vicinity of La Salle's Fort 
                        St. Louis
                     on the Illinois River, moved to the west of the
                        Mississippi River opposite Cahokia, and then in 1703 settled at the mouth
                    of the river since called 
                        Kaskaskia
                    . With them and the Jesuit missionaries were a number of French traders who had married
                    into the tribe and who were the founders of the village. The French were chiefly interested in the
                    fur trade, but the fertility of the soil soon led them to agricultural pursuits. At first the
                    Jesuits tried to maintain order alone and then with the aid of troops. Government was extended in
                    1718 when 
                        Illinois
                     became a province or military district of the colony of 
                        Louisiana
                    . The chief migration of the French dwindled after the twenties and thereafter  the growth of the population came largely by natural increase.
            The houses, the clothing of the people, the church, their religious services, and the general
                    festivities of the communities are described. The information is drawn largely from the 
                        Kaskaskia
                     Manuscripts in 'the office of the circuit clerk at 
                  Chester, Illinois
               . Some of this material is printed in a long appendix.
            The work could have been improved if a summary and conclusion had been included. Miss Belting
                    undoubtedly knows this subject more intimately than anyone else and is, therefore, better able to
                    point out its significance. The monograph is, nevertheless, a useful and valuable study for those
                    who wish a more intimate knowledge of the villages of the French period.
            John D. Barnhart Indiana University
            
         
         
            
               Bibliography of 
                            Ohio
                         Archeology. By Richard C. Morgan and James Rodabaugh. (
                  Columbus, Ohio, Ohio
                State Archaeological and Historical
                    Society, 1947, pp. v, 189. Index. $2.50.)
            This volume was published as a memorial to Ephraim George Squier and Edwin 
                        Hamilton
                     Davis whose "great book, Ancient Monuments of the
                            Mississippi Valley
               ," had been accepted for publication by
                    the Smithsonian Institution one hundred years previously. These men "made the first
                    systematic study of archaeology in the 
                        United States
                     and produced the first major volume in this field." Their work, then, was
                    monumental. By the same token the subject volume is also monumental for it surpasses any similar
                    work which has come to the attention of the reviewer.
            The volume is well-organized. A preface concisely states the intent of the contents, credits those
                    who labored upon it and clarifies the arrangement of the included items.
            There follows a chapter "Historical Notes on 
                        Ohio
                     Archaeology." Within the span of eleven pages are tantalizing bits of history
                    relative to archaeological progress in the state, the foundation and growth of the 
                        Ohio
                     State Archaeological and Historical Society, and of the personalities responsible for
                    these accomplishments. Although it would, perhaps, have been out of place in this volume, this
                    chapter could have been expanded considerably to the advantage of all who are interested  in the history of American Archaeology. The span of time involved in
                    this chapter extends from 1772 when David Zeisberger "made the first record of
                    archaeological sites" in what is now the State of 
                        Ohio
                     to the contemporaries of the senior compiler. Many observers and observations were
                    involved in these one hundred seventy-five years, but in spite of the lapse of nearly two centuries
                    it will probably come as a surprise that there are 1,351 entries in the Bibliography. The entries cover all published items dealing with 
                        Ohio
                     archaeology "except references in newspapers, county and regional histories,
                    and atlases. As a result," in the words of the compilers, "it includes many
                    references of little or no scientific value to the archaeologist." This qualifying
                    statement is no doubt true but the shortcomings inherent within such a complete listing have been
                    largely obviated by Morgan's able comments and evaluations of a major portion of the
                    entries. Had newspaper, atlas, and county history references been listed, the volume would have
                    reached staggering proportions. Their omission was probably wise, but it has been this
                    reviewer's experience that county histories and atlases do often contain worthwhile
                    information, especially in the form of leads to archaeological sites and data derived from local
                    residents at an early date.
            An index adds to the usefulness of the Bibliography. Items are listed by counties,
                    site name, subject, and cultural designation. Every student of American archaeology will find this
                    volume indispensable. The authors and the 
                        Ohio
                     State Archaeological and Historical Society have performed a signal service in
                    publishing it.
            Glenn A. Black Indiana Historical Society
            
         
         
         
            Genealogy: Rogers-Ward-Shipman and Allied Families
            Contributed by Harold I. Meyer, Mrs. Sylvan L. Mouser, and Mrs. Voris B. Norton∗
            
            This genealogy is concerned chiefly with a few of the Indiana, 
                  Kentucky, Ohio
               , and 
                        Missouri
                     pioneer descendants of the Rogers, Ward, and Shipman families who were colonial
                    settlers in 
                        Connecticut
                     and 
                        New Jersey
                     as early as the 1630's and were of English descent.
            
               I 1 John Rogers, (Sr.), according to the early records of Nathan G. Pond, was a brother of
                        James Rogers (1615-1688) who came on the "Increase" in 1635 and was a resident
                        of 
                            Milford
                         and New 
                            London
                        , Conn. John Rogers was a first planter and founder of 
                            Milford
                         11-20-1639, and his name appears on the Memorial Bridge among the founders of the
                        town where he owned lot 47. He was a signer of the Fundamental Agreement 6-24-1667 and a member
                        of the General Assembly in 1669 (see D. A. C. #5984 Supplemental Book 1, p. 210, Mrs. Voris R.
                        Norton, née Nell Downing, New 
                            London
                        , Mo.). In the records at 
                            New Haven
                        , Conn., one finds the appraisal and inventory of his estate, dated 5-9-1684. He
                        married Ruth —? with whom he was listed as a member of the Church of Christ at 
                            Milford
                        . Their children were: a, Ruth, b, Eleazer, c, John, d, Hannah, e, Jabez, f,
                        Abigail.
               II 1 Ruth Rogers, dau. of I, 1; bap. 2-5-1642; m. 1st 11-9-1661, Thomas Goodwin of 
                            Milford
                        , Conn.; children: a, Ruth; m. 2nd Obadiah Wheeler, bap. 3-10-1643/4, d. 1668, r.
                        Stratford, Conn.; m. 3rd Ephraim Stiles 7-28-1669, s. of Francis Stiles (Styles). (Ephraim m.
                        2nd Bathsheba Tomlinson.)
               2 Eleazer Rogers, s. of I, 1; bap. May, 1642; m. 3-27-1663, Mrs. Elizabeth Knowles Ford, dau.
                        of Alexander Knowles, widow of Thomas Ford; children: a, Hannah, b, Sarah, c, Samuel, d, Joseph.
               3 John Rogers, s. of I, 1; bap. Feb., 1645; named executor in father's will.
               4 Hannah Rogers, dau. of I, 1; bap. Mar., 1647.
               5 Jabez Rogers, s. of I, 1; bap. June, 1649, 
                            Milford
                        , Conn.; r. to 
                            Newark
                        , N.J., where he obtained patent for 250 acres of land 5-1-1697; Keeper of Hay and
                        Woods 1672; Constable 1681; Surveyor of Highways 1685; Pounder and Pound Keeper 1684, 1686,
                        1687, 1694; on Grand Jury 1700; d. Essex Co., N.J., will 
                     
                        ∗ Harold I. Meyer is a doctor in 
                           Chicago, Illinois
                        ; Mrs. Sylvan L. Mouser (née Evelyn Mae
                                Shipman) is a resident of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana; and Mrs. Voris R. Norton (née Marjorie Nell Downing)
                                is a resident of New 
                           London, Missouri
                        .
                  
                         dated 1-12-1702/3; m. 1674 Sara Ward(e), b. 1652 Conn.,
                        dau. of Lt. John Ward(e).∗∗ Their children: a, John,
                        b, Sarah, c, Ruth, d, Joseph, e, James, f, Jabez.
               6 Abigail Rogers, dau. of I, 1; b. 6-20-1654, bap. July, 1654; d. 10-7-1723, Woodbury, Conn.;
                        m. Benjamin Stiles, b.c. 1661, d. 4-13-1711, s. of Francis Stiles (see 11, 1); children: a,
                        Sarah, b, Francis, c, Ruth, d, Thomas, e, Abigail.
               III 1 Ruth Goodwin, dau. of II, 1; b. 9-2-1662; d. 5-4-1732; m. Daniel Beardsley, b. 1644/5,
                        d. 10-7-1730, s. of William Beardsley of Stratford, Conn.; (Ruth is given in will of John
                        Rogers, see I, 1).
               2 Hannah Rogers, dau of II, 2; b. 1-10-1663/4; m. Joseph Camp.
               3 Sarah Rogers, dau. of II, 2; b. 10-5-1665; m. Abraham Nichols.
               4 Samuel Rogers, s. of II, 2; b. 3-14-1667/8.
               5 Joseph Rogers, s. of II, 2; b. 9-12-1671.
               6 John Rogers, s. of II, 5; b. c. 1675/6 N.J.; r. 
                            Newark
                        ; will dated 12-15-1713, probated 
                            Newark
                         3-11-1715/6; m. c. 1695/6 Elizabeth —?; children: a, Nathaniel, b,
                        Elizabeth, c, Sarah, d, Phoebe.
               7 Sarah Rogers, dau. of II, 5; mentioned in will of John Rogers (see I, 1).
               8 Ruth Rogers, dau. of II, 5; mentioned in will of John Rogers (see I, 1).
               9 Joseph Rogers, s. of II, 5; d. 2-7-1767, age 88; m. Mary —?, d. 1-18-1769, age
                        87; children: a, David, b, Joseph.
               10 James Rogers, s. of II, 5; mentioaed in father's will.
               11 Jabez Rogers, s. of II, 5; mentioned in father's will.
               12 Sarah Stiles, dau. of II, 6; bap. Apr., 1681; m. Thomas Wheeler.
               13 Francis Stiles, s. of II, 6; bap. May, 1682; m. Mary Johnson.
               14 Ruth Stiles, dau. of II, 6; bap. May, 1683; m. John Wheeler.
               15 Thomas Stiles, s. of II, 6; bap. Nov. 1685; probably d. young.
               16 Abigail Stiles, dau. of II, 6; bap. Apr., 1689; m. Samuel Munn.
               IV 1 Nathaniel Rogers, s. of III, 6; under age father's will; d. Newton, Morris Co.,
                        N.J., will dated 5-14-1761, probated 5-27-1761; m. c. 1733 Jemima—?, d. 9-2-1784;
                        children: a, Phoebe, b, Jabesh (Jabez), c, John, d, Sarah, e, Elizabeth, f, Agnes, g, Nathaniel,
                        h, Benjamin, i, Simeon, j, Henry, k, Amos, 1, David.
               2 Elizabeth Rogers, dau. of III, 6; under age father's will.
               3 Sarah Rogers, dau. of III, 6; under age father's will.
               4 Phoebe Rogers, dau. of III, 6; under age father's will.
               5 David Rogers, s, of III, 9; m.—?; children: a, Joseph.
               6 Joseph Rogers, s. of III, 9; m.—?; children: a, David, b, William, c, John, d,
                        Elizabeth, e, Lydia, f, Sally (may have been others).
               V 1 Phoebe (Phebe) Rogers, dau. of IV, 1; b.c. 1735/7 N.J.; r. Morris Co., N.J.; d. intestate
                        11-16-1792, Morris Co.; m. c. 1753 Jabesh (Jabez) Shipman (Sr,), d. Morris Co., N.J., will dated
                        6-7-1781, probated 12-9-1781, a Revolutionary soldier (see D.A.R. 
                     
                        ∗∗ For the ancestry of Lt. John Ward(e) see
                                the appendix under the heading of Excursus Ward (e) Family.
                  
                         #337,595 Mrs. Ethel Test Kennedy, also Mrs. Norton, Mrs.
                        Mouser, Dr. Meyer, and others); children: a, Abigail, b, Jemima, c, Jabesh (Jabez), d, David, e,
                        Phebe, f, Sarah, g, John, h, Priscilla, i, Mary, j, Esther, k, Leonard.
               2 Jabesh (Jabez) Rogers, s. of IV, 1; probably the Jabez b. 11-3-1739; d. 1774; m. Catherine
                        Littell; children: a, Nathaniel, b, Sarah, c, Lydia, d, Elizabeth, e, Jemima, f, Joanna, g,
                        Stephen, h, Susan. (Catherine m. 2nd Moses Crane and had 3 children.) (For the rest of this line
                        see John Littell, Family Records, or Genealogies of the First Settlers of the
                            Passaic Valley, 1851, pp. 239-241.
               3 John Rogers, s. of IV, 1; a Revolutionary soldier; over age father's will.
               4 Sarah Rogers, dau. of IV, 1; over age father's will.
               5 Elizabeth Rogers, dau. of IV, 1; over age father's will.
               6 Agnes (Aguns) Rogers, dau. of IV, 1; probably the one who m Joseph Bullman 6-1-1785.
               7 Nathaniel Rogers, s. of IV, 1; under age father's will.
               8 Benjamin Rogers, s. of IV, 1; under age father's will.
               9 Simeon Rogers, s. of IV, 1; b.c. 1750 N.J.; r. Bernards Twp., 
                            Somerset
                         Co., N.J., then Pa., and Clark Co., 
                            Ohio
                        ; d. 
                            New Paris
                        , Preble Co., 
                            Ohio
                        ; a Revolutionary soldier (see D.A.R. #195,883 Mrs. Viola Curtis Meier, and S.A.R.
                        #43,373 Harold I. Meyer); m. 1-26-1773, Abigail Howard, New 
                            Providence
                         (Turkey) Presbyterian Church, New 
                            Providence
                        , N.J.; d. 
                     New Paris, Ohio
                  ; children: a, John, b, Jabez, c,
                        Johanna (and presumably also d, Henry, e, Benjamin H., f, Simeon, Jr.).
               10 Henry Rogers, Sr., s. of IV, 1; b. 12-21-1752, Monmouth Co., N.J.; Revolutionary soldier
                        (see D.A.R. #52,054, 39,483; S.A.R. #2,478, 64,538 Howard Griffith Burdge); r. 1806 from 
                            Fayette
                         Co., Pa., to 
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
                  ; d. 1839 buried Roll Cem., 
                            Cincinnati
                        ; m.c. 1784 Phoebe Burnett (probably either Monmouth Co., N.J., or 
                            Fayette
                         CO., Pa.), b.c. 1756-66, d. 1812 
                            Cincinnati
                        ; children: a, Elizabeth, b. Sarah, c, Hannah, d, Phoebe, e, Jemima, f, Amos, g,
                        Samuel, h, Nancy, i, Henry, Jr. j, Maria. (For additional information on this line and allied
                        lines see genealogies of the Burdge, Goltry-Goltra, Sprong families, written by Howard Griffith
                        Burdge and copies placed in the D.A.R. Library, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C., also in the Newberry Library, 
                            Chicago
                        , and libraries in 
                     Los Angeles,
                                New York
                  , and Des Moines, 
                            Iowa
                        .)
               11 Amos Rogers, s. of IV, 1; under age father's will.
               12 David Rogers, s. of IV, 1; under age of father's will.
               13 Joseph Rogers, s. of IV, 5; m. Abigail Johnson.
               14 Elizabeth Rogers, dau. of IV, 6; may have m. — Ten-brook.
               15 Lydia Rogers, dau. of IV, 6; m. 1st————--
                        Crane; m. 2nd Capt. James Nutman (she was his 2nd wife, his 1st wife was Elizabeth Ogden).
               16 Sally Rogers, dau. of IV, 6; m.— Nichols.
               VI 1 Abigail Shipman, dau. of V, 1; b. 3-2-1754, Morris Co., N.J.; r. N.J., to Mason Co., Ky.,
                        1788; d. 4-9-1836, Mason Co., Ky.;  m. Morris Co., N.J.,
                        9-17-1772, John Shotwell (Shadwell), a Revolutionary soldier (see supplemental papers D.A.R.
                        #96,813 Mrs. Norton), b. 3-6-1753, d. 12-9-1826, Ky., s. of John(4),
                            Abraham(3), John(2), Abraham (1)
                        Shotwell (see genealogy in Annals of Our Colonial Ancestors, by Ambrose M.
                        Shotwell, 1895-8, pp. 96, 143); children: a, Mary, b, Charlotte, c, Lydia, d, John, e, William,
                        f, Nathan, g, Anna, h, Phebe, i, Jab, j, Abigail, k, Priscilla, 1, Rachel, m, 
                            Jasper
                        .
               2 Jemima Shipman, dau. of V, 1; b.c. 1766 Morris Co., N.J.; m. 11-7-1773, Morris Co., N.J.;
                        Nathaniel Roff; r. Union Village, Essex Co., N.J., to Mason Co., Ky., 1788/9; children: a, Jane,
                        b, Betsey, c, Deborah, d, Phebe, e, Jonathan, f, David, g, Henry, h, James. (See Littell, Family Records, or Genealogies of the First Settlers of the Passaic Valley,
                        345.)
               3 Jabesh (Jabez) Shipman (Jr.), s. of V, 1; b.c. 1761 Morris Co., N.J.; r. probably
                        Morristown, N.J.; d. intestate before 4-19-1798, Morristown; m. Morris Co., N.J., widow Mrs.
                        Phoebe Howard Bryant, d. 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                   (having m. 3rd—Burnett);
                        children: a, James, b, Tryphena J., c, Clark, d, Rachel, e, Sarah, f, Abigail (?), g, John.
               4 David Shipman, s. of V, 1; b.c. 1763 Morris Co., N.J.; r. Morris Co., N.J.; d. 10-12-1787,
                        Morris Co., N.J.; m.c. 1785/6 Elizabeth (Betsey) Tingley, b.c. 1770 
                            Somerset
                         Co., N.J., dau of Ebenezer Tingley and Annice Jennings of 
                            Somerset
                         Co. (see ancestry in The Tingley Family, by R. M. Tingley);
                        children: a, Samuel. (She m. 2nd 7-4-1790, Benjamin Bonnell, III.)
               5 Phebe Shipman, dau. of V, 1; bap. 6-9-1765, N.J.; d. 3-16-1784; unmarried.
               6 Sarah Shipman, dau. of V, 1; bap. 8-2-1767, N.J.; m. N.J., 11-14-1785, 
                            Jasper
                         Dove (Dore), d. 10-18-1789; children: a, 
                            Jasper
                         (Jr.).
               7 John Shipman, s. of V, 1; bap. 9-29-1771, N.J.; r. Morris, Essex, and 
                            Somerset
                         Counties, N.J.; d. 5-12-1813, 
                            Somerset
                         Co., buried Mt. Bethel Cem.; m. 6-15-1792, N.J., Elizabeth
                        (Betsey) Stevens, dau. of Jonathan Stevens, Sr. (see VII, 17); children: a, David, b. Abigail,
                        c, Anne. (See Littell, Family Records, or Genealogiea of ths First Settlers of the
                            Passaic Valley, 376.)
               8 Priscilla Shipman, dau, of V, 1; mentioned in father's will.
               9 Mary Shipman, dau. of V, 1; mentioned in father's will.
               10 Esther Shipman, dau. of V, 1; b. 1-6-1774, bap. 4-19; r. Clermont Co., 
                            Ohio
                        ; d. 
                            Ohio
                        ; m. 2-16-1793, 
                            Madison
                         Co., N.J., John Frazee, Jr., b. 2-16-1770, d. 7-4-1832, Clark Twp., Clermont Co., 
                            Ohio
                        , s. of John and Sarah Frazee (see Ancestral Lines of the Doniphan-Frazee-
                                Hamilton
                             Families, by Frances Frazee 
                            Hamilton
                        , 1928); children: a, John, b, Jabez, c, Eri, d, Charlotte, e, 
                            Greene
                        , f, James, g, Ann, h, Abigail, i, Henry.
               11 Leonard Shipman s. of V, 1; b.c. 1781/2, mentioned in father's will as unborn
                        child; d. 1-4-1793, N.J.; unmarried.
               12 Nathaniel Rogers, s. of V, 2; b. 2-4-1761, Parcipany, N.J.; d. 1846; m. Rachel McDaniels;
                        children: a, Moses, b, John.
               13 Sarah Rogers, dau. of V, 2; b. 6-30-1764; m. Robert Templeton of Parcipany, N.J.; children:
                        a, Elizabeth, b, Mary, c, Catherine.
               
               14 Lydia Rogers, dau. of V, 2; b. 4-5-1766; m. Ebenezer Burnet; children: a, Sarah, b,
                        Stephen, c, James, d, Ralph, e, Hiram, f, Ebenezer, g, Catherine, h, Joanna Estile, i, John
                        Seward, j, Phebe, k, Charles.
               15 Elizabeth Rogers, dau. of V, 2; b. 3-30-1768; d. age 13.
               16 Jemima Rogers, dau. of V, 2; b. 2-5-1770; d. age 7.
               17 Joanna Rogers, dau. of V, 2; b. 12-22-1771; m. Noah Estile; r. near 
                            Dover
                        , Morris Co., N.J.; children: a, Jabez Lewis, b, John Rogers, c, Almire, d, Stephen
                        Rogers, e, William.
               18 Stephen Rogers, s. of V, 2; b. 8-28-1773; m. Phebe Baldwin.
               19 Susan Rogers, dau. of V, 2; b. 4-28-1775; m. Jacob Hinds; r. Bristol, Vt.; had children.
               20 John Rogers, s. of V, 9; b. 12-9-1785, 
                            Somerset
                         Co., N.J.; r. N.J., Pa., 
                            Ohio
                        , to Vernon, Ind., 1818, New Pans, 
                            Ohio
                        , 1822, Adams Twp., Allen Co., Ind., 1825; d. 9-16-1877, Kendallville, Ind., buried
                        I.O.O.F. Cem., 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; soldier War of 1812 (see U.S. Daughters of 1812 #13,765, Mrs. Viola Curtis
                        Meier, and Gen. Soc. War of 1812 #1,784, Harold I. Meyer); m. 1st Jane Harper, d. Xenia, 
                            Ohio
                        ; children: a, Elizabeth, b, Benjamin Howard, c, Nancy, d, Dorcas, e, Henry; m. c.
                        1815/6, 2nd Tryphena J. Shipman (see VII, 22), 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ;
                        children: f, Lamont 
                            Montgomery
                        , g, Louisa Antionette, h, Allan-son A., i, Orrin DeWitt, j, John Shipman, k, James
                        H., 1, Helen M.
               21 Jabez Rogers, s. of V, 9; r. Allen Co., Ind., with brother 1826; d. 1845, will dated
                        4-10-1845, probated 5-6-1845; m. Margaret 
                            Brown
                         2-6-1834, Allen Co., Ind., d. 9-27-1855; children: a, Harriett, b, Irene, c,
                        Adrian.
               22 Johanna Rogers, dau. of V, 9; m. Nathaniel Roff, 
                            Somerset
                         Co., N.J.
               23 Elizabeth Rogers, dau. of V, 10; m. Thomas McFeeley of Va. (see D.A.R. #52,054).
               24 Sarah Rogers, dau. of V, 10; b. 10-17-1789, 
                            Fayette
                         Co., Pa.; d. 5-13-1863(6), 
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
                  ; m. 
                            Cincinnati
                         8-14-1813, Michael Burdge of Vt., a soldier of War of 1812, b. 5-10-1787,
                        Hillsdale, Col. Co., N.Y., d. 5-30-1861, 
                            Cincinnati
                        , buried Wesleyan Cem., s. of Jonathan Burdge and Rachel 
                            Van
                         Dusen (see D.A.R. #39,483 and S.A.R. #64,538); children: a, Thadeus, b, Hannah, c,
                        Jonathan E., d, Henry Rogers, e, Stephen J., f, Phoebe, g, Elizabeth. (See Burdge
                            Genealogy for complete information.)
               25 Hannah Rogers, dau. of V, 10; b. 5-13-1791; m. Zebulon Sprong. (See Sprong
                            Genealogy.)
               26 Phoebe Rogers, dau. of V, 10; m. Jonathan Holden.
               27 Jemima Rogers, dau. of V, 10; m. Richard McFeely.
               28 Amos Rogers, s. of V, 10; d. infancy.
               29 Samuel Rogers, s. of V, 10; d. infancy.
               30 Nancy Rogers, dau. of V, 10; m. Cyrus 
                            Brown
                        .
               31 Henry Rogers, Jr., s. of V, 10; b. 1806 
                            Fayette
                         Co., Pa. (see S.A.R. #2,478); m. Rachel Maria Hill, dau. of Obadiah Hill of N. J.
               
               32 Maria Rogers, dau. of V, 10; m. Levi Pinney of 
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
                  ;
                        children: a, William (may have been others).
               VII 1 Mary Shotwell, dau. of VI, 1; twin of Charlotte, b. 8-4-1774, Morris Co., N.J.; d. Mason
                        Co., Ky., 11-13-1823; m. Mason Co., Ky., 1-20-1799, John Wise, s. of Adam 
                            Wise
                        ; children: a, Eliza, b, Ann, c, Lydia, d, Thomas Jefferson, e, Abigail S., f,
                        Priscilla, g, William D., h, John S.
               2 Charlotte Shotwell, dau. of VI, 1; twin of Mary, b. 8-4-1774, Morris Co., N.J.; m. 1st
                        9-30-1790, Abram Wood; m. 2nd 2-3-1805, William Dye, Mason Co., Ky.
               3 Lydia Shotwell, dau. of VI, 1; b. 8-2-1775; d. 7-20-1857; m. 2-12-1793, Sanford 
                            Mitchell
                        ; had children (see D.A.R. #154,516).
               4 John Shotwell, s. of VI, 1; b. 1-29-1777; d. 7-3-1824, Mason Co., Ky.; m. 1st 3-10-1803,
                        Rachel Dye, d. 1808; had 2 daus.; m. 2nd 11-21-1809, Sally Burroughs, b. 8-15-1780, Md.; r. 
                            Pike
                         Co., Mo.; had children. (See Shotwell, Annals of Our Colonial
                            Anaestors, 144.)
               5 William Shotwell, s. of VI, 1; b. 12-12-1779, Morris Co., N. J.; d. Mason Co., Ky.,
                        5-12-1834; m. 1-31-1805, Fannie Triplett; had children. (See Shotwell, Annals of
                            Our Colonial Ancestors, 177, and D.A.R. #14,027.)
               6 Nathan Shotwell, s. of VI, 1; b. 4-2-1782; m. 1st — Grover (Mason Co., Ky.,
                        records give 1st marriage to Margaret Dye 1-13-1806); m. 2nd Maria Bland ?-13-1816, Mason Co.,
                        Ky.; r. 
                            St. Louis
                        , Mo., 1827; had children. (See Shotwell, Annals of Our Colonial
                            Ancestors, 127-128.)
               7 Anna Shotwell, dau. of VI, 1; b. 1-12-1785; d. 9-18-1861; m. 1st 4-15-1802, Thomas Webb;
                        children (1); m. 2nd 3-7-1828, David Roff (see VII, 19); had children.
               8 Phebe Shotwell, dau. of VI, 1; b. 12-17-1789, Mason Co., Ky.; m. 10-26-1811, Levi 
                            Van
                         Camp; r. 
                            Missouri
                        ; had children.
               9 Jabez Shotwell, s. of VI, 1; b. 11-23-1791; d. 11-?-1871, 
                            Lexington
                        , Mo.; m. Elizabeth Warder 5-25-1814, Barren Co., Ky.; r. 
                            Richmond
                        , Ray Co., Mo.; had children (see D.A.R. #112,957; 156,646; 149,069; 96,781).
               10 Abigail Shotwell, dau. of VI, 1; b. 4-20-1795; m. 3-9-1816, William Stewart; had children.
               11 Priscilla Shotwell, dau. of VI, 1; b. 1-19-1798; d. 3-20-1866; m. 10-15-1823, Warner
                        Wilson; had children.
               12 Rachel Shotwell, dau. of VI, 1; b. 4-9-1799.
               13 
                            Jasper
                         Shotwell, s. of VI, 1; b. 7-18-1800.
               14 Jane Roff, dau. of VI, 2; m. James (or William) Craig, s. of James, Jr.(3), James(2), Andrew(1) Craig; children: a, James, b, —
                        Shipman, c, Eliza, d, Phebe, e, Nathaniel.
               15 Betsey Roff, dau. of VI, 2; m. 7-16-1773, Daniel Moore, 8. of Isaac.
               16 Deborah Roff, dau. of VI, 2; m. Daniel Smalley, s. of David.
               17 Phebe Roff, dau. of VI, 2; m. William Stevens, s. of Jonathan; r. 
                            Ohio
                         (William's sister Betsey m. John Shipman, see VI, 7).
               18 Jonathan Roff, s. of VI, 2; m. Sally Lyon, dau. of Ebenezer; children: a, Betsey, b, Peter,
                        c, John, d, David, e, James, f, William, g, Mary, h, Phebe.
               
               19 David Roff, s. of VI, 2; m. Mrs. Anna Shotwell Webb (2nd marriage, see VII, 7).
               20 Henry Roff, s. of VI, 2; m. Rachel Lambert, dau. of James of 
                            Westfield
                        ; r. 
                            New York
                        ; had children.
               21 James Shipman, s. of VI, 3; b. 4-14-1788, N.J.; r. 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ,
                        before 1808, then Jackson Twp., 
                            Hancock
                         Co., Ind., 1840's; d. 9-11-1856, buried Glencove Cem., 
                            Knightstown
                        , Ind.; m. Phebe —?, b. 8-14-1790, d. 4-20-1865, buried same Cem.;
                        children: a, John, b, Hampton, c, David, d, Howard, e, Angeline, f, 
                            Israel
                        , g, Maria J. (?). (May have been others.)
               22 Tryphena J. Shipman, dau. of VI, 3; b. 2-11-1790, Morris Co., N.J.; r.
                                
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  , by 1816; d. 4-10-1848, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind., buried I.O.O.F. Cem. (there is a marriage record of one Tryphena J. Shipman
                        to John Moser (?), at 
                     Urbana, Champaign
                   Co., 
                            Ohio
                        , 8-23-1811, but no more is known about same); m. c. 1816 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  , John Rogers (see VI, 20 for continuation of this line).
               23 Clark Shipman, s. of VI, 3; b. before 1794, N.J.; d. 9-10-1830, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; r. 
                            Springfield
                         1815 from Elizabeth, N.J. via Ky.; m. Ruth Ambler, b. 1799, d. 3-29-1883, 
                            Springfield
                        , buried Ferncliff Cem.; children: a, Joseph W., b, Anna A., c, John Ambler.
               24 Rachel Shipman, dau. of VI, 3; m. 2-11-1816, Maysville, Ky., David Cornogg, Jr.; r.
                                
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; children: a, Adeline.
               25 Sarah Shipman, dau. of VI, 3; b. 1798 N.J.; d. 10-25-1870, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; buried Ferncliff Cem.; m. 7-3-1817, Maysville, Ky., James Watson;
                        children: a, Elizabeth, b, Thurza D.
               26 Abigail Shipman, (probably) dau. of VI, 3; m. Daniel Clark (she was his 2nd wife, see Clark Genealogy).
               
               27 Samuel Shipman, s. of VI, 4; b. c. 1787 Morris Co., N.J.; r. Clark Co., Ind., before 1818,
                        then to New 
                            Albany
                        , Ind., 1818; d. 2-12-1862, New 
                            Albany
                        , Ind., buried Fairview Cem., served in War of 1812 from N.J.; m. Clark Co., Ind.,
                        9-11-1818, Lavina Ann (called Luan) Hatfield, b.c. 1798 Va., d. c. 1863 New 
                            Albany
                        , Ind., buried Fairview Cem., sister of John B. Hatfield, came with parents from
                        Va., 1816 to Clark Co., Ind.; children: a, John L., b, Samuel (Jr.), c, Mary A., d, William
                        Kelber, e, said to be dau. who d. no heirs. (For a continuation of all of the known descendants
                        from this Samuel Shipman to the present time, see Mrs. Sylvan L. Mouser, "Indiana
                        Branch of Shipman Genealogy," in the Indiana Magazine of History,
                        XLIII, 198-202.)
               28 
                            Jasper
                         Dove (Jr.), s. of VI, 6; b. c. 1786; d.c. 1818; unmarried.
               29 David Shipman, s. of VI, 7; m. Mrs. Nancy—? Putney, widow of Caleb Putney; no
                        children.
               30 Abigail Shipman, dau. of VI, 7; m. 6-14-1817, Isaac Doty, a. of Henry; children: a, Henry,
                        b, Phebe Anne, c, John Shipman, d, Marquis, e, Elizabeth.
               31 Anne Shipman, dau. of VI, 7; m. Nathan Smalley, s. of Isaac; children: a, Nelson, b,
                        Cornelius, c, Agnes.
               32 Eri Frazee, s. of VI, 10; b.c. 1801; d. autumn 1833 
                            Brown
                         Co., 
                            Ohio
                        ; m. 1-23-1823, 
                            Hamilton
                         Co., 
                            Ohio
                        , Elizabeth Kincaid (see  further the
                        guardianship papers of children in 
                            Brown
                         Co., 
                            Ohio
                        , among whom was one Amanda).
               33 Abigail Frazee, dau. of VI, 10; m. Benjamin 
                            Israel
                        .
               34 Elizabeth Templeton, dau. of VI, 13; m. Ashbel Cory.
               35 Mary Templeton, dau. of VI, 13; m. Freeman Ford.
               36 Catherine Templeton, dau. of VI, 13; m. Alexander Lawrence.
               37 Sarah Burnet, dau. of VI, 14; m. 1st John Tichenor, s. of Jabez (see VII, 47); had
                        children; m. 2nd William Churchill; r. 
                            Ohio
                        .
               38 Stephen Burnet, s. of VI, 14; d. age 2.
               39 James Burnet, s. of VI, 14; r. 
                            Georgia
                        .
               40 Ralph Burnet, s. of VI, 14; m. Phebe Lindsley of Morristown, N. J.; r. Sidney, 
                            Ohio
                        .
               41 Hiram Burnet, s. of VI, 14; m. Adeline Burrows.
               42 Ebenezer Burnet, s. of VI, 14; m. Mariah Debow of Morris Co., N.J.; r. Sidney, 
                            Ohio
                        .
               43 Catherine Burnet, dau. of VI, 14; m. Joseph 
                            Warren
                        .
               44 Joanna Estile Burnet, dau. of VI, 14; m. David Norris.
               45 John Seward Burnet, s. of VI, 14; m. Mary Harrison.
               46 Phebe Burnet, dau. of VI, 14; m. Robert Fields.
               47 Charles Burnet, s. of VI, 14; m. Frances Tichenor, dau. of Jabez (see VII, 37).
               48 John Rogers Estile, s. of VI, 17; m. Rebecca Bruen.
               49 Elizabeth Rogers, dau. of VI, 20; d. 1832 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; m. David William Beeson, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind., 1830 (he m. 2nd Louisa Antoinette Rogers, see VII, 54); children: a, John R.
               50 Benjamin Howard Rogers, s. of VI, 20; b. 10-3-1809, 
                            Ohio
                        ; d. 5-1-1845, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind., buried I.O.O.F. Cem.; r. Aboite Twp., Allen Co., Ind., 1834; m. Elizabeth
                        —?; b. 5-17-1804, Elizabethtown, Ky., d. 2-24-1898, Ft. 
                            Wayne
                        , Ind., buried L. M. Rogers Lot, I.O.O.F. Cem., 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind. (she m. 2nd —McClintock); no known children.
               61 Nancy Rogers, dau. of VI, 20; b. 10-10-1813, 
                            Ohio
                        ; d. 12-11-1867, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind., buried I.O.O.F. Cem.; m. 1st 7-31-1831, Absolom Holcomb, Allen Co., Ind.;
                        children: a, Lewis, b, 
                            Warren
                        ; m. 2nd Samuel Lovall 5-12-1842, Allen Co., Ind.; children: c, Jennie Bell, d,
                        Samuel Brenton, e, Anna Eliza (called Lyda).
               52 Dorcas Rogers, dau. of VI, 20; b. 8-28-1814, Xenia, 
                            Ohio
                        ; d. 3-30-1908, Ft. 
                            Wayne
                        , Ind., buried Lindenwood Cem.; m. 2-10-1833, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind., John Brown, b. 9-11-1810, d. 4-16-1896; children: a, Sarah Jane, b, Allen,
                        c, Antoinette, d, William Henry, e, George H., f, Benjamin R., f, John Commodore, h, Clara B.,
                        i, Lenory, j, Alexander, k, Laura, 1, Susan Whitacre.
               53 Lamont 
                            Montgomery
                         Rogers, 8. of VI, 20; b. 1-17-1817, 
                     Springfield, Ohio
                  ; d.
                        12-11-1902, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind., buried I.O.O.F. Cem.; m. 1-24-1844, Allen Co., Ind., Harriett Corlew;
                        children: a, Louisa Adelaide, b, Willie Spafford, c, Emma Louisa, d, Frank, e, Jessie Powers.
               54 Louisa Antoinette Rogers, dau. of VI, 20; b. 4-13-1821, Vernon, Jennings Co., Ind.; d.
                        6-21-1863, Stanley, Ind.; m. 1-7-1837, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind., David William Beeson, b. 1809 
                            Greene
                         Co., 
                            Ohio
                        , d. 10-8-1866, Petersburg, Ind., both buried Barnett Cem., Stanley,  Ind. (she was his 2nd wife, for 1st see VII, 49); children: a,
                        Emily, b, Helen Diana, c, Louisa Marian, d, Mary Jane, e, Henry Clay, f, Susan Clara, g, Charles
                        Harvey, h, Eliza Ellen (Nell), i, Ernest 
                            Montgomery
                        , j, James L., k, Ida Louise.
               55 Allanson A. Rogers, s. of VI, 20; d. c. 1890; m. 1st 5-20-1846, Allen Co., Ind., Rachel
                        Parent; children: a, Henry, b, Orrin; m. 2nd 12-18-1857, Allen Co., Ind., Lennia Ritter;
                        children: c, Myron, d, Flora E., e, Emma.
               56 Orrin DeWitt Rogers, s. of VI, 20; b. 4-22-1823, Preble Co., 
                            Ohio
                        ; d. 1-27-1902, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; m. 4-22-1851, 
                            New Haven
                        , Clarinda Rowe, b. 3-16-1833, d. 2-16-1909; children: a, Eva Annette, b, Ella L.,
                        c, Clara Dell, d, Fitz Glen.
               57 John Shipman Rogers, s. of VI, 20; b. 10-11-1825, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; d. 3-31-1845, 
                            New Haven
                        ; unmarried.
               58 James H. Rogers, s. of VI, 20; b. 1-26-1831; d. 8-9-1834; unmarried.
               59 Helen M. Rogers, dau. of VI, 20; b. 11-16-1827, 
                            New Haven
                        , Ind.; 8-6-1909, Ft. 
                            Wayne
                        , Ind., buried Lindenwood Cem.; m. 8-17-1847, 
                            New Haven
                        , Amasa Powers; children: a, Florence J., b. Lamont 
                            Montgomery
                        , c, Phineas Homer, d, Helen, e, Amasa Volney, f, Jessie B., g, Eva America, h,
                        Lucien Volney.
               60 Harriett Rogers, dau. of VI, 21; b. 1839 Allen Co., Ind.; d. 1882 Allen Co., Ind.; m.
                        9-3-1857, Allen Co., James Dawkins, b. 1831, d. 1914, both buried I.O.O.F. Cem., 
                            New Haven
                        ; had children.
               61 Thadeus Burdge, s. of VI, 24; b. 6-1-1814; d. 6-12-1849; m. Elizabeth—?
               62 Hannah Burdge, dau. of VI, 24; b. 11-30-1815; m. 1st E.S. Yost; had children (see D.A.R.
                        #31,427, Minnie D. Yost Morgan, Mrs. W. A.); m. 2nd—Tomlinson.
               63 Jonathan E. Burdge, s. of VI, 24; b. 6-7-1818; d. 12-1-1891; m. 3-9-1843, Olive Jane
                        Sprong; children: a, William Melville (and there may have been others).
               64 Henry Rogers Burdge, s. of VI, 24; b. 9-20-1820; d. 5-?-1883; m. Phoebe Griffith.
               65 Stephen J. Burdge, s. of VI, 24; b. 10-20-1822; d. 8-15-1888; m. Josephine—?
               66 Phoebe Burdge, dau. of VI, 24; b. 11-20-1824; d. 2-10-1826.
               67 Elizabeth Burdge, dau. of VI, 24; b. 12-28-1826; d. 1907; m. Capt.— Odlum.
               68 William Pinney, s. of VI, 32; m. —?; children: a, Charles, b, Harry, c, Stanley,
                        d (dau.).
            
            Appendix A
            Excursus Ward(e) Family (ancestry of Lt. John Ward)
            
               A a Richard Ward(e); r. Stretton, County Rutland, 
                            England
                        ; d. 
                            England
                        , will dated 4-22-1635, proved at 
                            London
                         10-2-1635, buried 7-19-1635; m. 1st —?; children: a, Thomas; m. 2nd
                        Joyce —? who came as widow with part of her children to Conn.; d. 1640 Wethersfield,
                        Conn., will dated 11-15-1640, inventory  2-24-1640/1;
                        children: b, Mary, c, Edward, d, Anthony, e, William, f, Robert, g, John, h, Richard, i, second
                        Richard.
               B a Thomas Ward(e), s. of A, a; mentioned in father's will as eldest son with
                        children.
               b Mary Ward, dau. of A, a; b.c. 1607 
                            England
                        ; d. Farmington, Conn., will dated 11-27-1677, inventory 2-14/26-1678; m. 
                            England
                         1st John Fletcher; children: a, Mary, b, Rebekah, c, Hannah, d, Sarah, e, Abigail,
                        f, other names unknown; m. 2nd John Clarke in America, d. 1674.
               c Edward Ward(e), s. of A, 2; b. 
                            England
                        ; d. there, buried Stretton, 2-3-1662/3; m. Isabel —?; mentioned in
                        mother's will as her eldest son.
               d Anthony Ward(e), s. of A, a; under age 21 father's will; mentioned 1640
                        mother's will.
               e William Ward(e), s. of A, a; under age 21 father's will; mentioned 1640
                        mother's will.
               f Robert Ward(e), s. of A, a; under age father's will; mentioned in mother's
                        will as being in 
                            England
                        .
               g John Ward(e), s, of A, a; b. 1625 
                            England
                        , r. to Conn. with mother, then to Branford, Conn., where Signer of Fundamental
                        Agreement 10-30-1666; Representative 1666; moved to 
                            Newark
                        , N.J., where Member of Assembly; Deputy; Sergeant; Lieutenant; Magistrate (see
                        D.A.C. #5,984 Mrs. Norton and D.C.W. #2,030 Mrs. Ethel Test Kennedy); d. 1694, will dated
                        10-31-1694, proved 11-20-1694, 
                            Newark
                        , N.J.; m. 1st Sarah —?; children: a, Jonathan, b, John, c, Sarah, d,
                        Mary, e, Phoebe, f, Nathaniel, g, Hannah, h, Elizabeth, i, Dorcas, j, Deborah, k, Abigail; m.
                        2nd c. 1685 Mrs. Hannah Crane 
                            Huntington
                        , dau. of 
                            Jasper
                         Crane, widow of Thomas 
                            Huntington
                        ; no children.
               h Richard Ward(e), s. of A, a; buried 11-30-1631, 
                            England
                        .
               i second Richard Ward(e), s. of A, a; buried 1633 
                            England
                        .
               C a Mary Fletcher, dau. of B, b; bap. Stretton, County Rutland, 
                            England
                        , 6-10-1633; m. Thomas Stevens, d. 1685 (see D.A.C. #6,040 Lineage Book 7, p. 18);
                        children: a, James, b, Rebeckah, c, perhaps others.
               b Rebekah Fletcher, dau. of B, b; m.— Warner; children: a, Mary, b, may have been
                        others.
               c Hannah Fletcher, dau. of B, b; bap. 1643; m. 1665 John Chittendon (Chittingdon), b. 1643, d.
                        1716; children: a, Elizabeth, b, may have been others.
               d Sarah Fletcher, dau. of B, b; d. 5-15-1713; m. 6-26-1661, John Stanley (Standly), b. 1624 
                            England
                        , d. 12-19-1706, Farmington, Conn. (she was his 2nd wife); children: a, Abigail, b,
                        Elizabeth, c, may have been others. (John Stanley m. 1st 12-5-1645, Sarah Scott, d. 1661.)
               e Abigail Fletcher, dau. of B, b; named executrix, unmarried time of mother's will.
               f —? Fletcher, evidently a dau. of B, b; probably m. Elnathan Bochford, mentioned
                        in will. Elizabeth Bochford of said will may have been a dau.
               
               g. Jonathan Ward, s. of B, g; probably d. young.
               h John Ward, 8. of B, g; b. 4-10-1649/50; d. 5-5-1695, will dated 6-2-1695, 
                            Newark
                        , N.J., proved 9-20-1695; m. 1st Mary Lyon, dau. of Henry; children: a, John
                        (third); m. 2nd c. 1680 Abigail Kitchell, b. 1661, d. 1714, will dated 5-27-1714, dau. of Samuel
                        Kitchell and Elizabeth Wakeman; children: b, Jonathan, c, David.
               i Sarah Ward, dau. of B, g; m. Jabez Rogers (see 11, 6 for continuation of Ward line through
                        Sarah).
               j Mary Ward, dau. of B, g; b. 6-11-1654; d. 4-16-1738; m. Samuel Harrison, 8. of Richard (2), Richard (1).
               k Phoebe Ward, dau. of B, g; b. 6-11-1655; m. John Cooper.
               l Nathaniel Ward, s. of B, g; b. 11-3-1656; m. Christiana Swaine.
               m Hannah Ward, dau. of B, g; b 11-20-1658; d. 6-19-1693; m. 11-2-1677, Jonathan Baldwin, s. of
                        Joseph.
               n Elizabeth Ward, dau. of B, g; b. 1-24-1660.
               o Dorcas Ward, dau. of B, g; b. 3-10-1662; d. 1-25-1738; m. Joseph Harrison, bro. of Samuel
                        (see C, j).
               p Deborah Ward, dau. of B, g; m. Eliphalet Johnson.
               q Abigail Ward, dau. of B, g; b. 4-20-1665; probably d. young.
               D a James Stevens, s. of C, a; b. 1651; m. Mary —? (see Lineage Book 7, p. 18,
                        D.A.C. #6,040).
               b Rebeckah Stevens, dau. of C, a; named in will of Mary Ward Fletcher Clarke.
               c Mary Warner, dau. of C, b; named in will of Mary Ward Fletcher Clarke.
               d John Ward, s. of C, h; d. 12-27-1714; m. Martha Johnson, dau. of Joseph Johnson and Rebecca
                        Pierson.
               e David Ward, s. of C, h; b. 1680 
                            Newark
                        , N.J.; d. 12-14-1768, Morris Co., N.J., will dated 9-9-1764; m. Mary 
                            Brown
                        , dau. of Daniel 
                            Brown
                         of 
                            Newark
                        ; one descendant was Marcus Lawrence 
                            Brown
                         Ward, a governor of 
                            New Jersey
                        .
            
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
