
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 97, Issue 4, pages 253-339. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:97+issue:4+year:2001&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Menace of the Feebleminded: George Bliss, Amos 
                        Butler
                    , and the Indiana Committee on Mental Defectives
            Robert L. Osgood*
            
            
                    
                        Feeble-mindedness produces more pauperism, degeneracy and crime than any other one force.
                            … Its cost is beyond our comprehension. It is the unappreciated burden of the
                            unfortunate. It is a burden we are compelled to bear; therefore let us bear it
                            intelligently, to the end that the chain of evil may be lessened, the weak cared for, and
                            the future brighter with hope because of our efforts.
                        Amos W. Butler, Secretary, Indiana Board of State Charities, 19071
                  
                    
                    
                        Up to the present time we have been merely dallying with the problem of the defective. When
                            are we as a nation going to wake up and face this mighty task with the consideration and
                            care it deserves? When are we going to lay out a concerted and comprehensive plan for
                            dealing with the problem of the feeble-minded? I cannot answer the question, but for the
                            sake of the coming generations, I hope it will be soon. George S. Bliss, Superintendent,
                            Indiana School for Feebleminded Youth, 19162
                  
                    
                
            In 1924 Congress passed the Immigration and Naturalization Act, severely restricting immigration to
                    the 
                        United States
                    . A primary factor in its passage was the powerful, generalized belief that many
                    immigrants were mentally inferior and thus posed a threat to the biological, social, intellectual,
                    and moral integrity of the nation. H. H. Goddard's administration of intelligence tests to
                    newly arrived immigrants at Ellis Island during the 1910s and his shocking conclusions regarding the
                    large number of immigrants who were mentally
                    "defective"—"morons," or worse—startled
                    the American political leadership. Moreover, his "scientific" conclusions
                    reinforced the widespread belief that intellectual inferiority was a fixed, inherited trait that was
                    largely responsible for the crime, vice, and poverty that plagued the 
                        United States
                     during the early twentieth century. Passed at the end of the Progressive era, this
                    legislation was a deliberate attempt to engineer a healthier, safer, more moral, and more
                    intelligent society.3
            
            
               
                  *Robert L. Osgood is associate professor of education in the
                        School of Education at Indiana University-Purdue University, 
                            Indianapolis
                        .
               
                  1 Amos W. Butler, The Burden of Feeblemindedness (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1907), 12.
               
                  2 George S. Bliss, "The Danger of Classifymg as Merely Backward
                        Children Who Are Feeble-Minded," Journal of Psycho-Asthenics, XXI
                        (September/December 1916), 45.
               
                  3 Two sources that discuss Henry Goddard's work in detail are
                        Leila Zenderland, Measuring Minds: Henry Herbert Goddard and the Origins of
                            American Intelligence Testing (
                            Cambridge
                        , Eng., 1998), and Stephen J. Gould, The Mismeasure of Man (
                            New York
                        , 1981), 146-224.
            
            
            Beliefs about the nature of mental retardation had been evolving in the 
                        United States
                     for some time. In the mid-1800s Samuel Gridley Howe and Eduoard Seguin led efforts to
                    treat "idiots" with compassion and optimism, devising educational programs that
                    they believed would improve the condition of the afflicted. However, by the late nineteenth and
                    early twentieth centuries persons considered "feebleminded or, more broadly,
                    "mentally defective" began to be thought of as a potent and ubiquitous threat to
                    American society and culture.4 In Indiana, for example, an Asylum for
                    Feebleminded Children was established in 1879 on the assumption that many of these children could
                    benefit from instruction and thus were worthy recipients of the state's attention.
                    Following national patterns, however, Indiana's medical, educational, and political leaders
                    soon concluded that such children were a significant burden. During the 1890s and early 1900s
                    prominent individuals in the state, beginning with the asylum's nationally renowned
                    superintendent, Alexander Johnson, began claiming that the state's mentally retarded
                    citizens unduly drained resources and threatened the social and cultural fabric. In the 1910s and
                    1920s the professional writings and activities of George Bliss, Amos 
                        Butler
                    , and the Indiana Committee on Mental Defectives (ICMD) epitomized the state's
                    widespread fear of these citizens. This article examines the many ways in which feeblemindedness
                    came to be a primary target for Indiana politicians, educators, and reformers dedicated to the
                    comprehensive reform of society.
            The national transition from moderately positive to starkly negative constructions of mental
                    disability can be clearly seen in Indiana. During its first several years the Asylum for
                    Feebleminded Children exhibited the cautious optimism of Howe and Seguin regarding the educability
                    and benevolent treatment of its residents. By the time the school moved to its permanent facility in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     in 1890, however, it was admitting more and more individuals who were considered
                    "custodial" only and whose isolation from society was deemed necessary. In 1893
                    the school's board of trustees named Johnson superintendent of the institution, known by
                    then as the Indiana School for Feebleminded Youth (ISFIVIY). At the time Johnson was already
                    secretary of the Indiana Board of State Charities (IBSC), a nonpartisan commission appointed to
                    oversee all social welfare efforts 
                  
                     4 Terminology related to mental disability during the early 1900s,
                            while offensive to many today, consisted of almost universally recognized clinical labels.
                            "Mental defect" covered three primary areas: insanity, epilepsy, and
                            feeblemindedness. Feeblemindedness was defined as "a state of permanently arrested
                            mental development," one that exists "from birth or from early
                            age," whereby "the person amicted is incapable of performing his duties as
                            a member of society in the position of life to which he is born." Indiana,
                            Committee on Mental Defectives, Report, 1916, 3-4. Goddard's
                            classification system for feeblemindedness, used by most physicians, educators, and scholars
                            in the field, consisted of moron, imbecile, and idiot. These labels corresponded roughly to
                            the categories of mild, moderate, and severe mental retardation (respectively) used
                        today.
               
                    
                    
                  ALEXANDER JOHNSON, SECRETARY OF THE INDIANA BOARD OF STATE CHARITIES, 1889-1893;
                            SUPERINTENDENT OF THE (INDIANA) ASIUJM FOR FEEBLEMINDED YOUTH, 1893-1903
                  Alexander Johnson, Adventures in Social Welfare (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Ind., 1923)
               
                    
                  GEORGE BLISS, SUPERINTENDENT OF THE INDIANA SCHOOL FOR FEEBLEMINDED YOUTH, 1912-1920
                  Mamiya Medical Heritage Center
               
                    
                  AMOS BUTLER, SECRETARY OF THE INDIANA BOARD OF STATE CHARITIES, 1897-1923
                  
                     
                                Butler
                             mss. Photographs, Lilly Library, Indiana University
               
                     in the state. Over the next ten years while Johnson gained a
                    national reputation as a leader in the field, his views on feeblemindedness grew increasingly
                        pessimistic.5
            
            Johnson represents the shifting attitudes toward the feebleminded during the last decade of the
                    nineteenth century. By the mid-1890s he was claiming that only a small percentage of the
                    "inmates" at his institution might be capable of returning to life outside its
                    walls. He felt strongly that the feebleminded, especially women of childbearing age, should be
                    segregated from society, and he doubted the value of academic instruction for more than a few of his
                    patients. Johnson retained a certain sympathy for his patients, but he eventually came to support
                    sterilization, a position he had previously denounced. Because many of his writings appeared in
                    national professional journals and he held prominent positions in national organizations, his views
                    became widely known. Other prominent Indiana citizens and agencies shared Johnson's fear of
                    the supposed threat posed by the state's feebleminded and echoed the responses he proposed.
                    Nearly all argued in favor of increased state involvement in identifjmg, segregating, and training
                    the feebleminded, not only for economic efficiency but also for the "protection"
                    of all parties and eventual eradication of the condition.6
            
            Partly in response to such concerns, in 1907 Indiana passed the nation's first sterilization
                    law during the administration of Governor J. Frank Hanly. The issue of involuntary
                    "asexualization" of "defectives" was a central feature of
                    eugenics (the science of "race 
                  
                     5 See Robert L. Osgood, "Confronting This
                            ‘Parasitic, Predatory Class’ of ‘Unfortunates’:
                            Public Education, Social Reform, and the Feebleminded in Progressive-Era Indiana"
                            (unpublished manuscript, 2000) for more on Alexander Johnson and the growth of the Indiana
                            School for Feeble-Minded Youth. See also Thomas Roeger, "History of the Educational
                            Practices at the Indiana School for Feeble-minded Youth" (paper in
                            author's possession), 1-2. For a discussion of the Board of State Charities of
                            Indiana see 
                                Milton
                             Gaither, "The Rise and Fall of a Pedagogical Empire: The Board of
                            State Charities and the Indiana Philosophy of Giving," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XCVI (December 2000), 336-46; Otto F. Walls, "A
                            History of Social Welfare in Indiana," ibid., XLV (December
                            1949), 391-96; Amos W. Butler, A Century of Progress: A Study of the
                                Development of Public Charities and Correction 1790-1915 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916), 13-20; and 
                                Butler
                            , "A Century of Progress in Public Charities and Corrections in
                            Indiana," unpublished typescript, Box 4, Amos W. Butler Papers (Lilly Library,
                            Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ), hereafter cited as 
                                Butler
                             Papers.
                  
                     6 Some of Johnson's definitive writings published in Indiana
                            include Alexander Johnson, Adventures in Social Welfare: Being Reminiscences of
                                Things, Thoughts, and Folks During Forty Years of Social Work (
                                Fort Wayne
                            , Ind., 1923); Johnson, "The School for Feeble Minded," in
                            Indiana Superintendent of Public Instruction, Report, 1895/1896, 561-64;
                            Johnson, "The State and Her Weakest Children," Indiana
                                Bulletin of Charities and Corrections (June 18981, 103-108; Johnson, "What
                            Shall the State Do for the Feeble-Minded?," ibid. (September
                            1899), 6-14; Johnson, "Progress in the Care of Mental Defectives," ibid. (June 1913), 262-68; and Johnson, "The Defective
                            Child," ibid. (June 1915), 291-94. For examples of the views of
                            others see Ernest Bicknell, "Custodial Care of the Adult Feeble-Minded,"
                            Indiana State Conference of Charities and Correction, Proceedings
                                …1896, 60-68; J. W. Sale, "The Feeble-Minded," Indiana Bulletin of Charities and Corrections (June 1912), 192-96; Indiana
                            Board of State Charities, Report, 1916, 116-17; ibid.,
                            1917, 124.
               
                     improvement" through carefully planned and controlled
                    procreation); unauthorized sterilization of "defectives" had taken place in
                    institutions in several states during the 1890s. Among those performing such operations was Harry C.
                    Sharp, resident physician and surgeon at the Indiana State Reformatory, who became one of the
                    strongest proponents and most frequent practitioners of "eugenic sterilization."
                    Sharp especially advocated vasectomies as the preferred sterilization technique for males; his 1902
                    paper describing and defending the operation became "a manifesto for the sterilization
                    movement." According to his own calculations, Sharp performed 465 sterilizations on
                    "guests of the state"—i.e., inmates at the Indiana State
                    Reformatory—without any complications and with, he alleged, significant benefits.7
            
            Amidst a nationwide groundswell of support for involuntary sterilization among physicians at
                    institutions for prisoners and "defectives," state legislatures began discussing
                    the topic. Although 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     considered such bills in 1897 and 1905, respectively, Sharp's lobbying efforts
                    helped Indiana become the first state to pass such a law. 
                        Butler
                    , secretary of the IBSC from 1898 through 1922 and perhaps the most important figure in
                    Indiana in making public policy toward feeblemindedness, added his support to the effort. Claiming
                    that "heredity plays a most important part in the transmission of crime, idiocy, and
                    imbecility," the legislation permitted the operation "for the prevention of
                    procreation as shall be decided safest and most effective" on "confirmed idiots,
                    imbeciles, and rapists" who had been deemed "unimprovable." The law
                    passed by a comfortable majority in both legislative houses. Between 1907 and 1909,120 authorized,
                    state-funded sterilizations took place at the State Reformatory in 
                  Jeffersonville, Indiana
               .8
            
            Yet implementing the law proved highly problematic. Although sympathetic to the purpose of the
                    operation, Albert Carroll, who succeeded Johnson as superintendent of the ISFMY, noted that
                    "sterilization … is not going to be very popular. … Unless the people
                    are ready to receive a law of that kind, nothing will come of it." Bliss, who followed
                    Carroll as superintendent, expressed great skepticism regarding the practice's
                    effectiveness. Hanly's successor as governor, Thomas R. Marshall, questioned the
                    constitutionality of the law and in 1909 ordered a cessation of funding for all sterilizations
                    (although Sharp reportedly continued to perform the operations on his own). The next governor,
                    Samuel Ralston, held the law in abeyance during his 
                  
                     7 James W. Trent, Jr., Inventing the Feeble Mind: A
                                History of Mental Retardation in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Berkeley
                            , Calif., 1994), 193-97; Philip R. Reilly, The Surgical Solution: A
                                History of Involuntary Sterilization in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Baltimore
                            , Md., 1991), 31-35; J. H. Landman, Human Sterilization: The
                                History of the Sexual Sterilization Movement (
                                New York
                            , 1932), 52, 231.
                  
                     8 Reilly, Surgical Solution, 32-33, 45-49; Landman,
                                Human Sterilization, 52; Trent, Inventing the Feeble
                            Mind, 192-95.
               
                     term (1913–1917). In May 1921 in Williams v. Smith the Indiana Supreme Court declared the law
                    unconstitutional. Nevertheless, Indiana's consideration of such dramatic responses to the
                    alleged genetic deficiency of the mentally retarded was groundbreaking, and in 1917 the state
                    legislature passed a new sterilization law designed to show greater respect for patients'
                        rights.9
            
            Public schools also responded to the "menace" in many of the state's
                    larger cities. In 1907 
                        Indianapolis
                     public schools initiated segregated instruction for children identified as
                    feebleminded. The following year a committee of the State Association of Town and City
                    Superintendents called for the creation of special schools and classes for children who were
                    performing several years behind grade level. Such classes emerged slowly through the 1910s, but
                    their numbers accelerated during the early 1920s. By 1925 nearly five thousand Indiana public school
                    students were in "ungraded," "opportunity," or
                    "special" classes geared primarily toward feebleminded children—a
                    little under 1 percent of the total population of elementary school students. Many in the state,
                    citing data that suggested 2 to 4 percent of all children were clearly mentally defective and that
                    up to 20 percent were "slow" or "backward," still considered
                    these classes inadequate. 
                  Fort Wayne, Evansville, Terre Haute,
                            Richmond, Gary,
                            Bloomington
               , and other sizable towns and
                    cities in the state provided such settings in their school systems, paralleling the significant
                    growth of such classes nationally.10
            
            Indiana's institutional, legislative, and educational initiatives related to low-functioning
                    children drew energy and guidance from many people. Among the most prominent were Bliss and 
                        Butler
                    , who, like Johnson, received national attention for their efforts to 
                  
                     9Sale, "The Feeble-Minded," 196; George Bliss,
                            "Feeble-Mindedness," Indiana Bulletin of Charities and
                                Corrections (March 1915), 64-65; Reilly, Surgical Solution,
                            48-49; Landman, Human Sterilization, 54-55. See also L. Potter Harshman,
                            "Medical and Legal Aspects of Sterilization in Indiana," Journal of Psycho-Asthenics, XXXIX (1933/1934), 185,187; and "Message of
                            Governor James P. Goodrich, Delivered at the Opening of the 72nd Biennial Session of the
                            Indiana General Assembly at the Capitol in 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Thursday, January 6, 1921," p. 17, Box 11, 
                                Butler
                             Papers.
                  
                     10"Elementary Schools of 
                                Indianapolis
                            ," in Indiana, Superintendent of Public Instruction, Report, 1914, 55-63; Indiana, Committee on Delinquent and Dependent Children, Report, 1908, 23-25; Indiana, State Department of Public Instruction, Report, 1925, 8. A number of articles reporting on the development of
                            special classes for feebleminded or mentally defective children in public schools in Indiana
                            appeared from the 1910s into the early 1930s. See Katrina Myers, "Feeble-Mindedness
                            in the Public Schools," Indiana Bulletin of Charities and
                            Corrections (March 1915), 80-84; Herman H. Young, "Experiments in Public
                            Schools," ibid. (March 1924), 26-29; William F. Vogel,
                            "Mental Hygiene in the Public Schools," ibid. (February
                            1928), 34-36; Ralph N. Tirey, "Mental Hygiene and the Public Schools," ibid. (February 1929), 66-72; George C. Carroll, "Defective and
                            Retarded Children as a School Problem: Special Classes in 
                                Terre Haute
                            ," ibid. (March 1930), 62-66; John O. Chewning,
                            "Special Work in 
                                Evansville
                            ," ibid., 66-67; Donald DuShane,
                            "Exceptional Children in the Public Schools," ibid.,
                            67-70; and Charles C. Wilson, "Special Provisions in Public Schools for Mentally
                            Retarded Children," ibid. (March/April 1931), 213-17;
                            "Special Activities in the 
                                Bedford
                             Schools," Indiana Teacher, LXIX (April 1925),
                        14.
               
                     manage mental retardation. Both wrote extensively about
                    feeble-mindedness, Bliss as superintendent of the ISFMY and 
                        Butler
                     as secretary of the IBSC. They proved instrumental in helping to fashion statewide
                    policy toward persons with mental disabilities by working both independently and together as
                    influential members of the ICMD, which, during its years of operation from 1916 to 1924, generated
                    high-profile research that clearly shaped state policy toward mental disabilities.
            In 1912, after Superintendent Carroll died, the board of trustees of ISFMY conducted an extensive
                    national search for his successor and appointed Bliss, the director of 
                        Maine
                    's institution for the mentally retarded. Bliss served as superintendent from
                    1912 to 1920, a pivotal period in state and national developments in public policy and practice
                    regarding the mentally disabled. His leadership at the Indiana institution placed the school and the
                    state squarely in the middle of these developments, contributing significantly to the more
                    restrictive assumptions and approaches to the care, treatment, and education of the feebleminded.11
            
            During his tenure at the ISFMY, Bliss concerned himself little with what he termed
                    "literary" (academic) instruction for the mentally disabled. Of far greater
                    concern to him were the stark and ubiquitous dangers he saw in the feebleminded
                    population—especially the "high grade type"—and the need to
                    implement effective responses swiftly. He proposed giving them basic industrial and vocational
                    training; segregating them; working to eliminate alcoholism, vice, and sexually transmitted diseases
                    among them; and sterilizing them (although he viewed the last as hopelessly impractical). These
                    proposals reflected his strong belief that "there is no cure for mental defects. It is a
                    condition, not a disease." "These people," he argued, "are at
                    large, reproducing defectives in ever-increasing numbers, like the waves from a pebble thrown into a
                    lake. If we are to protect the coming generations … from this growing burden, we must
                    wake up to the condition and do something about it."12
            
            Bliss's fears were rooted in his assumptions about the feebleminded and their nature.
                    Convinced that feeblemindedness was hereditary and incurable, he focused on the importance of
                    recognizing the moron, or "high grade defective," who had piqued the concern of
                    Goddard, Johnson, and so many others. In an article entitled "The Danger of Classifying as
                    Merely Backward Children who are Feebleminded," Bliss observed that morons often appeared
                    "normal" and yet posed a chilling threat to social stability: 
                        His moral sense apparently does not exist. … His absolute untruthfulness rivals
                            that of the opium eater; his respect for property exists only as long as he is under
                            observation. … 
                        
                           11Indiana, School for Feebleminded Youth, Report,
                                        1912, 7.
                        
                           12Bliss, "Feeble-Mindedness," 64. Emphasis
                                    in the original.
                     
                             They are always ready with an excuse for their wrong
                            doing, often with a most plausible one. … The almost unbelievable debauchery and
                            vice that some of these people are capable of, renders them most dangerous members of any
                            community in which they are permitted to grow up, live, and reproduce their kind.
                     Bliss extended these warnings to cover not only the "high grade" mental
                    defective but also all levels of severity: 
                        I should be faithless to my duty did I not point out to you the great menace to this state,
                            of leaving the 4,500 feeble-minded, now at large in our communities, to their own devices,
                            to marry and reproduce their kind, to fill the police courts of our larger towns and cities,
                            to augment the supply of prostitutes and paupers, as well as the other forms of vice to
                            which a degenerate will surely turn.13
                  
                    
                
            Bliss offered a number of ideas on how to confront this menace. Although a supporter in theory of
                    sterilization, he recognized that "sterilization, because of the conscientious opposition
                    by some people, and because our civilization is not yet advanced enough to have the mass of the
                    people educated to so radical a measure, is for the present, at least, not a practical plan of
                    dealing with this problem." Instead, Bliss pursued policies and practices of complete
                    segregation and isolation of persons within schools and society. For Bliss, segregation was the only
                    "practicable working measure" for curtailing the spread of feeblemindedness
                    throughout Indiana and the nation. His preferred method of segregation was the "farm colony
                    plan," under which inmates lived in small cottages and worked farmland for training and
                    profit under state protection.14
            
            Bliss also looked to public schools to help solve the social problem. Acknowledging that "a
                    decision that brands a child as feebleminded is an exceedingly serious and grave thing to make with
                    respect to that child's future," Bliss challenged physicians and public school
                    teachers throughout the state to look carefully for other possible causes, especially
                    "physical defects," that might cause a child's poor academic performance
                    in school. Doing so, he argued, would allow schools and doctors to concentrate their resources more
                    efficiently and would insure that the regular classrooms would be free of the malevolent influence
                    of mentally defective children, who "are not only a burden to a conscientious teacher, but
                    as they develop into puberty may be a positive menace to the discipline and morals of any
                    schoolroom." He called for public schools to help identify feebleminded children and either
                    segregate them in special classes in the schools or remove them to a "suitable
                        institution."15
            
            
               
                  13Bliss, "The Danger of Classifying," 43-44; Bliss,
                        "The Future Care of the Feeble-Minded," Ind iana Bulletin of
                            Charities and Corrections (June 1916), 62.
               
                  14Bliss, "Future Care," 63; Bliss, "The Cottage
                        Plan in the Care of the Feeble-Minded," Journal of Psychod sthenics,
                        XVIII (March 1914), 139-41; Bliss, "Feeble-Mindedness," 65.
               
                  15Bliss, "The Importance of Distinguishing Between
                        Feeble-Mindedness and Mere Backwardness in Children," Indiana Bulletin of
                            Charities and Corrections (June 1918), 251-52; Bliss, "President's
                        Address: The Need of a Better Social Conscience," ibid. (March 1920),
                        26; Bliss, "The Danger of Classifying," 44-45.
            
            
            
               "INMATES" OF INDIANA SCHOOL FOR FEEBLEMINDED YOUTH, DATE UNKNOWN
               
                  
                            Fort Wayne
                         State Developmental Center Archives
            
            Above all, Bliss advocated statewide and national development of a "better social
                    conscience" to directly confront the "menace of the feebleminded" and
                    support the necessary efforts to control and eventually eradicate this problem. In his presidential
                    address before the Indiana Conference on Charities and Correction in 1920, Bliss advocated a strong
                    social conscience "that will not allow us to pass by as none of our concern, the glaring
                    evils and wrongs that still exist." For Bliss, these evils included the jailing of
                    "demented" men and women, the "crime" of sanctioned marriage for
                    feebleminded persons, the spread of venereal diseases, and the presence of unidentified and
                    unsegregated feebleminded children in public schools. He challenged all interested parties to pursue
                    vigorously the elimination of the "poverty, crime, vice and prostitution" that
                    were a direct consequence of lax controls over the mentally defective population. "The
                    record that we leave upon the pages of history for the next few years," he declared,
                    "will depend upon what we do about these things. … Will you … develop
                    a social conscience that will not let you rest, till you have done your utmost, to abolish the evils
                    still blotting the fair pages of our daily community life?" Soon after this address,
                    however, Bliss grew increasingly frustrated by overcrowding at the ISFMY and by what he saw as the
                    lack of cooperation and support from the state and the school's board of trustees and
                        resigned.16
            
            
               
                  16Bliss, "President's Address," 26-27; Trent,
                            Inventing the Feeble Mind, 191. For more on Bliss's resignation
                        see Walter Fernald to Amos 
                            Butler
                        , November 17, 1919, George Bliss to 
                            Butler
                        , November 25, 1919, Fernald to 
                            Butler
                        , December 6, 1919, and Fernald to James P. Goodrich, December 6, 1919, Box 5, 
                            Butler
                         Papers.
            
            
            While Bliss brought a medical and administrative background to the study and treatment of mental
                    defects, 
                        Butler
                     brought the views of a trained scientist, an advocate of progressive social reform, and
                    a citizen concerned with a variety of issues in social welfare. A zoologist with a specialty in
                    ornithology, 
                        Butler
                     became secretary of the IBSC in 1898. Over the next thirty years he remained active in
                    state and national social welfare circles. He was intimately involved in developing public policy
                    toward mental defectives in Indiana as secretary not only of the IBSC but also of the ICMD.
                    Significantly, Bliss and 
                        Butler
                     shared a number of assumptions about and solutions for the problem of the
                        feebleminded.17
            
            
               
                        Butler
                     began publicly discussing the problem soon after becoming secretary of the IBSC. He
                    wrote in 1901 that the "defective" and "degenerate" deserved
                    better manual training. When addressing the American Association for the Advancement of Science that
                    year, he identified feeblemindedness as a "degenerating social force," citing a
                    wide range of family studies demonstrating how the condition appeared in certain families and was
                    directly associated with illegal and immoral behavior. His address provided a highly detailed
                    account of several family histories and traced the history of the care and treatment of the mentally
                    disabled in Europe and the 
                        United States
                    . 
                        Butler
                     noted that beliefs about the educability of feebleminded persons had grown
                    substantially more pessimistic by 1900, moving from optimism to his own bleak assessment: 
                        Never did we appreciate so strongly as we do to-day the untold misery and accumulating
                            expense caused by the lack of control of our feeble-minded population. Their fecundity and
                            animal instincts make them fit subjects for consideration, both on financial and moral
                            grounds, to say nothing of the dangers that beset those of strong minds who have weaker
                            bodies.
                        The problem presented to us is the manner in which these conditions shall be met. Its
                            solution lies in an intelligent and general knowledge of the subject by the public,
                            preventive measures by legal marriage restrictions and other means, the education of
                            feeble-minded children and the custodial care of feeble-minded women.18
                  
                    
                
            
               
                        Butler
                     never wavered in his belief that feeblemindedness was a serious blight on American
                    society, creating a burden that the public could not and should not ignore. Seeing feeblemindedness
                    as one 
                  
                     17
                     National Cyclopaedia of American Biography, see
                            under "Amos William Butler." Information on 
                                Butler
                            's life and activities related to feeblemindedness and mental defects
                            can be found in Indiana, Board of State Chanties, Testimonial to Amos W.
                                Butler: At a Dinner in the Riley Room of the Claypool Hotel (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1922). For other testimonials to 
                                Butler
                            's twenty-five years of service see 
                                Butler
                             Papers, especially Fernald to 
                                Butler
                            , June 27, 1923, Box 6.
                  
                     18Amos W. Butler, "Reforms," in Indiana Department
                            of Public Instruction, What Shall Be Indiana's Next Steps in
                                Educational Progress? A Symposium (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1901), 13-20; 
                                Butler
                            , "A Notable Factor of Social Degeneracy: Address Delivered by Amos W.
                            Butler, Vice-president and Chairman of Section H, Anthropology, of the American Association
                            for the Advancement of Science, 
                                Denver
                             Meeting, August, 1901," 1-10, Box 11, 
                                Butler
                             Papers.
               
                     component of social degeneracy, he thought that it invaded
                    families, communities, and social agencies and institutions such as the courts, prisons, almshouses,
                    hospitals, orphan homes, and schools. He recognized the distinctions then accepted among epilepsy,
                    insanity, and feeblemindedness, commenting that "feeble-mindedness, imbecility and idiocy
                    are simply varying degrees of arrested mental development. … Few realize the misery and
                    suffering, the vice and crime, or the great burden of taxation caused by our feeble-minded
                    population. … Everywhere, in town and city and country, the blight of feeblemindedness is
                    found." In a 1907 paper that anticipated some of Bliss's proposals, 
                        Butler
                     urged the expansion of "custodial" care for as many low-functioning
                    individuals as possible, the prevention of marriage and procreation of such persons, and the use of
                    special classes in the public schools as well as training programs for special-class teachers.
                    "While there are many anti-social forces," he stated, "I believe none
                    demands more earnest thought, more immediate action, than this." The Board of State
                    Charities consistently reiterated 
                        Butler
                    's views in its annual reports.19
            
            As a scientist, 
                        Butler
                     demanded that thorough research be conducted to understand the nature of
                    feeblemindedness and, especially, the role heredity played in spreading mental deficiency throughout
                    the population. In 1915, 
                        Butler
                     addressed the National Conference of Charities and Correction. Citing data about the
                    number of low-functioning persons and the extent to which their condition was passed from generation
                    to generation, he argued that 
                        Every accurate piece of work in this field is worth while. Valuable material is accumulating,
                            the result of studies by trained and experienced investigators. … [Research]
                            should extend to all parts of our land, and the net result should be a mass of facts that
                            will form the basis for future study and proper action. The whole public must realize its
                            burden and awaken to its responsibility. … We need more strength, more wisdom,
                            more help, more light.20
                  
                    
                
            
               
                        Butler
                     complemented his emphasis on research-driven policy by advocating, as did Bliss,
                    segregation of the feebleminded. His detailed analyses of family histories aimed to demonstrate the
                    need to isolate the mentally deficient from one another as well as from the general public. He
                    constantly stressed his conviction that mental disability was at the heart of the
                    "anti-social conditions" found in the state, making isolation paramount. Calling
                    particular attention to the dangers of having feebleminded women of childbearing age at large, 
                        Butler
                     regularly asserted that they "should be kept sep- 
                  
                     19
                     
                                Butler
                            , Burden of Feeble-Mindedness, 2, 12; Indiana, Board of State
                            Charities, Report, 1918, 104; ibid., 1920, 116; ibid., 1923, 9. For a discussion of controlling feeblemindedness as good
                            business see also Amos W. Butler, "The Feeble-Minded From a Business
                            Standpoint," typescript, Box 4, 
                                Butler
                             Papers.
                  
                     20
                     
                                Butler
                            , "The Feeble-Minded: The Need of Research," National
                            Conference of Charities and Correction, Proceedings, 1915, 6-7.
               
                     arate and apart from the world." By being placed in
                    appropriate custodial institutions, such individuals would be "forever …
                    prevented from reproducing their kind."21
            
            By the mid-1910s Indiana and the rest of the 
                        United States
                     had taken notice of mental disability in general and feeblemindedness in particular. In
                    the state, Bliss and 
                        Butler
                     had done much to generate awareness by emphasizing the dangers of feeblemindedness and
                    the consequent need for universal concern and prompt, effective action. Consequently, the IBSC
                    adopted a resolution in 1915 that labeled the mental defective "one of our greatest social
                    and financial burdens … [and] one of the most important if not the most important cause
                    of pauperism, degeneracy, and crime." It further stated that more information was needed to
                    understand the problem in the state and it urged the governor to form an eight-member committee,
                    consisting of state legislators and other interested persons, to investigate and report on the
                    problem. Governor Ralston, known as a "moderate progressive," acted on the
                    resolution, officially creating the ICMD, which consisted of 
                        Butler
                    , Bliss, five other physicians (one from Indiana University, the others superintendents
                    of state hospitals), two state legislators (one Democrat and one Republican), and a clergyman,
                    Francis H. Gavisk, who was also chairman of the IBSC's Committee on Hospitals for the
                    Insane. The new committee was officially appointed August 6, 1915, and met for the first time on
                    December 17 of that year.22
            
            The committee was charged with investigating the problem of the mental defective and recommending
                    solutions to the problem. "It is essential," stated the original resolution,
                    "that we know what the problem of mental defectives … is in Indiana, what is
                    being done for them here and elsewhere, and in the light of the best experience what program can be
                    suggested for this state." Reflecting national practice, the ICMD defined "mental
                    defective" to include anyone diagnosed as epileptic, insane, or feebleminded. It noted that
                    epileptics and the insane, while certainly of great concern, presented less of a numerical or actual
                    threat to the state's well-being than did the other. "The part played by
                    feeblemindedness in discounting social progress," wrote the committee, "is by far
                    the most potent influence for evil under which society is struggling today." Thus the ICMD
                    largely 
                  
                     21
                     
                                Butler
                            , Burden of Feeblemindedness, 8, 10. 
                                Butler
                             also strongly supported the "colony plan" favored by Bliss;
                            see, for example, 
                                Butler
                             to James P. Goodrich, December 10, 1919, Box 5, 
                                Butler
                             Papers, and 
                                Butler
                            , "Colonies for Public Wards," paper read at 
                                Kansas
                             State Conference of Charities, 
                                Emporia
                            , Kans., October 30, 1917, Box 11, ibid.
                  
                  
                     22Suellen M. Hoy, "Samuel M. Ralston, Progressive Governor,
                            1913–1917" (Ph.D. dissertation, Indiana University, 1975); Indiana,
                            Committee on Mental Defectives, Report, 1916, 1-2; Indiana Board of State
                            Charities, Report, 1915. For background on the political context of these
                            developments see Clifton J. Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The Emergence of
                                an Industrial Commonwealth 1880–1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 113-31.
               
                     focused its efforts on this one area although its reports also
                    discussed the other two categories and, occasionally, the entire problem of mental disability.23
            
            To support its work the committee secured the services of several organizations and national
                    agencies, including the 
                        United States
                     Public Health Service, the federal Children's Bureau, the National Committee
                    on Provision for the Feeble-minded, the National Committee for Mental Hygiene, and the Eugenics
                    Record Office. Other state agencies and individuals that lent support included the board of state
                    charities, the state board of health, various state and county medical societies, the department of
                    public instruction, the state bar association, and the superintendents of state institutions for
                    mental disability. In concert with these groups the ICMD supported an array of research activities.
                    In addition, it published extensive summary reports in 1916, 1919, and 1922 that described the
                    committee's activities, summarized research findings, and offered specific conclusions and
                        recommendations.24
            
            The committee's first formal report sought to determine the phases of the problem of mental
                    disability in Indiana, describe efforts toward solving the problem, and document the results of a
                    formal survey of mentally disabled persons in two counties. One of the components of the report was
                    a series of estimates of the number of affected persons in Indiana. According to these estimates,
                    9,484 "mental defectives," including at least 2,600 who were feebleminded, resided
                    in various state institutions. However, the report emphasized that only a small portion of the
                    state's total population of mental defectives had been removed to institutional care. It
                    estimated that the total number of epileptic, insane, and feebleminded persons in Indiana was about
                    32,000. Although the report stated bluntly that it was "impossible to attempt to estimate
                    the number of feeble-minded in the state," it did so anyway: "a fair estimate will
                    place it at about 20,000, including all grades. It is estimated that 6,000 of these should be under
                    state custodial care, and only 1,350 are now receiving it." The report went on to say that,
                    based on extrapolated figures, "at least 833 feebleminded children [are]
                    now in the public schools of Indiana. These children are defective enough to be a problem to the
                    schools, otherwise they would not have been reported."25
            
            The 1916 report included a number of assumptions about the nature of mental disability and the
                    character of those who suffered from it. The committee adopted the then current three-part
                    classification system for feeblemindedness: "high grade, or morons" (mental age of
                    eight to twelve years); "medium grade, or imbeciles" (mental age three to seven
                    years); and "the low grade, or idiot… practically 
                  
                     23Indiana, Committee on Mental Defectives, Report,
                            1916, 1; ibid., 1923, 8.
                  
                     24
                     Ibid., 1916, 2; ibid., 1919, 6;
                                ibid., 1923, 6-7.
                  
                     25
                     Ibid., 1916, 15-16.
               
                     incapable of any training whatever." The committee
                    assumed as "established facts" that "the feeble-minded female is twice as
                    prolific as the normal female [and] that prostitutes are largely recruited from the ranks of
                    feeble-minded girls and women, who soon become victims of syphilis and alcoholism, which are the
                    most potent factors in mental defectiveness." Given the close connections the research made
                    between the genetic causes of feeblemindedness and the effects of the condition on social pathology,
                    the committee argued that "the education of a wholesome public opinion concerning the
                    treatment, care and prevention of the mental defective is a necessity."26
            
            A cornerstone of the 1916 report was a "Survey of Two Counties by Field Workers of the
                    Eugenics Record Office." The researchers of the Eugenics Record Office included Arthur
                    Estabrook, a nationally respected figure in research on feeblemindedness, as well as other field
                    workers experienced in such research. They conducted an extensive and detailed study of two
                    counties, "A county and "B" county, to ascertain the nature and extent of
                    mental disability in the state. The completed study responded to 
                        Butler
                    's calls for research by examining, through "field studies of the
                    mental defective," how geography, economics, and genealogy affected the status of mental
                        disability.27
            
            Estabrook and his colleagues closely investigated "A" county (
                        Putnam
                    ) and "B" county (
                        Huntington
                    ) during a three-and-one-half-month period, gathering data on all three categories of
                    mental disability but concentrating most of their discussion on the feebleminded. The study included
                    descriptions of each county's geography, topography, economic development, and
                    demographics, including the ethnic origins of residents. According to the researchers,
                    "Practically every person who has been studied in this enumeration of mental defectives,
                    has been visited either in his own home, at school or at business. In many cases the investigators
                    have talked with parents and have advised as to the future care and training of some of the
                    defective children."28
            
            The survey consisted of numerical data in table form and an analysis of the data. The tables provide
                    totals from each county of the three categories of disability, sorted by gender and by
                    "grade" of feeblemindedness; the tables also contain information on defectives,
                    whether institutionalized or not. From this information the researchers developed specific
                    percentages of defectives in the general population. According to the data, "A"
                    county had 1.8 epileptics per 1,000 
                  
                     26
                     Ibid., 4-6.
                  
                     27"Data Collected Survey of Two Counties by Field Workers of
                            Eugenics Record Office," in ibid., 7-17.
                  
                     28
                     Ibid., 7; Arthur Estabrook to Amos 
                                Butler
                            , September 8, 1916, Folder 2, Box A4113, Papers of the Board of State Charities
                            of Indiana (Indiana State Archives, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ) hereafter cited as IBSC Papers; "Comm. on Mental Defectives: Misc.
                            Correspondence," Box A4112, ibid.
                  
               
                     persons; 1 in 263 was insane; 13.9 per 1,000 were feebleminded
                    (with a total of 285 feebleminded persons). "B" county had 1.9 epileptics per
                    1,000; 1 in 408 was insane; and 7.6 per 1,000, for a total of 252, were feebleminded. Based on these
                    numbers, the survey estimated the number of epileptics in the state as just under 5,000, with about
                    1,000 requiring institutional care. However, given the disparities in the number of insane persons
                    in the two counties, the report stated that "it is difficult to estimate the number of
                    insane in the state." Similar inconsistencies occurred in identifying the number of
                    feebleminded persons: "the difference between the ratios … is so great that no
                    accurate estimate of the total amount of feeblemindedness in the state can be made."29
            
            Because of the importance they placed upon heredity and social interaction skills in determining
                    feeblemindedness, the research team centered much of their efforts on looking at families and living
                    environments. For example, the report stated that 
                        The southern part of ‘A’ county, hilly, rugged and unproductive, has
                            sheltered for many years a class of people listless and lazy and indifferent. The people
                            have intermarried because of the geographical features of the county about them and have
                            intermingled little with the more intelligent and mentally active people of the rich lands
                            at the north of the county. There is little enforcement of the law respecting marriage.
                     The report reiterated similar observations in discussing "B" county,
                    emphasizing the importance of geography in determining the extent of feeblemindedness in a given
                    area: 
                        ‘B’ county, as mentioned, is, in general, flat and has very fertile
                            land throughout. This uniformly good land, rather level except for the valleys made by the
                            three rivers which cross the county, has determined to a great extent the character of the
                            people who live in the region. The commonly inefficient, lazy, degenerate families cannot
                            gather in any large groups, as in the southern part of‘A’ county,
                            because of the competition of the more energetic, normal citizens for the control of the
                            land. The more inefficient are soon pushed off the fertile land by competition of the
                            industrious ones and as there are no comparatively non-arable acres, the more shiftless and
                            inefficient ones cannot exist so easily in the community.30
                  
                    
                
            A companion study published in the ICMD's 1916 report on "Relation of Mental
                    Defectives to Schools, Pauperism, Dependency and Delinquency" again stressed the familiar
                    assumption that mental disability played a significant role in social pathology. The report
                    attempted to demonstrate this by describing in detail the genealogical backgrounds of individuals
                    residing in the county poor asylum, particularly the ancestors and contemporary family members who
                    purportedly practiced social vices and exhibited the presumed characteristics of the feebleminded.
                    The report made frequent references to the extreme social and economic burden such individuals and
                    families placed on public resources. It argued that "the part which men- 
                  
                     29Indiana, Committee on Mental Defectives, Report,
                            1916, 12-15.
                  
                     30
                     Ibid., 13.
               
                     tal defectiveness plays in the problem of the pauper, the
                    dependent and the defedive both in and out of the institution, in juvenile and adult delinquency,
                    and in the social relationships in society, can readily be seen" from these minutely
                    detailed descriptions.31
            
            The 1916 ICMD report was adamant in emphasizing two other concerns: the problem of the
                    "unrecognized moron" and the housing of the defective, especially the
                    feebleminded, at public expense in institutions unsuited to their care. Noting that research in both
                    counties revealed "a number who are not now recognized as feebleminded by those in contact
                    with them," the investigators described the serious "problem of the unrecognized moron. … these are the ones who fill our jails and almshouses and
                    whose children are likely to show more marked feeble-mindedness than their parents." Such
                    concerns echoed those expressed by state leaders such as 
                        Butler
                     and Bliss and national leaders such as Goddard. Of more immediate concern to the state
                    was the related problem of unidentified or misidentified defectives being cared for in institutions
                    that were not designed to house them. The report documented that numbers of such individuals were
                    "in institutions of a correctional or eleemosynary nature where they should not
                    be." Coupled with the significant numbers of defectives who needed institutionalization but
                    were not receiving it, the report clearly proved that the state's responses to the problem
                    of the epileptic, the insane, and the feebleminded were inefficient and inadequate.32
            
            Given the results of the studies, the ICMD's conclusions and recommendations about mental
                    retardation are hardly surprising. Finding "the problem of mental defectives in Indiana of
                    serious magnitude" and explaining that its work thus far was only preliminary, the
                    committee urged the expansion of the School for Feebleminded Youth and the passage of a law
                    providing for state-initiated commitment of "patients" to the ISFMY, including
                    extension of the adult commitment law to include males (previously the law had applied only to women
                    of child-bearing age). It also recommended mental and physical examinations of all school children
                    and, most importantly, the enactment of a law providing for "a commission, with sufficient
                    funds, to study the entire question of the mental defectives in this state."33
            
            In 1917 Governor James P. Goodrich reappointed the committee "in the hope that this State
                    may profit by the investigations" and provided it with $10,000 "to
                    continue the work begun in 1915." A second report, issued in 1919, continued in the same
                    vein as the first, calling the mental defective "an ever-present menace" and
                    expressing 
                  
                     31"Relation of Mental Defectives to Schools, Pauperism,
                            Dependency and Delinquency: Relation of Defectives to the School Problem: Summary of a
                            Survey of 
                        Porter County, Indiana
                     ," in Indiana, Committee on Mental
                            Defectives, Report, 1916, 18-29.
                  
                     32
                     Ibid., 14, 16.
                  
                     33
                     Ibid., 32-33.
               
                     grave concern over the ubiquity of the "high grade
                    feebleminded, or morons… " These, the report asserted, "constitute the
                    large group from which come prostitutes, petty offenders of both sexes, the idle and shiftless, the
                    ne'er-do-wells, and the educational failures that retard our school progress." The
                    ICMD lauded its own efforts and those of the state while setting its goals high: 
                        Indiana has this big problem to face. The appointing of the committee and the work of the
                            survey is the biggest step taken to date by any State in the Union. If Indiana heeds the
                            message and takes the next steps—laws for the commitment of defectives, and more
                            institutions to which to send them—she will have added to her high ideals for the
                            care of her poor and the reformation of her offenders, the training and prevention of mental
                            defect.
                     The committee underscored the state's leading role in dealing with mental
                    disability. Indiana's situation was not worse than that of other states, it argued,
                    claiming that its research results "might easily find a counterpart in practically any
                    other State in the Union" and that "the light thrown upon the living habits and
                    economic failures of Indiana's feebleminded should help to illumine the problem wherever it
                        exists."34
            
            The 1919 report consisted almost entirely of another survey of Indiana counties, similar to the
                    two-county survey of 1916 but much larger in scope. This report called attention to the limited
                    context and relatively unrepresentative nature of the initial two-county study, noting the counties
                    "were very prosperous and in exceptionally good country. The figures from this original
                    study, one percent of the population, showed social conditions at their best."
                    Consequently, the ICMD commissioned another study, this one of eight other Indiana counties,
                    "c" through "J" (
                  Switzerland, Steuben, Delaware
               , Marshall, 
                  Warrick, Monroe
               , Sullivan, and 
                        Boone
                    , respectively), which were presumably more "representative parts of Indiana;
                    representative for natural formation and resources, for industries, and particular characteristics
                    of its population—disadvantages as well as advantages being purposely
                        chosen."35
            
            Estabrook of the Eugenic Record Office (ERO) again led the study, joined by Helen Reeves, Edna Jatho,
                    and Marion Nash of the Vineland Training School; Jan Griffiths, a surveyor for the National
                    Commission for Provision for the Feeble-minded; Edith Dawes of the ERO; and Hazel Hansford, a
                    psychology graduate student at Indiana University who supervised the work in 
                        Monroe County
                    . In addition to its continued association with many of the organizations included in
                    the first report, the ICMD had the advantage of the $10,000 grant from the state
                    legislature.
            
               
                  34Governor James P. Goodrich to nominees for the Indiana Committee on
                        Mental Defectives, May 15, 1917, in file labeled "Minutes 1917," Box A4115,
                        IBSC Papers; Indiana, Committee on Mental Defectives, Report, 1919, 7-8.
               
                  35
                  Ibid., 7.
            
            
            The research team employed basically the same methodology—inquiry and home
                    visits—that had been used for the first study; the array of individuals consulted,
                    however, was much more extensive. The team sought preliminary information and opinions from
                    physicians and teachers, who were "practically the only persons notified of the coming
                    survey." Public school teachers and other school administrators were consulted extensively
                    and became an important part of the team's efforts to gather information. Bliss gave
                    preparatory presentations to the teachers' institutes in each of the eight counties in
                    August and September of 1917. Once the survey formally began, "political and social leaders
                    were interviewed to acquaint them with the problem Indiana faces … to insure
                    comprehending support of the State's attempts toward its solution." Physicians,
                    supervisors of programs for the poor, various government officials, and other "Persons or
                    Organizations Interested in Community Welfare" also served as consultants and sources.
                    Based on the information gathered, investigators conducted "friendly home visits"
                    and 
                        after observing the living conditions, and conversing with the family, were able to draw
                            conclusions in regard to type and degree of mental defect. Along the roadside there were
                            often many other houses to be found which by their forlorn and unkempt exteriors tried to
                            tell of the unfortunates they sheltered. A casual visit into such poor homes usually added
                            names to the growing list of defectives.36
                  
                    
                
            An examination of "County H," the one in-depth county study available from this
                    second report, offers a glimpse into the methods of data collection typically employed by ICMD field
                    researchers. According to Hansford, author of a report on the extended study and one of the field
                    researchers, this particular survey was a "special investigation" directed by
                    professors U. G. Weatherly and W. H. Book of Indiana University. Using a combination of local
                    history, interviews and questionnaires, family studies, traditional numerical data compilation, and
                    site visits, data collectors attempted to capture a comprehensive and vivid picture of the life of
                    the feebleminded in 
                        Monroe County
                    .37
            
            According to Hansford, the most valuable sources of information came from the IBSC, which kept
                    "the names of all those people from County H who were receiving or had received
                    institutional care in 
                  
                     36
                     Ibid., 6, 9-10. The IBSC papers reveal that the
                            committee experienced great turnover in the field workers hired to conduct the research for
                            the survey; see especially the various correspondence files in Box A4112, correspondence
                            between Joseph Byers of the Committee on Provision for the Feeble-minded and Amos 
                                Butler
                            . Byers to 
                                Butler
                            , August 20, 1918, "1915-1922 Comm. on Mental Defectives," Box
                            A4113, IBSC Papers. Edna Jatho, one of the most prominent field workers, prepared dozens of
                            detailed letters regarding her work for the second report; see "Correspondence
                            J," Box A4112, ibid.
                  
                  
                     37Hazel Irene Hansford, "A Social Study of Mental Defectives
                            in County H., Indiana, in 1918," in Indiana University Studies:
                                Contributions to Knowledge Made by Instructors and Advanced Students of the
                            University, M (JanuaryDecember 1922), 5-148; Indiana, Committee on Mental Defectives,
                                Report, 1919, 6.
               
                     the past 2 years" in jails or poor asylums and those
                    who were on poor relief rolls. The researchers also obtained a list "from each physician in
                    the county containing the names of all epileptic, insane, and feeble-minded persons known to
                    them." The research team administered the 
                        Stanford
                     revised intelligence test to all "questionable" school children
                    "and then classified [the child] according to his Intelligence Quotient, teacher's
                    estimate, ancestral and personal history." The team gathered basic census figures and
                    prepared tables showing the number of "morons, imbeciles, idiots, insane, and
                    epileptic" in the county and their respective percentage of the total population.38
            
            Also presented in the report was a detailed description of the county's geography and
                    population distribution and an explanation of how these affected the county's economic and
                    social development: 
                        For those of vicious characteristics and criminal history the hills afforded a ready refuge.
                            The hills also claimed those colonists who had not the intelligence, the initiative, or the
                            perseverance to obtain a foothold in the rich, open valleys or in the rapidly developing
                            business affairs at the county seat. They and their descendants have proven a serious
                            problem for ‘H county.
                     The report also compared the "best" families with
                    "inferior" groups, noting that certain families were "reckless and
                    wild," "liked their whiskey," and "scandalized their communities
                    with their behavior. Hansford went on to describe how intermarriage and the
                    "haphazard" employment of those in the inferior families led to further
                        deterioration.39
            
            Visits to the homes and neighborhoods of low-functioning families generated some of the most
                    interesting data. Hansford wrote that persons rated as "subnormal" were visited at
                    home, as were nearby relatives. "The people were quite ready to talk over their illnesses
                    and troubles," she claimed, "and in the course of the friendly conversations many
                    new cases were discovered." In visits to the Baker family, "a feeble-minded quarry
                    group," their questionable lineage, limited capabilities, immoral behavior, and wretched
                    living conditions were spelled out in great detail. From the aimlessness and bizarre conduct of the
                    seven Baker brothers to the vulnerability and dangerous attractiveness of sisters Violet and Lucy,
                    and the drunkenness, prostitution, and general "inferiority" of the wife and
                    offspring of Hiram Baker (the "black sheep" of the family), the Bakers'
                    lives and character are described in order to reveal the supposed genetic origins of
                    feeblemindedness and the nature of a life of isolation and squalor in the hills of 
                        Monroe County
                    . This family's portrait came not only from the field researchers'
                    visits but also from neighborhood gossip and the opinions of the local physician. The description
                    concluded by claiming, "Here is a family which seems to be on the downward 
                  
                     38Hansford, "Social Study of Mental Defectives,"
                            16-19.
                  
                     39Indiana, Committee on Mental Defectives, Report,
                            1919, 26; Hansford, "Social Study of Mental Defectives," 8-9.
               
                     path. … If the coming generation can be judged by
                    what they are as young children, the chances are that the third generation will be even of a lower
                    type than that of the second." Hansford defended the extensive detail of both the Baker
                    study and the other field reports generated by the research teams: "Since
                    Indiana… is endeavoring to place the problem of the mental defective before the people
                    and because very few of the individuals outside active social work are acquainted with the mental
                    defective as he really exists, it was thought best to make the treatment as concrete as
                        possible."40
            
            Other sections of the 1919 report offer even greater detail of such home visits. In one,
                    "Emma … a colored woman about thirty-five" was found in a home with
                    "one bed for the family of five. It is rag-littered and dirty. On this lay Emma, completely
                    wrapped in potato sacking. She would not move her head during our interview." Another visit
                    took place in the "tumbledown shack" of the Holly family. "Inside the
                    rooms are dark … and indescribably filthy. There was absolutely no attempt at
                    cleanliness, and the place reeked with all kinds of odors." The visitor described Stella
                    Holly's arrival, "driving a crippled old mule [that] looked as decrepit and
                    feebleminded as everything else about the place." Such descriptions were accompanied by a
                    family tree showing how the line developed and identifying the prostitutes, the insane, the
                    psychopathic, and the "monstrosities" who were among its members. This early
                    anthropological fieldwork was the characteristic feature of the 1919 report.41
            
            The results of the second survey increased the number and percentage of mental defectives assumed to
                    be in the state. Combining the results from the two counties studied in 1916 with the eight
                    additional counties of the second survey, the research team reported a total of 4,157 feebleminded
                    persons, with 417 of those under care in various state- or county-operated institutions. The data
                    also showed 776 insane individuals and 389 epileptics in the surveyed area, thus making 2.1 percent
                    of the studied population defective, with 1.65 percent feebleminded. In another finding, more than
                    63 percent of county poor-asylum residents were determined to be defective. The survey also found
                    that "without doubt 10 percent of the school children need special instruction, and
                    probably two to three percent are feeble-minded. In this study 2.5 percent [of children] were found
                    to be three years or more retarded" in terms of their progress through the school
                        grades.42
            
            The study's conclusion that there were significantly larger numbers of low-functioning
                    persons in the general population than was generally believed was accompanied by further claims
                    concerning 
                  
                     40Hansford, "Social Study of Mental Defectives," 6,
                            20-23.
                  
                     41Indiana, Committee on Mental Defectives, Report,
                            1919, 41-46.
                  
                     42
                     Ibid., 31-33. The counties were identified in
                            "Comm. on Mental Defectives: Misc. Correspondence," Box A4112, IBSC
                            Papers.
               
                     the close relationship among geography, employment, family,
                    character, and feeblemindedness. If anything, this report's narrative expressed greater
                    alarm than did the first. It referred to tenant farmers as a "prolific source of
                    feeble-minded population." The report stated that "many morons live as
                    ‘tenant’ farmers. … What the owner gets out of it we can only
                    guess. It certainly is less than it would be if he gave a mental test to his tenants." The
                    report further described the dangers of the moron as "the great social menace":
                        
                        The salient fact is this: [morons] are not recognized until their social, economic, and
                            educational failures draw the condemnation of public welfare authorities upon their
                            defenseless heads. With the mental equipment of children they are expected to conduct
                            themselves as adults. They fail pitifully.43
                  
                    
                
            A central theme of the second report reinforced the presumed hereditary nature of feeblemindedness as
                    a condition passed on inescapably from generation to generation, exacerbated by geographic isolation
                    and economic deprivation and complicated by incest. The report drew clear distinctions between
                    well-maintained communities of "good" and "normal" citizens and
                    the wretchedness of the feebleminded. In "F County," the feebleminded population
                    was concentrated at the county seat: 
                        It is a beautiful town, a very garden spot, containing about the edges the saddest patches of
                            weeds that are choking out the healthy normal growth of its fine population. …
                            Saturday on Main street brought out an appalling number of very defective citizens; lame,
                            feebleminded, insane and immoral. … The loose, immoral relations within the
                            families of these defectives are not a secret about town. The defect in these people is so
                            noticeable that it does not escape recognition. Yet the good people of the town do not
                            realize what a menace they have in their midst.
                     Poor families on infertile land were frequently portrayed as almost universally defective
                    and condemned to a life on the economic and social margins because of their mental and moral
                    incapacity. Even those defectives who had made progress were criticized: "[M]any mental
                    defectives are making more money than they ever dreamed of before and using it with the same lack of
                    foresight and judgment that has always characterized their spendings."44
            
            In response to the committee's concern that the public was insufficiently aware of the
                    problem, the 1919 report reiterated and elaborated on the conclusions and recommendations stated in
                    1916. The authors argued for expansion of institutional facilities and for stronger commitment laws
                    that would allow the state to compel the institutionalization of more defectives. In particular they
                    advocated committing 
                  
                     43Indiana, Committee on Mental Defectives, Report,
                            1919, 7-8, 13. Jatho's correspondence also reflected this alarm: see for
                            example Jatho to 
                                Butler
                            , February 1, 1919, "Correspondence J," Box A4112, IBSC
                            Papers. Many other letters in the same file show the same concern. See also Jatho,
                            "Feeblemindedness—The Problem—Conditions in
                            Indiana," paper presented at the Indiana Academy of Science, December 1918, ibid.
                  
                  
                     44Indiana, Committee on Mental Defectives, Report,
                            1919, 22-23, 20, 28.
               
                     a far larger number of the feebleminded to the ISFMY and other
                    "colonies." The study repeated the calls for incarcerating more low-functioning
                    males and for screening all school children for mental and physical defects. It also suggested
                    creating separate schools and classes for defective students and establishing free clinics
                    throughout the state for community-based diagnosis and treatment. Finally, the report urged the
                    state to require all physicians to become more expert in identifying and treating all kinds of
                    mental disability.45
            
            Following the release of its second report, the ICMD was recom-missioned by Governor Warren McCray.
                    It received an additional $1,000 in 1920 and $10,000 in 1921 to continue its
                    work. Although the membership changed, the assumptions and tenor of the committee's work
                    and findings remained the same under 
                        Butler
                    's leadership. The title page of the second edition of this
                    committee's report, published in 1923, included the following subtitles: 
                        YOU SHOULD READ THIS! EVERY CITIZEN SHOULD KNOW THE FACTS CONTAINED HEREIN
                        The Uncared-for Insane, Epileptic and Feeble-Minded Constitute a Menace to Society[.] The
                            Feeble-Minded are the Most Potent Influence for Evil in the Social Life[.] Social Progress
                            is Hindered by These Uncared-for Elements in the Community.46
                  
                    
                
            This third report presented cumulative data from the previous studies and added the study of
                    "K" (Jefferson) County, conducted in 1921. The cumulative data showed 4,735
                    feebleminded out of a total defective population of 6,026 in the eleven counties. It estimated the
                    low-functioning population at 1.74 percent and concluded that the state had 64,468 defectives, most
                    of whom were classified feebleminded. According to the report, "this corresponds with the
                    figures which the Federal Government has lately published, giving the number of defectives in the 
                        United States
                     as 2,000,000." The report reiterated that only a small percentage of
                    feebleminded persons who could or should be institutionalized in fact were.47
            
            The 1922 report also contained a variety of other studies and sub-reports on various aspects of
                    social welfare in the state. Surveys were conducted of the 
                        Marion County
                     Criminal Court, 
                        Marion County
                     Juvenile Court, and the Indiana Girls School; predictably these revealed that a
                    significant percentage of cases exhibited strong signs of mental retardation. The ICMDs report also
                    featured a detailed survey of the school systems of "City X" (
                        Richmond
                    ) and "City Y" (
                        Peru
                    ). The goal of these two surveys was to "add to the information 
                  
                     45
                     Ibid., 59-61.
                  
                     46Indiana, Committee on Mental Defectives, Report,
                            1923, 6-7.
                  
                     47
                     Ibid., 14-15. 
                                Jefferson County
                             is identified in correspondence related to the financial feasibility of
                            continuing that particular study. See for example Estabrook to Dr. James W. Milligan,
                            Superintendent of the Southeastern Hospital for the Insane, August 10, 1921,
                            "Committee on Mental Defectives," Box A4113, IBSC Papers; 
                                Butler
                             to 
                                Marion
                             Nash, field worker, August 9, 1921, and Estabrook to Milligan, August 17,1921,
                            "Comm. on Mental Defectives, Misc. Correspondence," ibid.
                  
               
                     already gathered by the Committee on Mental Defectives, some
                    concrete data concerning the extent of the mentally deficient population of public
                    schools." Each study provided detailed descriptions of its city, descriptions of the
                    tests—the Indiana University Primer Test and the Terman revision of the Binet
                    test—used to gauge the intellectual capacity of the students, and thorough analysis of
                    the results of these mental tests. The surveys found that 11.8 percent of the school children in
                    "City X" were "below normal mental development," with 3.3
                    percent of these "feebleminded," 3.3 percent "borderline," and
                    5.2 percent "dull normal." "City Y" showed 10.6 percent below
                    normal mental development, 3.9 percent feebleminded, 3.2 percent borderline, and 3.5 percent
                    dull-normal. The ICMD report asserted that "about ten percent of the children in the first
                    six grades of the public schools of these two cities are unfit mentally to profit by the work of a
                    regular class. …" As a result, the research team strongly recommended a series
                    of "special instruction" responses to address the problem: organized coaching and
                    observation of such students in special classes, individualized scholastic training for those
                    capable of it, and assignment of "certain selected children" to specific
                    "Trade or Occupational Lines." The report expressed the need for trained and
                    highly qualified teachers for these programs. It also recommended classes of twenty or fewer
                    students, "traveling psychological clinics," and more extensive school surveys in
                    cities across the state.48
            
            Of the three, this report offered the most specific recommendations for addressing the general
                    problem of mental disability. The "committee recognizes," it said, "the
                    fact that care and provision for the feebleminded must be divided between the home or community, the
                    public school and state institutions." Those cases that "cannot, without menace to
                    the community, be provided for in the home or the public school" should be accommodated in
                    state institutions—those in 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and Butlerville, and others to be established "from time to time in convenient
                    parts of the state." It also recommended the continued segregation of both
                    "feebleminded women of child-bearing age" and "defective
                    delinquents." To help public schools effectively increase their role in addressing the
                    problem, the ICMD suggested expansion of segregated special classes, "intensive
                    study" of all school children, employment of psychologists in schools and clinics, and
                    stronger training of teachers in the methods of special education for the "mentally
                    deficient." And as before, the ICMD concluded its recommendations by calling on the
                    legislature to preserve 
                  
                     48"School Surveys," in Indiana, Commitee on Mental
                            Defectives, Report, 1923, 28-46. The surveys of the Richmond and Peru
                            school systems were the subject of much of the correspondence preserved in the IBSC Papers.
                            See the series of letters between Jatho and Estabrook dated from late 1921 to early 1922 in
                            "Correspondence J," Box A4112, IBSC Papers. Documents related to the 
                                Peru
                             survey can also be found in "Committee on Mental Defectives,"
                            Box A4113, ibid.
                  
               
                     and utilize the information gathered and to appropriate
                    sufficient funds for the committee to continue its work.49
            
            That, however, was not to be; the report was the committee's last. Dr. S. E. Smith,
                    superintendent of the Eastern Hospital for the Insane in 
                        Richmond
                     and a member of the committee, said in 1924 that he hoped the ICMD would
                    "continue to function the best it knows how" and "that they are earnest
                    and willing to do whatever the law will permit. …" However, the committee fell
                    victim to fiscal conservatism. It had struggled to convince Governor McCray that the study of
                    "K" county should be completed but, although he eventually agreed, in his opening
                    address to the 1923 legislature he asserted that "what the people of Indiana want is a
                    season of governmental economy and a period of legislative inaction and rest." The
                    legislature concurred. Recognizing the importance of reducing the state's expenditures, the
                    committee requested just $8,000 from the legislature for fiscal 1924 and 1925; it got
                    nothing, even though the committee sent a letter to every member of the legislature proclaiming the
                    value and relative economy of their work. Despite further pleas to the 1925 legislature and to
                    governor-elect Ed Jackson, the ICMD failed to secure reap-pointment or funding. Its final formal
                    meeting took place on November 7, 1924.50
            
            While the ICMD's three formal reports, distributed in the thousands nationwide, represented
                    the primary visible products of its work, the committee also initiated and strengthened contacts and
                    activities with a range of other individuals, organizations, and institutions. Committee members,
                    although never paid more than expenses, met in 
                        Indianapolis
                     regularly and participated often in workshops, conferences, and other events around
                    Indiana. The committee put a great deal of time and energy into organizing a conference on mental
                    disability held in October 1916, making widespread solicitations for participants and attendees
                    months in advance. The field workers themselves, especially Jatho, maintained frequent and detailed
                    contact and correspondence with Estabrook and Butler during their work, revealing the significant
                    extent to which ICMD representatives worked with schools, social service agencies, local courts, and
                        
                  
                     49Indiana, Committee on Mental Defectives, Conclusions
                                and Recommendations, 1924, 1-2.
                  
                     50Dr. S. E. Smith, "The Work of the Committee on Mental
                            Defectives," Indiana Bulletin of Charities and Corrections (March
                            1924), 8-9. For the financial situation surrounding the 
                                Jefferson County
                             study see Estabrook to Milligan, August 10, 1921 and August 17, 1921, and
                            Butler to Marion Nash, August 9, 1921, IBSC Papers. The McCray quote is from the Indiana,
                                Senate Journal (1923), 6. For the efforts to keep the ICMD alive see
                            Indiana Committee on Mental Defectives, "Minutes," August 8, 1923, Box
                            A4115, IBSC Papers; and "Minutes," November 7, 1924, ibid. See also S. E. Smith, "The Indiana Committee on Mental
                            Defectives," Indiana Bulletin of Charities and Corrections
                            (December 1923), 335-37; and Arthur H. Estabrook, "The Work of the Indiana
                            Committee on Mental Defectives," Journal ofPsycho-Asthenics,
                            XXVII (1921/1922), 12-17.
               
                     other institutions. In their constant struggle to find, hire,
                    and keep a sufficient supply of qualified field workers, committee members, especially Estabrook and
                    Butler, sought advice and recommendations from some of the nation's most respected figures,
                    including E. R. Johnstone of the Vineland Training School and Joseph Byers, director of the 
                        Philadelphia
                    -based Committee for Provision for the Feeble-Minded. These connections generated a
                    large body of correspondence and exchange of information and materials. In return, 
                        Butler
                    , Estabrook, and others made fact-finding visits to other states and described
                    Indiana's work in a variety of journals, conferences, and other forums. Such efforts helped
                    maintain the committee's high profile across the state and nation throughout most of its
                    nine-year existence.51
            
            The actual impact of the committee's work on state policy and practice, however, was mixed.
                    The state did pass legislation during the late 1910s that expanded facilities for defectives,
                    including a new Indiana Farm Colony for the Feebleminded at Butlerville, and established
                    "mental clinics" for better determination of mental disability among the
                    population. The state also passed comprehensive legislation in 1931 ordering annual enumeration of
                    "problem" and "retarded" children in the public schools and
                    authorizing the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     institution to train teachers for special classes in those schools. The number of
                    special classes for feebleminded children in the public schools increased dramatically by the
                    mid-1920s and more thorough mental and physical examination of school children became standard. The
                    ICMD's efforts also helped stimulate the study of mental disability through other agencies
                    such as the Indiana Society for Mental Hygiene, the State Conference on Charities and Correction,
                    and the State Teachers' Association. But the statewide clinics were short-lived, lasting
                    only two or three years in the mid-1920s, and the two state institutions for the feebleminded, the
                    ISFMY at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and the colony at Butlerville, struggled to serve the needs of the state. Finally, the
                    committee proved unable to convince the legislature of the value or necessity of a permanent
                    statewide commission to deal with the problem of the feebleminded. "With all that has been
                    done for mental defectives," wrote the IBSC, "it is only the surface of the
                    problem that has been touched."52
            
            
               
                  51As noted earlier, much of the standard correspondence of the ICMD
                        concerned inviting various individuals to attend the October 1916 conference either as attendees
                        or participants; see "Correspondence L," Box A4112, IBSC Papers;
                        "Minutes," September 27, 1917, Box A4115, ibid.;
                        "Comm. on Mental Defectives Misc. Corr.," Box A4113, ibid.
               
               
                  52Indiana, Laws (1919), 480; Indiana, Laws (1931), 493; Indiana Bulletin of Charities and Corrections
                        (May/June 1932), 260-61; Indiana, Board of State Chanties, Report, 1920, 117;
                        Estabrook, "Work of the Indiana Committee on Mental Defectives," 17; Indiana,
                        Board of State Charities, Report, 1923, 9. For a highly critical review of the
                        Butlerville facility see Walter Fernald to Warren T. McCray, February 21, 1922, Box 5, 
                            Butler
                         Papers.
            
         
         
         
            Young Believers and Old Believers in the Wilderness: Narratives of Place and the Construction of
                    Family among Western Shakers
            Dawn E. Bakken*
            
            Over the past three decades, scholars of nineteenth-century communitarian religious movements have
                    examined the ways in which groups such as the Shakers, the Mormons, and the Oneida Community
                    redefined and challenged definitions of family.1 There are still, however,
                    discoveries to be made among the journals, diaries, and letters of these people. One little-studied
                    aspect of the Society of Believers in Christ's Second Appearing, or the Shakers, is the
                    establishment of new communities on the western frontier of 
                  Ohio, Kentucky
               , and
                    Indiana during the first three decades of the nineteenth century. How difficult was it for Shaker
                    missionaries from the East to move to the relatively primitive frontier, try to make converts amidst
                    competition from Methodists, Baptists, and Presbyterians, and, simultaneously, build large-scale
                    communal settlements? Did western converts think of themselves and their place within the Society in
                    the same ways in which their eastern-bred leaders did, given the considerable differences in
                    experience? Did Shakers, old and new, build spiritual and emotional families as quickly and
                    successfully as they built their physical settlements? One useful case study for these questions is
                    the first Shaker community in the West, Turtle Creek, 
                        Ohio
                    . It offers a contrast between Old Believers (missionaries from the East) and Young
                    Believers (converts from the West) because the majority of the easterners spent many or all of their
                    early years in the West at Turtle Creek, and several lived there permanently. Others were assigned
                    to the communities of Shawnee Run and Gasper, 
                        Kentucky
                    , and Busro, Indiana, but most had begun their western missionary work at Turtle Creek,
                    and they returned ohn for fellowship and for counsel.2
            
            
               
                  *Dawn E. Bakken received a Ph.D. in Religious Studies and
                        American Studies from Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        . Her dissertation, "Putting the Shakers ‘In Place’:
                        Union Village, 
                            Ohio
                        , 1805–1815," dealt with the early history of western Shakers.
               
                  1See, for example, Lawrence Foster, Religion and Sexuality:
                            Three American Communal Experiments of the Nineteenth Century (
                            New York
                        , 1981); Rosabeth Moss Kanter, Commitment and Community: Communes and
                            Utopias in Sociological Perspective (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1972). Later studies include Priscilla J. Brewer, Shaker
                            Communities, Shaker Lives (
                            Hanover
                        , N.H., 1986); Marjorie Procter-Smith, Women in Shaker Community and
                            Worship: A Feminist Analysis of the Uses of Religious Symbolism (Lewiston, Me., 1985).
               
                  2The names used for western settlements are those used by the Believers
                        from 1805 until each community signed the official Shaker covenant. Turtle Creek became
            
            
            Reading the letters, journals, memoirs, hymns, and theological writings of these early western
                    Shakers, one finds an intriguing pattern. Both missionaries and converts developed an image-rich
                    language to describe their new family and community, the non-Shaker world around them, and their
                    brothers and sisters in the East. However, the content of this language varies substantially between
                    the Young and Old Believers, the words of the former full of praise and optimism, while those of the
                    latter betray a longing for what has been lost and, on occasion, a surprisingly strong desire to be
                    elsewhere. These variations suggest that the two groups were creating divergent understandings of
                    place and community in the first years at Turtle Creek. To understand them better we need to examine
                    the experiences and emotions of both groups during their first years on the 
                        Ohio
                     frontier.
            In the early years of the nineteenth century settlers poured into the small towns and onto the rich
                    farmlands between the Miami rivers in south-central 
                        Ohio
                    . The rural area known as Turtle Creek lay just a few miles west of the new but quickly
                    expanding town of 
                        Lebanon
                    . Farms were beginning to cover the landscape, enterprising settlers were building the
                    first mills on the Little 
                        Miami
                     River, businesses were starting in town, and the Presbyterians, Methodists, and
                    Baptists had formed congregations among the area's settlers. Religion had already become a
                    source of community contention, after Presbyterian pastor Richard McNemar led his congregation, as
                    well as many other Presbyterians and some Baptists, out of the Presbyterian fold and toward the more
                    radical elements of the New Light movement that had already swept through neighboring 
                        Kentucky
                    .3
            
            By 1805 McNemar and his congregants had moved well outside Calvinist orthodoxy by renouncing the
                    doctrine of predestination and redefining notions of atonement and sin. The self-professed
                    schismatics believed that Christ had destroyed sin so that all who became "united to him
                    were true Christ" and "were perfect in one." Every individual could
                    choose to "become personally righteous" and thus free from sin. Members examined
                    their lives minutely and were expected to confess misdeeds publicly. During one meeting in April
                    1804, congregant Samuel Kimbel admitted to "associating with the wicked in a tavern, and
                    tossing a dollar for whisky"; having sworn to amend his ways, he was forgiven. Members
                    sought to recreate the 
                  Union Village; Shawnee Run and Gasper became Pleasant Hill and South Union; Busro became
                            West Union. "Old" and "Young" are original Shaker
                            designations for easterners and converts.
                  
                     3On early 
                                Ohio
                             see R. Douglas Hurt, The 
                                    Ohio
                                 Frontier: Crucible of the Old Northwest, 1720-1830 (
                                Bloomington
                            , Ind., 1996); Carl Wittke, ed., The History of the State of 
                                    Ohio
                                : Vol. 11, The Frontier State, 1801-1825, by William
                            T. Utter (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1942); The History of 
                                    Warren County
                                , 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882). On the 
                                Kentucky
                             revivals see Paul K. Conkin, Cane Ridge: America's
                                Pentecost (
                                Madison
                            , Wis., 1990); Richard McNemar, The 
                                    Kentucky
                                 Revival, or, a Short History of the Late Extraordinary Out-pouring of the
                                Spirit of God, in the Western States of America (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1807).
               
                     New Testament church: they swore to follow the Bible alone as
                    their source of authority, and they began calling each other brother and sister. They also became a
                    local byword for their religious exercises, which included common revival phenomena such as the
                    "jerks" (involuntary movements of the body) and the "barks"
                    (involuntary sounds, such as the barking of a dog). Services also included ecstatic prophecy,
                    visions, and prayers that grew so frenzied that "praying-matches," a kind of
                    spiritual competition in which supplicants vied to be the most interesting and
                    "lively" participant, were used to decide congregational controversies. As their
                    expectations for holy and perfected lives became ever greater, the Turtle Creek New Lights cast
                    about for new forms in which to express their faith. In March 1805 the opportunity for a new kind of
                    Christian living appeared in the message of three Shakers who had traveled to the frontier from
                    their settlement in eastern 
                        New York
                    .4
            
            The first Shakers had arrived on American soil from 
                        England
                     in 1774. During the 1780s and 1790s the small group of sectarians, led by their founder
                    Ann Lee (and, after her death in 1784, by English convert James Whittaker and then American convert
                    Joseph Meacham), gathered hundreds of new members from the Baptist revivals that swept New 
                        England
                     in the late eighteenth century. By 1805, now led by American convert Lucy Wright, the
                    Shakers had spread out into eleven communities in 
                  Maine, New Hampshire, Vermont, Massachusetts, Connecticut
               , and 
                        New York
                    . After confessing their sins and signing a covenant (which included relinquishing all
                    lands and material possessions to the Society), members entered into a communal life of celibacy and
                    simplicity, worship and manual labor, and obedience to the society's leaders. At the center
                    of Shaker life was the large, prosperous community of New 
                  Lebanon, New York
               . New 
                        Lebanon
                     was the first planned Shaker settlement, the home of the society's leaders,
                    and the center of their operations.5
            
            With all its success, however, the society only extended as far westward as eastern 
                        New York
                    , and the New 
                        Lebanon
                     ministry, headed by Wright, began to look for ways to expand into the western
                        frontier.6 In his memoirs, Shaker missionary Issachar Bates wrote of 
                  
                     4On the New Light movement and the Turtle Creek congregation see
                            McNe-mar, 
                        
                                    Kentucky
                                 Revival; McNemar, Observations on Church Government, by
                                the Presbytery of 
                                    Springfield
                                , To which is added, the Last Will and Testament of that Reverend Body
                                    (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1807); and "A Short Sketch of the Life
                            of David Spining Comprising his dietetic, his Moral & Religious
                            Experience," MSS 119, Box 2, Folder 13, 
                                Ohio
                             Historical Society Shaker Collection (
                                Ohio
                             Historical Society Library, 
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     ).
                  
                     5For the early history of New 
                                Lebanon
                             and the other eastern communities see Clarke Garrett, Spirit
                                Possession and Popular Religion: From the Camisards to the Shakers (
                                Baltimore
                            , Md., 1987); Stephen J. Stein, The Shaker Experience in America: A
                                History of the United Society of Believers (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1992).
                  
                     6The Society as a whole was governed by an elder, eldress, and
                            ministry located at New 
                        Lebanon, New York
                     . Each individual
                            community—and each family
               
                     the "wonderful accounts in the newspapers, of an
                    extraordinary revival in 
                        Kentucky
                    ." Bates recalled talking about the West with Benjamin Seth Youngs, his
                    frequent missionary partner, and wondering "why the Church did not send messengers with the
                    gospel to those poor souls."7 The society's leaders recognized
                    conditions similar to those in New 
                        England
                     years earlier, when the first great increase of Believers had occurred. Accounts of
                    Methodist and Presbyterian revivals in the West suggested that there were new fertile fields to be
                    harvested.
            John Meacham, Bates, and Youngs were dispatched on an arduous winter journey across 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     into the frontier of 
                  Tennessee,
                            Kentucky
               , and 
                        Ohio
                    . The men made their way west visiting congregations, looking not only for signs of
                    revival but for groups who already believed in the possibility of perfection and were looking for
                    the means by which to achieve it. After making promising contacts in 
                        Kentucky
                    , the three men arrived in 
                        Ohio
                     and were welcomed at the home of Malcolm and Peggy Worley, members of
                    McNemar's congregation. At a Sunday service with the Turtle Creek New Lights, the
                    missionaries read a letter from the eastern ministry. It declared that the strange events occurring
                    in the congregation were "a work of God" that had been preparing the people for
                    their "redemption and salvation." Now, the letter stated, the day had arrived
                    "for Christ to make his Second appearance." This would only happen, however,
                    amidst those who had been reborn into a new spiritual life purified of all sin, and it was the
                    possibility of this new life that the missionaries had come to offer the New Lights of Turtle Creek.
                    Bates recalled that after the letter was read one listener gave thanks to God "that
                    salvation is come! Here goes wife & children, house and lands for the kingdom of heavens
                        sake."8
            
            The first official convert was Malcolm Worley, who "confessed his sins & set
                    out" five days aRer the missionaries' arrival. By the beginning of June, Meacham
                    could report to the eastern ministry that there were forty-five adult converts.9
                    Seven years later Turtle Creek became the Shaker community of Union Village, and its 150 adult
                    members signed the official covenant which brought the group into full membership in the society.
                    During those years, twenty-three Shakers arrived from the East to work as missionaries (including
                    New 
                        Lebanon
                     Center family elder and eldress David Darrow and Ruth Farrington, who became leaders at
                    Turtle Creek), and three more communities were established in 
                        Kentucky
                     and Indiana. A steady supply of capital 
                  within each community—had an elder and eldress; each settlement had trustees
                            and deacons who managed its temporal affairs.
                  
                     7"A Sketch of the Life and Experience of Issachar
                            Bates," p. 50, VIB 18, Western Reserve Historical Society Shaker Manuscript
                            Collection, 
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                      (hereafter WRHS).
                  
                     8
                     Ibid., 59.
                  
                     9John Meacham to the Ministry, June 1, 1805, IVA 66, ibid.
                  
               
                     from the East and the intensive labor of both Old and New
                    Believers helped to build a substantial settlement on the 
                        Ohio
                     frontier. Union Village had a large Center house in which the majority of the
                    membership lived, an elder's house for the leadership, a meetinghouse, several work
                    buildings, a sawmill, and a grist mill.10 The settlement raised a variety of
                    crops and livestock, and its fields, orchards, and buildings were neatly fenced. The Shakers
                    produced most of their own food and met many of their own manufacturing needs, and their mills did a
                    brisk business among nonbelieving neighbors. Visitors remarked on the neatness and apparent
                    prosperity of the community.
            The official journals and correspondence of Turtle Creek make it clear that a Shaker village did not
                    rise effortlessly from the landscape. Each element was the product of intense commitment. The
                    construction of Union Village required enormous physical labor under frontier conditions, where
                    supplies were often inadequate and cash was not always available. The creation of Union Village also
                    took place on a more intimate level, as individuals struggled with the effects of the Shaker gospel
                    on their ties to family, friends, and their new community of Believers. What is most interesting
                    about this internal conflict, however, is that it occurred among Old Believers—many of
                    whom had been Shakers for years if not decades—as well as among the newest converts.
            Stories of new converts' sacrifices are familiar to those who study the Shakers. At Turtle
                    Creek the Worley family shared their modest frame farmhouse with the first two groups of eastern
                    missionaries—six additional people eating and sleeping in the small
                    building—and allowed it to be used as the center of the new community. David Spinning
                    came from a family that had settled in the area years earlier, and he farmed acres given to him by
                    his father.11 For months David was the only convert among his "strongly
                    opposed" family members. His father demanded payment for the farmland; his wife was left
                    alone for weeks at a time with a baby and the family's crops spoiling in the fields as
                    David traveled on missionary trips for the Shakers. Within the year Spinning's wife and
                    brother also became converts, but, as was so often true, many other family members were left behind.
            Most of the New Light converts, however, were too intoxicated with the Shaker message to care about
                    the opposition of spouses, 
                  
                     10A letter of March 1806 indicates that in the first year in 
                                Ohio
                             the Turtle Creek Shakers spent $2,500 of eastern money with
                            $300 remaining cash; David Darrow and Meacham to the Deacon, March 19, 1806, ibid. For the first three years of the settlement, a steady flow of money
                            and supplies moved from east to west; after the national trade embargo in December 1807
                            eastern contributions were substantially reduced. As Shaker villages grew, members were
                            divided into smaller geographic clusters or "families," most often
                            designated by where they settled on the overall Shaker property, hence Center, North, South,
                            East, and West were common family designations.
                  
                     11"Short Sketch of the Life of David Spining [sic]," 9ff.
               
                    
                    
                  WORLEY HOUSE
                  Hazel 
                                Spencer
                             Phillips, Shaker Architecture, 
                                    Warren County
                                , 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (1971)
                parents, or neighbors. As McNemar wrote just a few months after his own conversion, 
                        For upwards of fifteen years my soul has been on the wheel forming into union with professed
                            followers of the Lamb; but never did I find my mate till I found the spirit from New 
                                Lebanon
                            ….You have been more concealed from us than anny other sosiety of
                            people upon earth yet our sence and understanding in the things of God have been of all
                            others the most alike.12
                  
                     Anxious relatives visited or wrote letters to the newly converted. Abner Bonnell received a
                    letter from his sister, Hannah Bowers, who was concerned that her brother had deserted his family
                    and was being "carried about with every wind of doctrine." In closing her letter,
                    she entreated Bonnell to "answer as soon as possible do not leave me in this state of
                    anxiety about you."13 Bonnell reassured his sister that "I
                    have not left my family nor ceased to provide for them either in things temporal or spiritual, nor
                    am I conscious of any failure in my duty 
                  
                     12Richard McNemar to the Society of New 
                                Lebanon
                            , September 25, 1805, IVA 66, WRHS. Spelling and punctuation, highly variant but
                            understandable, are reproduced from the originals without the use of sic.
                  
                  
                     13Hannah Bowers to Abner Bonnell, February 1806, in "Letters
                            from 
                                Ohio
                            " bound book, ibid.
                  
               
                     either as a husband or a father. I love Nancy & the
                    children I love you & all my friends & can say in the fear of God, I hate nothing
                    but Sin." Bonnell said that he had learned from the Shakers that "there is no
                    other way of salvation but to come out & be separate from the spirit & ways of the
                    world & put away all our sins and follow Christ in the regeneration & be righteous
                    even as he is righteous."14
            
            Until the first large-scale communal dwelling was completed in 1812, most Young Believers lived in
                    their own cabins and were thus spread out across many miles of frontier farmland. Anxious for
                    contact with their new spiritual leaders and advisers, converts often traveled considerable
                    distances to be with Old Believers at Turtle Creek. When the first eastern sisters arrived in 
                        Ohio
                     in June 1806, their appearance at a sabbath meeting produced tears and expressions of
                    joy. Anna Cole, who went west in 1807, wrote of being at Turtle Creek for only a few weeks but
                    already having "some opportunity" to meet "20 or 30 Woung Believers] here
                    at a time." She told her eastern sisters that there had been "but one day since we
                    have been here that there was not more or less here from a distance."15
                    Ruth Farrington wrote to Lucy Wright that "when we are not in public meeting we are in
                    private labors continually. And we tend a meeting with them every week in the afternoon and
                    sometimes evening meetings, and we have a great many young Believers that comes to see us of
                    necessity, especially them that comes from a distance for they have need to be with us in order to
                    gather strength."16
            
            Inspired by their enthusiasm for the Shaker gospel, the western converts brought their own ecstatic
                    worship practices into Shaker meetings; they also brought a repertoire of music from the revivals
                    and a tradition of creating new songs from popular tunes.17 Along with their
                    contributions to worship, the Young Believers created a new understanding of the society's
                    history. One of the places this new perspective began to appear was in ballads composed by converts.
                    John Wallace, after a visit to New 
                        Lebanon
                    , put his thoughts about the East and West into a ballad titled "We've
                    seen some old believers." The first sixteen verses of the song describe the eastern
                    community as a heaven on earth, while the last two draw a comparison between East and West, old and
                    new. Having declared in verse seventeen that 
                  
                     14Abner Bonnell to Hannah Bowers, [1806], in "Letters from 
                                Ohio
                            ," ibid.
                  
                  
                     15Susanna Cole to New 
                                Lebanon
                            , September 7, 1807, IVA 67, ibid.
                  
                  
                     16Ruth Farrington et al. to Lucy Wright, August 16,
                            1806, IYA 66, ibid. Western converts' involvement in the
                            community can be traced in entries in the Church Family Journal, VB 230, ibid., and the Journal of Peter Pease, Reel 16, No. 232, Shaker Collection (Library of
                            Congress, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.).
                  
                     17At the beginning of the nineteenth century worship in eastern Shaker
                            communities was ordered and, when compared with the ecstatic practices of Ann Lee's
                            lifetime, sedate. Most tunes used during worship were short wordless pieces called laboring
                            songs and solemn songs. See Daniel W. Patterson, The Shaker Spiritual (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1979), 62-130. For a discussion of worship and music as part of Joseph
                            Meacham's ordering of the Society see Stein, Shaker Experience in
                                America, 41-49.
               
                     "The east affords the visiod Our work is in the
                    west," in his final verse Wallace explicitly proclaimed the West as the future of Shaker
                    work. 
                        They did their work in season Where they reciev'd the call
                        Nor slack'd till they had finished Their part of Zion wall
                        Our work is here before us That we are call'd to do
                        Then let us all be faithful And we'll have Zion too18
                  
                    
                
            Worley used ritual to express a similar understanding of western Shaker history. At worship one day
                    in early January 1807, he requested that all the Believers be allowed to commemorate the anniversary
                    of the arrival of the first three missionaries to the West and "devote the day to the Lord
                    in remembrance of his great goodness to them as a people." Worley gave a speech on the
                    anniversary day, reminding the Young Believers "of the distinguishing goodness of God to
                    them in sending that gospel of salvation which they had so anxiously waited & prayed
                    for" and then thanking each one of the Old Shakers individually for their "pains
                    & labours" and for bringing "the way & meanes of life &
                        peace."19
            
            Convert Richard McNemar was probably the greatest contributor to a new view of the West's
                    role in the history of the society. In his book 
                  
                            Kentucky
                         Revival, published in 1807, he created a chronology that explained eastern
                    Shaker history as the first chapter of a larger story. He presented the history of the western
                    societies, built on the revivals, as a second, and even greater, chapter. In a letter that
                    accompanied a copy of the work, McNemar informed eastern Shakers that the book's audience
                    (frontier revival converts who had not yet accepted the Shaker gospel) was "singular from
                    all others on the face of the earth" because they had experienced the "very
                    extraordinary & singular work of God" that began with the revivals. Now that
                    audience needed only to be informed of the divinely intended outcome of the work, i.e., the
                    establishment in the West of the Shaker gospel. McNemar was not sure that the eastern Shakers could
                    fully understand the western situation, but if the book's contents did "remain
                    forever obsecure to the citizens of mount Zion who have never groaned like us under the Babylonish
                    captivity it can be to them no material disadvantage." In imagining western history as not
                    only distinct from but, in ways, more significant than eastern history, McNemar epitomized the
                    optimism of the Young Believers and influenced later western theological writings.20
            
            
               
                  18For the text of Wallace's hymn see Patterson, Shaker Spiritual, 144-46.
               
                  19[Western ministry] to Wright, January 13, 1807, IVA 67, WRHS.
               
                  20Richard McNemar to the New 
                            Lebanon
                         Ministry, September 13, 1807, ibid.
               
            
            
            
               
                  KENTUCKY REVIVAL NEWSPAPER ANNOUNCEMENT 
                            Cincinnati
                        
                        Liberty Hall, September 29, 1807
            
            
            As the Young Believers were finding their way into the Shaker family and defining their place within
                    the community, many of the Old Believers were struggling to readjust to life on the frontier. Shaker
                    sisters arrived from the East a year after the first missionaries, but the conditions they found
                    were still rudimentary. The brothers were living with the Worleys, but for the women they prepared a
                    "tollerable" log cabin, which turned out to be anything but tolerable. The floor
                    consisted of wooden boards that had simply been laid down over the dirt; the cabin walls were
                    "very full of large cracks"; and the single window had two of its six panes
                    broken. Although most of the light in the cabin came through the cracks in the walls, so did the
                    rain, which came in "by streams through every direction." The sisters cooked in a
                    "little hut," and from there they fed not only all of the Old Believers but also
                    the workmen who were building the ministry's new house and the hands who were hired to help
                    with harvesting. They did the laundry outside under "a shelter of bushes" and
                    mended clothes for the brothers. The sisters declared to their former family in the East that
                    "we have not had one day of rest since we left you. We work very hard indeed. We used to
                    think that we knew what hardship was, and truly we did, but we knew nothing about it to what we know
                        now."21
            
            Rachel Johnson, who arrived in 1807, was similarly taken aback by frontier conditions, including the
                    lack of order in everyday life and the lack of separation between Young Believers and the most
                    senior Shakers. The first news she related in a letter to two sisters at New 
                        Lebanon
                     was about Turtle Creek's communal meals. 
                        [W]e have three and four and more settings to eat we all mix up together young believer and
                            old—Elder David Eld John and Eldrs Ruth as often eat at the second and third
                            setting as any way—with a parcel of young believers—and the rest of us
                            two some times to one setting—and some times to another—as we can get
                            a chance.22
                  
                     Converts not only altered the ways in which eastern Shakers experienced the spaces of their
                    everyday lives, the Young Believers also made it appear, to even the most seasoned missionary, that
                    there were too few hours in a day. Meacham described the Old Believers' workload to Wright.
                        
                        We think we may all find a sufficiency of employment—we are surrounded with
                            labours—almost continually thronged with company from a distance—much
                            visiting to do from place to place—much journeyings called upon by the weak on
                            every side to help them—many that are weak to lug on our backs—many
                            difficulties to settle among them—some that have set out turning back, others
                            coming in more than sufficient to fill their places—Their number gradually
                            increases and our labours as much.23
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  21Ruth Farrington et al. to the Sisters, August 16,
                        1806, IVA 66, ibid.
               
               
                  22Rachel Johnson to Sisters Deborah and Susanna, September 12,1807, IVA
                        67, ibid. In the developed eastern communities, the elders and eldresses
                        lived, ate, and often worked in separate quarters, and new converts were usually housed in their
                        own "gathering" family.
               
                  23Meacham and Darrow to Wright, September 13, 1807, ibid.
               
            
            
            The workload, frontier conditions, the demands of so many new converts, the great distance from their
                    family members in the East, all seem to have combined to produce a strong sense of isolation among
                    the Old Believers at Turtle Creek. Letters to the East rarely expressed emotion in exact words, but
                    the themes presented in formal Shaker phrases are unmistakable. The imagery used was biblical: the
                    missionaries were in exile in a harsh and dangerous wilderness and the East was Canaan, a peaceful
                    land of plenty; the Old Believers were like lost sheep in need of the care of their brothers and
                    sisters at New 
                        Lebanon
                    . Often the metaphors were mixed: in one 1806 letter Darrow and Meacham described
                    themselves and their brothers and sisters as "the little flock which you, by the gift of
                    God, have sent out into the wilderness." A letter written two months later to thank the New 
                        Lebanon
                     deacons for supplies depicted frontier 
                        Ohio
                     as "a far distant, & remote part of the earth, even to the utmost
                    & westermost border of all that by false professors is called Christendom, closely bordering
                    on the Gentiles" and a "situation far from the peaceful abodes, &
                    blessings of plenty which we had left." The provisions, mostly clothing and household and
                    farming supplies, were described in the letter as 
                        silver, and gold; & apparel in abundance, made aRer the order of the kings children,
                            scented with the smell of 
                                Lebanon
                            —Horses & cariages, heavily laden with the good things of
                            Canaan.
                     Darrow continued the theme in another letter, saying that the brothers and sisters felt
                    "like poor children in a distant land from their parents, surrounded by a wicked ungodly
                    gainsaying people."24
            
            Some of the Old Believers carried the imagery to its inevitable conclusion: the exiles would, after
                    some period of time, end their journey in the wilderness and find peace in the promised land. When
                    Farrington and her sisters wrote to Wright in August 1806, they claimed not to be discouraged, yet
                    the predominant language of the letter communicates very different emotions. The sisters felt
                    "like poor needy children desiring to be remembered and not forgotten," and they
                    told Wright that 
                        no one knows how it feels to go out of the Church where there is so much order and go into
                            such a distant land where there is so much evil and so little good but those that have
                            experienced it.
                     One of their last comments was that they recalled "before we came from home that
                    five years was mentioned, and we do not expect to forget it."25 The
                    correspondence of the Old Believers during these first 
                  
                     24Darrow and Meacham to the Elders and Brethren, June 5,1806, IVA 66,
                                ibid.; Darrow and the Brethren to the New 
                                Lebanon
                             Deacons, August 18, 1806, and Darrow to the Deacon at New 
                                Lebanon
                            , November 9,1806, Reel 18, No. 245, Shaker Collection.
                  
                     25Farrington et al. to Wright, August 16, 1806, IVA
                            66, ibid.
                  
               
                     years in the West is clear: when they thought and wrote about
                    "home" they meant, not the new community in 
                        Ohio
                    , but New 
                        Lebanon
                    .
            Loneliness also affected the Old Believers' relations with the western converts. After a
                    long illness in the summer of 1807, Farrington wrote to Wright, begging "Mother not to
                    forget me" and telling Wright "how much I long to see her."26 The eldress reported that she was "reconsiled to the gift of God"
                    that had brought her to Turtle Creek and "to that work that I am called to."
                    Farrington's words make clear the distinction between her relationships with fellow Old
                    Believers and with converts: "I feel union to my Elders & Brethren &
                    Sisters I love them all[.] I feel a measure of gift to the young beleavers here."27 Samuel Turner was eloquent when he described the Old Believers gathering to
                    hear a letter from the East read out loud. 
                        We feel thankful for that unspeakable goodness which Mother from time to time ministers unto
                            us Truly when we come together and set down to hear the letters which Mother & those
                            that are with her sends us…it seems more than we can bare.28
                  
                    
                
            The correspondence of the Old Believers shows that they felt torn between their responsibilities in
                    the West and their ties to the East. Cole felt "poor & kneedy" but
                    "reconciled to the cross not looking to please myself." Turner recalled that his
                    departure from the East was "a very Sound cross to think of parting with my beloved Mother
                    and all my loving Brethren and Sisters not knowing that I ever should see any of their faces any
                    more in the body" and spoke of meetings amongst the Old Believers when "with
                    broken harts, we often remember Zion." The missionaries balanced their personal desire to
                    see their friends in the East with their duty to their converts in the West and found, like Cole,
                    that they could live "reconciled to the cross." Meacham expressed the
                    contradictory impulses and their resolution. 
                        Tho we have many labors and trials to pass through we feel no cause to complain, nay on the
                            contrary we have the greatest cause to be thankful to you that we have the 
                        
                           26"Mother" language is complex throughout
                                    Shaker history. Ann Lee, the sect's founder, was usually referred to as
                                    Mother Ann; in later Shaker theology, Mother also referred to Holy Mother Wisdom, a
                                    part of the divinity. Some of the earliest Shaker leaders were also referred to as
                                    mother and father, although the practice was discouraged. Wright, an influential and
                                    beloved figure in the early nineteenth century, was commonly called Mother Lucy.
                                    See, for example, Jean Humez, "'Ye Are My Epistles': The
                                    Construction of Ann Lee Imagery in Early Shaker Sacred Literature," Journal of Feminist Studies in Religion, VIII (Spring 1992),
                                    83-103; Humez, ed., Mother's First-Born Daughters: Early
                                        Shaker Writings on Women and Religion (
                                        Bloomington
                                    , Ind., 1993), 64-77; Suzanne Thurman, "'Dearly Loved
                                    Mother Eunice': Gender, Motherhood, and Shaker Spirituality," Church History, LXVI (Winter 19971, 750-61.
                        
                           27To be in "union" was the ideal Shaker
                                    state. Each individual was in union with fellow Believers, in union (through
                                    obedience) to the leadership, and, through the union to the body of Believers, in
                                    union with Christ. See Bakken, "Putting the Shakers ‘In
                                    Place’," 281-86.
                        
                           28Farrington to Wright, September [?], 1807, IVA 67, WRHS;
                                    Samuel Turner to the Elders, Brothers, and Sisters, September 14, 1807, ibid.
                        
                     
                             privilege to spend and to be spent in such a cause and
                            that we have been protected & strengthened and suported in it and that our labors
                            have been thus far blessed and made to become fruitful.… Where there is much
                            given there is much required?29
                  
                    
                
            The experiences and emotions of the Old Believers became increasingly complicated as the years in the
                    West wore on. Together with the strong feelings of homesickness for the East, there also appeared in
                    the correspondence by 1808 a sense that the West might be special because of its isolation and the
                    level of persecution the Believers were undergoing on the frontier. The development of a systematic
                    theology that came from the West, not from the East, seemed to give the Old Believers a new
                    perspective on their experiences. The enthusiasm and sense of history among the Young Believers may
                    also have affected the Old Believers, as both came to share, at least to some extent, the idea that
                    the West had a new role to play in the history of salvation. Young and Old Believers alike saw
                    themselves as part of a second opening of the gospel that was clearer and deeper than the first. In
                    December 1808, when the western ministry sent a copy of the Testimony of
                        Christ's Second Appearing to Wright and the eastern ministry, they accompanied the
                    book with a long letter warning that those who had never made "a full survey of the
                    darkness of this world" or undertaken "a minute investigation of all those false
                    ideas & mistaken notions" abroad in the world might not be able to understand fully
                    the work they were about to read. This optimistic hubris was not long-lived. A lengthy process of
                    negotiations with eastern leaders over details of the work combined with events in the West hm 1809
                    onward soon rendered the Old Believers at Turtle Creek more guarded than before about their role in
                    the history of the gospel.30
            
            By 1810 the process of gathering the western communities into full gospel order had begun, and the
                    covenant was signed at Union Village in January 1812. Shortly thereafter, Darrow sent a long, frank
                    letter to Richard Spiers, a New 
                        Lebanon
                     deacon, who was a frequent correspondent. The letter, after news of business and
                    agricultural matters, assessed the Young Believers who had just come into full Shaker union.
                    "We have," Darrow wrote, "a goodly number of good believers whose faith
                    and obedience is as firm as a rock." Every one of them would "freely lay down
                    their lives" for their leaders and 
                  
                     29Cole to New 
                                Lebanon
                            , September 7, 1807, ibid.; Turner to the Elders, Brothers,
                            and Sisters, September 14, 1807, ibid.; Meacham and Darrow to Wright,
                            September 13, 1807, ibid.
                  
                  
                     30Mother's Children to Wright and the Ministry, December 28,
                            1808, IVA 67, WRHS. The Testimony was the first large-scale published work
                            of the Society's theology; on its importance see Stein, Shaker
                                Experience in America, 68-73. The book failed, however, to bring in the large
                            number of converts the western Shakers had expected. Escalating opposition, especially
                            during 1810, also decreased missionary expectations; see, for example, Benjamin Seth Youngs,
                            "Transactions of the 
                                Ohio
                             Mob—called in the public papers ‘An Expedition against
                            the Shakers,’" manuscript, VB 235, WRHS.
               
                    
                    
                  CENTER HOUSE
                  Hazel 
                                Spencer
                             Phillips, Shaker Architecture, 
                                    Warren County
                                , 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (1971)
                for the sake of the gospel, "for which we love them dearly." But to this
                    favorable report, he added, 
                        I expect if thee was here they would feel very dirty and nasty to thee—But O
                            consider the state they were in when we found them, and how we had to go down to the bottom
                            of misery and take them by the hand and lead them out; and some we have to carry on our
                            backs and get along as well as we could.
                     The Old Believers were, Darrow lamented, "at so great a distance from the Church,
                    and had to travel the old path over again—how do you think it makes us feel?"31
            
            In one sense Darrow's criticisms are surprising, since many of the Young Believers had
                    confessed their sins nearly seven years before. Some early converts, such as McNemar and Matthew 
                        Houston
                    , had been indispensable mission workers, and others had been living with the Old
                    Believers since 1807. Two things probably prompted the language. By 1810 all the western Believers,
                    both Young and Old, were being evaluated by the elder and eldress of each community as the
                    settlements were prepared for full union.32 Darrow and Farrington had long
                    experience within the society and apparently had decided the time had come for frank evaluation of
                    the Believers' capabilities. 
                  
                     31Darrow to Richard Spier, January, 1812, IVA 68, ibid.
                  
                  
                     32Only after the covenant signing in 1812 were any Young Believers
                            given official positions of authority in the community. For example, John Wallace and Nathan
                            Sharp were designated as deacons, to work alongside Old Believer Peter Pease, and Amos
                            Valentine was given leadership of the Youth Family.
               
                     Gathering into full, covenanted union was the most important
                    step the converts would take; assuming leadership of a community was the greatest challenge the Old
                    Believers would face. The evaluations of both Old and Young Believers that appear in the
                    correspondence are striking in contrast to the previously measured language, but candor was dictated
                    by circumstance.
            The other reason may have been more personal: by 1812 the pressures on Darrow and Farrington, as on
                    all the western leadership, had become intense. Growth had stretched resources thin; there were too
                    few Old Believers to meet the needs of all the converts, and, as communities prepared to sign
                    covenants, the shortage seemed all the more apparent. Since the summer of 1810 opposition to the
                    Shakers had grown in the Turtle Creek area, not only in the number of critics but also in the
                    severity of their words and actions. And finally, there was the increasing certainty of a war that
                    posed serious threats to the peace and well-being of settlements in both 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana. Darrow may very well have felt exhausted at the thought of starting all
                    over again: he had already signed one covenant and lived through the years of building and
                    sacrifice, and now he was in the midst of the process again, with the prospect of ending his life in
                    the West.
            Even in this context the language remains striking. By 1812 it was clear that after six years of
                    living, working, and worshiping together, the Old Believers still drew a line between themselves and
                    the western converts. No matter how spiritually mature, how trusted, or how essential the Westerners
                    were, they remained Young Believers. Although the two groups were tied together in the western
                    mission, the Old Believers still felt strong ties to their former home in the East; the themes of
                    exile and loneliness remained even after 1810. The Old Believers never considered abandoning their
                    call to the West, but privately to their brothers and sisters in the East, they continued to
                    describe themselves as sheep lost in a wilderness and as people quite openly in need of support and
                    consolation.
            Eliab Harlow of New 
                        Lebanon
                     noted this during his visit to Turtle Creek in the summer of 1810. When Harlow arrived
                    he found a community that needed his services as a physician, a "goodly number of young
                    believers" who seemed "zealous to labour for the gift of God," and a
                    group of Old Believers who needed the comfort and contact that a visitor from the East provided.
                    Harlow often heard that those who were still in New 
                        Lebanon
                     "don't know what they are, nor how far they have traveled from the
                    world, living as it were in heaven, and not having an opportunity to know what is in the
                        world."33
            
            There were other voices which echoed Darrow's feelings in the months after the covenant was
                    signed. Hortence Goodrich confessed to Wright how recent trials and persecutions had tested her
                    faith. 
                  
                     33Eliab Harlow to New 
                                Lebanon
                             Church Family, June 26, 1810, IVA 68, WRHS.
               
                     She declared her intention to remain obedient and in union but
                    closed with a plaintive petition: 
                        I think of Mother every day I live—and some times I dream of seeing her and it
                            makes me feel a heap better for a long time & if Mother will be so kind as to own me
                            as one of her little children I will labour to be right good and patient.34
                  
                    
                
            The letters of the Old Believers clearly reveal their continuing emotional ties to the East and the
                    differing ways in which they defmed their former and new homes. The Old Believers saw the East as a
                    lost promised land and the West as a wilderness, which was full of promise but also fraught with
                    danger and, in some way, always less than what they had come from. The Young Believers, in contrast,
                    agreed that the East was a kind of Canaan, but they thought that the gospel's work had
                    already been done there and that the future belonged to the wilderness of the West. Why did people
                    who were part of the same communal religious society and who shared so many common experiences over
                    a period of years think so differently about the place in which they lived?
            The work of cultural geographer Yi-Fu Tuan centers on the human experience of place and the idea that
                    understanding a person's experience of the places that he or she inhabits is an important
                    way of understanding the person. Tuan argues that one strong experience of place is
                    "attachment to the homeland," which often results from the most basic human
                    experiences of "familiarity and ease … the assurance of nurture and security
                    … the memory of sounds and smells, of communal activities and homely pleasures
                    accumulated over time." These "quiet attachments" are so deep that they
                    barely exist on a conscious level. Building on Tuan's work, other scholars have studied the
                    effects of migration on people and their sense of place. In one study that may be useful in
                    understanding the Old Believers, Clarence Mondale considers what he calls
                    "place-on-the-move," that is, what happens to an individual when the sense of
                    place is disrupted by migration. Mondale discovers that "clustering … staying in
                    touch with one's own, is central to the migration experience." Clustering means
                    that a migrant will try to connect with "what is most basic to self-orientation, what is
                    most immediately familiar." Since the Old Believers had, through their many years of
                    communal living at New 
                        Lebanon
                    , developed a strong "quiet attachment" to the people and the place,
                    it is understandable that their reaction to migration was to cluster—to stay in touch, in
                    every way possible, with the place that was "most basic" to their
                        self-understanding.35
            
            
               
                  34Hortence Goodrich to Wright, April 25, 1812, ibid.;
                        Darrow to Spier, November 28, 1812, ibid.
               
               
                  35Yi-Fu Tuan, Space and Place: The Perspective of
                        Experience (
                            Minneapolis
                        , Minn., 1981), chap. 11, p. 159; Clarence Mondale, "Place-on-the-Move:
                        Space and Place for the Migrant," in Mapping American Culture, eds. 
                            Wayne
                            Franklin
                         and Michael Steiner (
                            Iowa
                         City, 
                            Iowa
                        , 19931, 53-88.
            
            
            Clustering, however, is a symptom of the early years of migration and would not explain why the Old
                    Believers' attachment to the East remained so strong for a decade. As Mondale points out, a
                    migrant's identity "is necessarily redefined in the new place." This was
                    evident in the lives of the Old Believers as they took converts into the first western family,
                    worked and worshiped with them, praised their missionary efforts, and encouraged some of them to
                    take leadership roles within the society. How then does one explain Darrow's words of 1812
                    or Goodrich's plaint to Wright?36
            
            The high degree of ambivalence displayed by the Old Believers is in part related to their specific
                    history, including the growing opposition to the community from non-Shakers, who frequently targeted
                    the "outsiders" hm the East more than the western converts; the stresses of
                    gathering five new communities with limited financial and human resources; and the crises
                    precipitated by the War of 1812. But there was another factor that operated from the beginning of
                    the settlement through and beyond 1815: the prospect that many of the Old Believers would eventually
                    return to the East. Although Darrow and Farrington must have reconciled themselves early to living
                    out their lives in the West, the possibility always existed that other missionaries would serve a
                    term of duty and then return to New 
                        Lebanon
                    . The "resignation" common to migrants who know they will never return
                    home was not shared by many of the Old Believers. Indeed, Mondale's concept of the
                    "stretched geography" of people with two homes seems to describe the Old
                    Believers, who lived "stretched" between New 
                        Lebanon
                     and Union Village.37
            
            The Young Believers' perceptions of the Turtle Creek settlement had always been different.
                    Most of the converts who signed the 1812 covenant had lived in and around the Turtle Creek area when
                    the Shakers arrived; the rest had lived in other parts of south-central 
                        Ohio
                    . Thus the converts were already home. Although they all eventually moved into communal
                    dwelling spaces, and many broke from family members, spouses, and children, the Young Believers were
                    already attached to Turtle Creek. Whether old or recent migrants, they had settled onto farmlands
                    with their families, built cabins, plowed fields, and worked crops. Rather than being stretched
                    between two places, they were committed to the West and saw the future of the Shaker gospel from a
                    different perspective than the Old Believers.
            
               
                        Wayne
                        Franklin
                     argues that "it is in our stories that we locate places most powerfully, and
                    in so locating them gauge and assess their meaning." Creating stories about a place, in
                    other words, helps 
                  
                     36Mondale, "Place-on-the-Move," 69-77.
                  
                     37
                     Ibid., 73-74, 79. Of the missionaries who came
                            west only six (Prudence Farrington, Ruth Darrow, Hortence Goodrich, Ruth Farrington, David
                            Darrow, and Molly Goodrich) died there; the others, over the course of many years, returned
                            to the East.
               
                     human beings to construct meanings that are associated with
                    that place. 
                        Kent
                     Ryden expresses the same idea, writing that words "map out the contours of
                    that invisible landscape of meaning." A sense of place, according to Ryden,
                    "achieves its clearest articulation through narrative."38
            
            It is also important to note that narratives are formed over time, as people live in and come to know
                    a particular place. If, as Ryden argues, "places are fusions of experience, landscape, and
                    location … [and] are necessarily bound up with time and memory," then it follows
                    that Young and Old Believers would have had different understandings of home. When the Union Village
                    covenant was signed in 1812, converts and eastern missionaries had shared a location, and a way of
                    life, worship, and work for seven years. Prior to the spring of 1806, however, the two groups had
                    led different lives in different places. The Old Believers had acquired their fundamental
                    understandings of themselves as Shakers in New 
                        Lebanon
                    ; their identity was tied to that place. The experiences of conversion and assimilation
                    for Western converts, in contrast, were "bound up" with their lives at Turtle
                    Creek. Their stories of place, and so in a fundamental way their experiences of place, were
                        different.39
            
            The example of Union Village suggests that the formation of new family structures among the Shakers
                    was a long and complicated process. Families could not be constructed out of religious conviction
                    alone or even out of the will and dedication that the Believers brought to the task. Old Believers
                    brought with them family experiences, memories of place, and feelings for their fellow Shakers and
                    their former communities in the East that were not erased by time or distance. In a sense, the
                    eastern Shakers had constructed their families all too well. Leaving the security of the East was a
                    traumatic event for those who dedicated their lives to the western mission. Even with the enthusiasm
                    and commitment of the western converts and the experiences and dedication of the eastern
                    missionaries, constructing a single family out of the two disparate groups of Young and Old
                    Believers was a challenge that was never, it seems, fully met.
            
               
                  38
                  
                            Wayne
                            Franklin
                        , "Foreword," in Kent C. Ryden, Mapping the Invisible
                            Landscape: Folklore, Writing, and the Sense of Place (
                            Iowa
                         City, 
                            Iowa
                        , 19931, xi.
               
                  39Ryden, ibid., xiv, 38-39.
            
         
         
         
            Letters from Mudlavia: "… it is just very hard to get well"
            Sharlene Voogd Cochrane*
            
            
                    
                        
                            You must go to Niagara for 
                                    Niagara Falls
                                , to the Yellowstone for the Grand Geyser, and to Kramer, Indiana, for the
                                Mudlavia Mud Cure and Lithia Water Baths.
                            1
                        
                    
                
            In 1908, at the age of sixty-two, Charles J. Stockdale undertook what some thought was an extreme
                    remedy for his increasingly painful rheumatism. Having suffered for years, he decided to try the mud
                    cure, a process that required him to be packed in hot mud, then bathed in hot water once a day for
                    several days. He left his wife and their seven children on the family farm near Aplington in north
                    central 
                        Iowa
                     and traveled to Kramer, Indiana, and the Mudlavia Mud Cure and Lithia Water Baths.
            When Stockdale traveled to Kramer, he joined thousands of men and women who patronized mud and water
                    baths and mineral springs to improve their health. Hot springs, mineral baths, and health spas could
                    be found throughout the 
                        United States
                    ; among the most famous were such elaborate sites as Hot Springs, 
                        Arkansas
                    , and 
                  Saratoga Springs, New York
               . When Charles made his visit the big
                    eastern resorts were in their heyday, and the spas in many western and southern states were at their
                    apex. In 1910, Hot Springs alone had more visitors than all of the other national parks together.
                    The sale of bottled mineral-springs water reached over fifty-two million gallons; nationally, 695
                    springs reported sales of mineral water.2
            
            
               
                        Iowa
                    , like many other midwestern states, had only a few springs that developed hotels or
                    recreational facilities and a few more that bottled mineral water for sale. These sites were known
                    mostly to a local clientele and did not become widely popular. Indiana, by contrast, had two of the
                    larger resort springs in the country, at French Lick and West Baden, as well as six other resort
                    sites, with "accom- 
                  
                     * Sharlene Voogd Cochrane is associate professor of
                            interdisciplinary studies at Lesley College, 
                        Cambridge, Massachusetts
                     . Her great-grandfather was C. J. Stockdale.
                  
                     1A. B. Schanz, ed., The Mudlavia Resort Book
                            (Kramer, Ind., 1901), 23.
                  
                     2
                     
                                Cleveland
                             Amory, The Last Resorts (1948; 
                                New York
                            , 1952), 3-6; U. S. Geological Survey, Mineral Resources of the 
                                    United States
                                : 1908, 758, 759, 770. In 1910, Hot Springs had 120,000 visitors, while
                            Yellowstone, Yosemite, and Platt (Sulphur Springs) together had 58,000. The author thanks
                            Wilson Hess for making this information available; U. S. Congress, Senate Report, 64 Cong., 1 Sess., 1915-1916, S. Doc. 662.
               
                     modations for more than 4,000 people." Fifteen springs
                    sold mineral water, twice as many as in 
                        Iowa
                    .3
            
            Mudlavia became well known for its unique "mud bath and lithia water spring." The
                    discovery of the health powers of the springs was almost legendary among nearby residents. Sam
                    Story, a local farmer with a serious case of arthritis, was digging for several days in wet mud to
                    drain a field. He noticed as he dug and drank the nearby water that his symptoms were lessening.
                    Within days he was cured. When his neighbors, the Camerons, heard the story they purchased the land
                    and then leased it to H. L. Kramer who built a huge hotel and baths. Kramer sent descriptive
                    brochures throughout the 
                        United States
                     encouraging people to take the train to this "beautiful, unique"
                    site. Perhaps convinced by the advertising or attracted to the mud as a more likely cure than the
                    bottled mineral water available in his own state, Stockdale boarded the train in early October for
                    the first leg of his journey.4
            
            Mudlavia was tucked away in a quiet valley near Attica, a village that had boomed when the 
                        Wabash
                     and 
                        Erie
                     canal arrived in 1847 on its way to the Ohio River. Its success,
                    however, was shortlived, since nearby Lafayette became the main railroad terminus, and the railroad
                    quickly replaced canals as the main form of transportation for farmers and commercial travelers
                    across the state. The railroad passed through Attica, and the station was a lively place when the
                    trains from 
                        Chicago
                     and beyond unloaded their Mudlavia-bound passengers. Nearby Williamsport, on the
                        Wabash River, served as a debarking point for visitors arriving from the
                    south. Horses and buggies, and later cars, carried visitors to the mudbaths.5
            
            The Mudlavia Hotel, nestled on a parcel of low-lying grassy farmland, was surrounded by hilly, wooded
                    terrain. The main building, atop a rise, was the grandest structure for miles. Open land stretched
                    before it, space for tennis courts, a golf course, and buggy rides. When Stockdale arrived in Attica
                    after two days of train trav- 
                  
                     3A general guide to mineral springs in Indiana, and West Baden and
                            Mudlavia in particular, can be found in Robert M. Taylor, Jr., "Soaking, Sluicing,
                            and Stewing in Hoosier Mineral Waters," Traces of Zndiana and
                                Midwestern History, IV (Winter 1992), 4-9; Jeanette Vanausdall,
                            "'A Miracle of Rare Device': Images of the West Baden Springs
                            Hotel," ibid., 10-19; Jane Nolan and Linda Weintraut,
                            "The Right Water, the Right Mud and the Right Place: The Story Behind
                            Mudlavia," ibid., 20-27.
                  
                     4U. S. Geological Survey, Mineral Resources: 1908,
                            770; William Edward Fitch, Mineral Waters of the 
                                    United States
                                 and American Spas (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1927), 361-62. For a recent study of water cures in general and their
                            development in 
                                Texas
                             see Janet Mace Valenza, Taking the Waters in 
                                    Texas
                                
                      (Austin, Tex., 2000).
                  
                     5Thomas A. Clifton, ed., Past and Present of 
                                    Fountain
                                 and 
                                    Warren
                                 Counties, Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 19131, 130, 144-45; Standard Atlas of 
                                    Warren County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 19041, 19; A History of 
                                    Warren County
                                , Indiana (
                                Williamsport
                            , Ind., 19661, 1-5, 157-59. The author thanks Chris 
                                Brown
                            , librarian at the 
                                Williamsport
                            -
                                Washington
                             Township Public Library, for helping to locate the Mudlavia site as well as
                            relevant county resources.
               
                     el, he may have been remembering another trip he took for
                    health reasons much earlier in his life. Rheumatism was his second serious health condition. As a
                    young man, Stockdale had "quick consumption [probably tuberculosis]. … and could
                    hardly walk down the street without stopping to rest." When he was about sixteen,
                    Stock-dale left 
                        Iowa
                     and headed west in the hope of increasing his strength. Family stones tell of his
                    riding with wagon trains, fighting Indians, and "pulling timber" in 
                        Montana
                    . After two years he returned physically well and with "$1,000 and a
                    pair of oxen."6 He claimed his consumption was cured by these journeys,
                    while his rheumatism developed from sleeping on the hard 
                        Montana
                     ground. The rheumatism caused him pain throughout the remainder of his life.
            Stockdale soon began to buy land and raise cattle. He married Lydia Smith in 1871 and took over his
                    family's farm. Children came soon after, seven in all. Lydia also had consumption and
                    during the time they were married she lived for two years in 
                        Colorado
                     Springs and, later, another two years in 
                        California
                    , hoping to improve. Neither of the trips seemed to help, however, and she died in 1888.
            After two years, Stockdale remarried. His wife, Louise Keller, was twenty-one years his junior and
                    had been a seamstress and nurse for the family. Louise, or Lou, as he called her, also gave birth to
                    seven children, the last in 1907. The following year, Stockdale said good-bye to his family (with
                    children at home, ages one, four, nine, ten, twelve, fifteen, and seventeen) and took the two-day
                    trip, first on the 
                        Illinois
                     Central to 
                        Chicago
                     and then the 
                        Chicago
                     and Eastern 
                        Illinois
                     to Attica, Indiana. A horse-drawn car met the travelers at the station and carried them
                    the six miles to the little village of Kramer and the Mudlavia spa.
            People arrived at the mud baths with great hopes that they would be cured; advertisements and medical
                    testimonials presented an image of enjoyment, rest, and certain health. The reality was somewhat
                    different. Patients waited expectantly for up to three weeks for the effects of the daily treatments
                    to be felt. The uncertainty of success created a high level of drama for the patients, along with
                    anxiety and ohn boredom. Charles Stockdale experienced all of these emotions during the weeks he
                    spent at Mudlavia.
            
                    Arrival in Mudlavia: Week One
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    There is ample accommodation at Mudlavia for two hundred and fifty
                                        guests and the rooms are mostly arranged en suite. … Every room in
                                        the entire hotel has been completely renovated and refirnished where necessary,
                                        so that all conditions for the health, rest or pleasure seeker are everything
                                        that can be desired… as full of comfort as sunshine, cheery
                                        decoration, antique oak and luxurious rugs can make them.
                                    7
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  6Lydia Stockdale, "Stories of Grandpa Stockdale," c.
                        1940, typescript (in the author's possession).
               
                  7Indiana Springs Company, "Mud More Valuable than Gold"
                        (brochure, n.p., 1905).
            
            
            
               MUDLAVIA HOTEL, 1920
               
                  
                            Williamsport
                        -
                            Washington
                         Township Public Library, 
                     Williamsport, Indiana
                  
               
            
            
            Once Stockdale settled in, he wrote almost every day either to his wife or to one of his children.
                    During the first few days, his letters were full of advice, including words of love and
                    encouragement to family members and guidance concerning the day-to-day management of the farm.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        My Dear Wife and Family
                        Well I have just had my baths. … And from now till tomarrow at 1/2 past 8
                                    nothing to do but sit around and eat our regular meals.
                        The weather is just lovely. Yesterday there were lots of Ladies and Gents out on the
                                    porches and out taking their walks. I went out but it seemed to chill me so I came
                                    right in. Have all the exercise I want in the building. From where we eat to where
                                    we get our baths must be as far as from our house as to the barn. My rheumatism
                                    seems to be aching quite a good deal at times but not hard. It kept me awake last
                                    night for 2 or 3 hours. They all say for the first 4 or 5 days it is worse and aRer
                                    that it gets better. …
                        Well, I hope you are all well. Tell the boys to turn the sheep into the yard
                                    & stay over night so they can get water and watch them the first time. They
                                    may be so dry that they will push each other in the tank an drown. And look after
                                    the fences an see that the cattle get water and see that the fat steers get their
                                    corn regular and so forth. Ray [son, age seventeen] is now old enough to take an
                                    interest in things and see what needs to be done.
                        Well I hope that Lizzie [Lou's sister] came down and Grandma [Lou's
                                    mother] so you can get your sewing done. Try and take good care of yourselves and
                                    keep well at home, if possible don't be worrying about me. …
                                    Tell those little boys I think of them lots of times. I know Glen [age four] and
                                    Howard [age one] will be asking for their Papa when you get this. Tell them to be
                                    good little children.8
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            The next day Stockdale added more description of Mudlavia and offered further advice to his wife. 
                  
                     
                        This place is 6 miles from where we got off the train. It is situated in the edge of
                                    a valley, 4 or 5 hundred acres surrounded with hills all covered with timber. It
                                    really looks beautiful. This is another nice day every one mostly that are able are
                                    out in the sun and taking walks and so forth. … If you need meat Ray and
                                    Rob [son age 12] could butcher a sheep. If it aint too warm of course, I cant tell
                                    how it is. Then do the best you can.9
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            He also wrote individually to his children. To his fifteen-year-old daughter Neva, he advised,
                    "Well Neva try and neuer be late at school, be always a good Girl & do good.
                    … Remember Gods eye seeith us all may our lives always be prescious in his sight. Is your
                    Fathers Prayer." Of son Robert he inquired, 
                  
                     
                        How are you getting along. Are you still trying your best to be a good boy? Guard
                                    against everything that has the appearence of evil. Guard your tongue govern your
                                    temper now when you are young then it will be easy for you as you grow to be a man,
                                    improve every minute at school & try and be useful and help your Mama every
                                    minute you can just think how much she has to do and every thing you do will make it
                                    that much easier for her.10
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
                  8C. J. Stockdale to "My Dear Wife and Family," October
                        9, 1908, Stockdale-Voogd Papers (in the author's possession).
               
                  9Stockdale to wife and family, October 10, 1908, ibid.
               
               
                  10stockdale to Neva, October 12, 1908, ibid.; Stockdale
                        to Robert, October 13, 1908, ibid.
               
            
            
            
               CHARLES J. STOCKDALE WITH WIFE, LOUISE MLLER STOCKDALE, AND CHILDREN, HOWARD, THREE, AND GLENN,
                        SIX, CIRCA 1910.
               Voogd-Stockdale collection in author's possession
            
            As Stockdale thought about his family and all the work at home, he was concerned about the length of
                    his stay. He joined what must have been frequent discussions among the Mudlavia visitors about
                    numbers of baths and cures: 
                  
                     
                        I think that I will come out all right but it may take 21 baths to do it. that seems
                                    like a long time to look ahead. But there are plenty of others that have to do it
                                    to. … There was a young man went away this morning feeling very happy.
                                    … he said when he came he could scarcely walk at all his knees and joints
                                    were all swollen and besides the rheumatism he had Exema. he said his face and head
                                    was sore all over when he would scratch his head the hair would come out. And now
                                    that was all well. … He took 21 baths."
                     
                  
               
                
            Progress was slow but Stockdale made an effort to remain hopeful: 
                  
                     
                        I took my bath this morning and while in the cooling room my leg hurt me oh so much.
                                    … I saw the Dr and told him, he said for me to go to my room and undress
                                    an go to bed and stay till noon and rest which I did until 1 oclock. … I
                                    am not any better than when I came or hardly as good but they say that it is a good
                                    sign to be worse that it shows the mud is drawing out the disease and that
                                    afterwards then they get better.12
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  11Stockdale to wife and family, October 9, 1908, ibid.
               
               
                  12Stockdale to wife and family, October 10, 1908, ibid.
               
            
            
            
               GENTLEMEN'S MOOR MUD BATH AT MUDLAVIA "Mud More Valuable Than Gold,"
                        booklet, Indiana Historical Society
            
            Some of Stockdale's fellow patients benefited from the treatments more than others: 
                  
                     
                        There were 14 left here this morning to their homes, some well, others helped some
                                    and som not helped at all. One man from 
                                        Texas
                                     & his wife, his wife was much better but he wasent any better
                                    whatever. There are several that dont get much of any relief. … Well Neva
                                    you would wonder to see all the women & young Ladies here lame &
                                    crippled with rheumatism. … I see so many here so bad that I have made up
                                    my mind that I aint very bad.
                        I really believe that I am getting better. My hip is ever so much better to day but
                                    the pain now seems to be in the calf of my leg and some in foot and seems to catch
                                    me in differents parts of my body that I never felt anything before.13
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            With one treatment a day, there was plenty of time for other activities. Many of the spas and
                    sanatoriums that developed around mineral springs grew into luxurious resorts for the wealthy, who
                    wanted fine food, comfortable surroundings, and leisure activities such as racing or gambling.
                    Mudlavia was clearly not being marketed to that clientele. As its brochure proclaimed, "Who
                    comes here, leaves vice behind."14 While some came for the
                    "whiskey treatment" or for leisure and relaxation, most were there because of
                    health problems. The activities were decidedly low-key and proper: "I must go out, sit on
                    the porch and sun myself after I finish this letter. … There are lots out playing Crochet
                    [croquet] and others playing golf more out bugy riding. Some here just resting up, dont know how to
                    spend their money." Later, Stockdale spoke about patients spending time writing letters:
                    "There is just 8 writing desks in this room & it is kept full from morning till
                    night most always."15
            
            
               
                  13Stockdale to Neva, October 12, 1908, ibid.
               
               
                  14Schanz, Mudlavia Resort Book, 19.
               
                  15Stockdale to Neva, October 12,1908, Stockdale-Voogd Papers; Stockdale to
                        Hazel, October 25, 1908, ibid.
               
            
            
            As the days passed and his body continued to ache, Stockdale sometimes gave in to despair: 
                  
                     
                        I sometimes dont know what to think about the treatments here. The night before
                                    last… I never slept any all, my leg kept acheing a little all night no
                                    matter which way I turned it kept on acheing not hard but just enough to keep me
                                    awake. I saw the Dr yesterday he told me to put a hot watter bag by it did so
                                    & last night slept some, it has been bothering some today.16
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    The Treatment and the Guests: Week Two
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    The philosophy of the mudbaths is that they bring the skin into lively
                                        action and open these ducts and pores, and let the bad matter out of the system,
                                        and it is the most rational manner of curing disease, especially rheumatism.
                                        … The characteristics of the Magno Lithia water, the minerals that
                                        are in it, the magnesia and lithia, which remain in the mud as the waters from
                                        the spring percolate through it are what give the mud its strength and drawing
                                        power.
                                    17
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            The efficacy of bathing in and drinking mineral water and of using hot springs and "lithia
                    mud" for reviving health, ending pain, and restoring skin and internal organs was touted in
                    medical literature as well as in the brochures and books published by the resorts and hotels.
                    Promoters reminded readers of the long history of hot springs and mineral water use in Europe and 
                        Greece
                     and by Native Americans in the 
                        United States
                    .
            The healing powers of certain waters have been recognized from earliest times, including Minoan and
                    Egyptian civilizations. Both Baden-Baden, 
                        Germany
                    , and 
                  Bath, England
               , were expanded from early Roman baths. Many spas in the 
                        United States
                     developed from springs celebrated by Native Americans. In 1832, Hot Springs, long a
                    well-known medicinal spring, became the first National Reserve; it was the first time the federal
                    government acquired land specifically for public recreational and health purposes.18
            
            By the nineteenth century, scientists were especially interested in the chemical analysis of these
                    waters. It was not scientists, though, but "enthusiastic commercial promoters, romantic
                    travel writers and passionate health reformers who cultivated the fashionable perceptions and
                    popular acceptance of America's healing waters."19
            
            Medical doctors in the twentieth century used scientific language to explain how these processes
                    aided health. They developed 
                  
                     16Stockdale to Hasel [sic], October 14, 1908, ibid.
                  
                  
                     17Schanz, Mudlavia Resort Book, 19.
                  
                     18Joseph Wechsberg, The Lost World of the Great Spas (
                                New York
                            , 1979), 6-8, 45-48, 180; Jonathan Paul De Vierville, "American Healing
                            Waters: A Chronology (1513–1946) and Historical Survey of America's
                            Major Springs, Spas, and Health Resorts Including a Review of Their Medicinal Virtues,
                            Therapeutic Methods, and Health Care Practices" (2 vols., Ph.D. dissertation,
                            University of 
                                Texas
                            , Austin, 1992), I, 252.
                  
                     19De Vierville, "American Healing Waters," I,
                        161.
               
                    
                    
                  POSTCARD OF THE LITHIA SPRINGS AT MUDLAVIA 1900 
                                Warren County
                             Historical Society
               
                     case studies, sought clinical authentication, and established
                    sanatoriums that would treat disease. In 1908, the year Stockdale visited Mudlavia, the American
                    Climatological Society committee on health resorts listed a new mineral water classification system
                    as supporters eagerly explained the reasons for health results. Respected physicians wrote huge
                    guides to mineral water spas throughout the country, including information about hundreds of
                    diseases mineral waters could cure. As late as the 1940s, some doctors continued to advocate such
                        treatments.20
            
            The history of spas and mineral-water use suggests that medicinal waters may have been widely
                    available within the ancient communities that valued springs. However, in the nineteenth century
                    mineral-water baths were for the most part an activity of the wealthy, who could afford the leisure
                    time and costs of travel and hotels. One strain of this literature highlights the role of spas as a
                    place of rest for educated middle- and upper-class white women.21
            
            Stockdale's letters provide another view. As he wrote about how the treatment at Mudlavia
                    affected him and those about him, he was concerned with health, not recreation. Most of his fellow
                    patients shared that focus and in fact they were a vital part of the healing process. The sufferers
                    encouraged one another, providing hope or sharing concerns.
            A book about Mudlavia published by the Indiana Springs Company in 1901 included descriptions of many
                    of the guests. Stockdale, a farmer and livestock dealer, fit in well. The most common age groups
                    represented among patients were forty-one to fifty and sixty-one to seventy, which reflected the
                    fact that health concerns associated with aging brought most people there. Men outnumbered women.
                    Most females were identified as wife, daughter, granddaughter, or sister of another guest, usually
                    male. While a few women were identified as individuals, only two were described as employed, one as
                    a sculptor, the other connected with the "Office of Hildreth Hotel and Opera House
                        Company."22 Although only a few women are identified in the book,
                    there appeared to be a thriving women's section, which Stockdale described in some detail.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        I see that the Women have a large dress like a night dress but large & made
                                    of heavy woolen cloth. They wear them to the booth and have to have them on in the
                                    cooling room. The men have them to some have blankets. I bought a blanket here for a
                                    dollar that answers the purpose alright. The Women have their separate Rooms and
                                    Ladies to wait on them. The men have a separate booth to undress in. … I
                                    throw the blanket around me and go to the mud bath room, throw it of, then get int a
                                    bed of 
                              
                                 20Fitch, Mineral Waters, 19-29;
                                            Henry E. Sigerist, "American Spas in Historical
                                            Perspective," Bulletin of the History of
                                            Medicine, XI (February 19421, 133-47.
                              
                                 21See Susan E. Cayleff, Wash and Be
                                                Healed: The Water-Cure Movement and Women's Health (
                                                Philadelphia
                                            , Penn., 1987).
                              
                                 22Schanz, Mudlavia Resort Book,
                                            31-44, 57-62, 81, 84-107.
                           
                                     mud fixed on a cot. There a man covers me all
                                    up except my head and some over the breast. The mud is heated & fixed all by
                                    machinary in a separate room.23
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Stockdale believed that his wife's sister, Lizzie, might benefit from the treatment and he
                    was willing to pay her way: 
                  
                     
                        I was talking to the Dr here about Lizzies Neuralgia in the stomach. He said if I was
                                    sure it was Neuralgia it would certainly cure her here. He said if it was canser it
                                    would do no good. He said her stomach could be pumped out & the contents
                                    anna-lyzed and if it was canser they could tell. Now Lou I have been thinking if she
                                    wanted to come here and take these baths here that you could give her the money to
                                    do it with. She has done lots for us, and it seems too bad for her to suffer if she
                                    can be cured. it only costs about 10 dollars to get here for fare. You can talk it
                                    over with her & see what she thinks of it if she comes before I go home it
                                    wouldent be so lonesome for either of us.24
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Although Stockdale mentions loneliness, he probably found a number of guests of his own age and class
                    who shared his general interests. Of 110 professions listed in the book, there were 25 merchants, 10
                    hotel proprietors, 5 bankers, 5 salesmen, and 5 insurance agents. There were 4 farmers, 8 railroad
                    agents or managers, and another 10 persons who worked as other kinds of business managers. Seven men
                    were described as politicians, almost always "stalwart Republicans," and 4 were
                    listed as newspaper publishers. There were a few teachers, college administrators, and 2 clergymen,
                    one a Catholic, another from the Armour Mission in 
                        Chicago
                    . Many upper-middle-class professionals were regular guests at Mudlavia. The publishers
                    highlighted the visitors who represented the upper strata of society.
            Stockdale was also upper middle class, if judged by his farm holdings. The Stockdale farm was one of
                    the largest in the Aplington area, over one thousand acres, at a time when the average 
                        United States
                     farm was 138 acres. As a leader in the local Presbyterian church and having been
                    "elected to offices of trust" in his community, Stockdale shared many of the
                    values and expectations of others at Mudlavia. At the same time, he was not
                    "elite." Aplington had no electric service until 1915, when a town-sponsored
                    generator ran between 8 a.m. and 10 p.m. Looking back when she was eighty, Neva Stockdale remembered
                    the coming of indoor plumbing. Washday and much of farm work was backbreaking and tiresome, no
                    matter how successful the farmer. So the Stockdale experience was much the same as their rural
                    neighbors; the extent of difference between the wealthy and more modest was not so extreme in the 
                        Iowa
                     small town of 1908 as it was in more urban parts of the country, or as it became later
                    in the century.25
            
            
               
                  23Stockdale to wife, October 16, 1908, Stockdale-Voogd Papers.
               
                        24
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  25More farms in 1910 were between 50 and 499 acres than any other size,
                        and only 50,000 farms were over 1,000 acres out of 6.37 million farms. 
                            Texas
                         Education Agency,
                        http://www.tea.state.tx.us/resources/ssced/techno/activity3handout1.htm;
            
            
            
               HAZEL STOCKDALE, TWELVE, AND WILLIAM STOCKDALE, THIRTEEN, CIRCA 1910.
               Voogd-StockdaleCollection in author's possession
            
            It is clear from Stockdale's observations that not everyone was helped equally at Mudlavia
                    and that his own future health was still in question: 
                  
                     
                        There was a man this morning fainted away in the mud room just as he was going to get
                                    in. … I am afraid he never will get well. Most all who were here when I
                                    came have gone away & the rooms all filled again so many new faces. One man
                                    came last night had rheumatism for 25 years and only lives 30 miles from hear. He
                                    said he thought he could wear it out he changed his mind & thought it would
                                    wear him out. … There are a good many folks here business men just to
                                    have vacation and rest up.26
                        
                     
                  
                A few days later Stockdale described another patient. 
                  
                     
                        It is wonderful how many that comes here for treatment. There was a man came here
                                    last night he weighs 300 lbs big plug hat & long beard he has been a large
                                    Bridge contractor & now a Banker. They say he is a million heir he must be
                                    70 years old. He has a little rheumatism to.27
                        
                     
                  
                Not all the patients were old. 
                  
                     
                        The young man that was so bad caused by riding his bicicle went away this morning not
                                    as well as when he came. They carried him on a cot from home & took him back
                                    on it. There are but few here now that was here when I came. Mostly all new faces.
                                    It realy wonderful to see so many cripples they keep coming. Then there are some
                                    here to get the whisky soaked out and for all kind of troubles. There was a German
                                    Dr from St louis when I came, he is here yet. Saturday last his Wife came to. She is
                                    a Dr also. There is nothing wrong with either a nice couple just having a vacation,
                                        
                              Jane Abbas, Diletta Buseman, Sylvia Meyer, and Becky Uhlenhopp, Aplington 1856–1981: 125 Years (Aplington, 
                                                Iowa
                                            , 1981), 30, 47, 139; Centennial Committee, First
                                                Presbyterian Church, Aplington, 
                                                    Iowa
                                                , 1869–1969 (Aplington, 
                                                Iowa
                                            , 1969), 2-5.
                              
                                 26Stockdale to wife, October 18, 1908, Stockdale-Voogd
                                            Papers.
                              
                                 27Stockdale to wife, October 20, 1908, ibid.
                              
                           
                                     they both take the treatment. The man wants to
                                    reduce his weight and only eats one meal a day. Still he has gained 4 lbs so far he
                                    weighs 220 lbs naked.28
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            During his second week at Mudlavia, Stockdale began to attend religious services. Nonsectarian
                    worship was offered at a small Victorian wood-shingled church built at the behest of Mrs. Kramer,
                    wife of the Mudlavia director. In addition to Sunday and midweek services, the church also served as
                    a meeting and performance space: "There is going to be preaching to night at 1/2 past 7. I
                    will try & go it is only about 50 feet but have go to up stairs all the way, the house is on
                    top of the bluff. There are lots out bugy riding."29
            
            As time passed, Stockdale showed less interest in his family's affairs, offering little
                    advice except words of quick encouragement, especially to his wife to care for "those
                    little boys." "Tell Neva to get up early and above all things to never be late at
                    school it is only a habit to be late[.]"30 "Take good care of
                    those little boys Glen & baby especially that nothing happens them. & larger ones to
                    was expecting a letter to day but nothing came."31 "How is
                    Neva my sweet little Lady & then Hazel that great standby an little worker. & all
                    these young men."32
            
            Stockdale's patience was wearing thin. Although he realized that a cure might take several
                    days or even weeks, he constantly questioned whether he was getting better. Some days there appeared
                    to be improvement; other days he was weary of the whole process. On October 16, a week after his
                    arrival, Stockdale reported 
                  
                     
                        It seems like a good while since I left home. And I am so thankful that I havent had
                                    any of those severe pains which I had the last Sunday at home. … I felt
                                    weak after my bath to day and lay down in bed til dinertime. … today at
                                    dinner it was hard for me to sit on the chair so long, no cushion to put on it it
                                    dont ache so much now slept some last night had hot water at my feet will keep it
                                    there every night after this. … there isent much here to write about it
                                    is the same thing over again.33
                        
                     
                  
                A few days later he wrote, 
                  
                     
                        Well I slept very good last night but had to have the hot water bag at my foot and
                                    knee. … staid in the mud … about 45 minutes usually 30.
                                    … I feel some improvement & expect fmm now on to get better every
                                    day. … I dont expect now to leave hear until I take 21 baths, today was
                                    the 11th bath 10 more. …34
                        
                        It is just two weeks this evening since I arrived here. After my baths this morning
                                    it seemed as if I was much better but when I came to walk to my room my leg felt
                                    very weak & pained me some. However I believe the treatment is going to cure
                                    me. They say that after going home most every one continues to improve until
                                        well.35
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            
               
                  28Stockdale to wife, October 21, 1908, ibid.
               
               
                  29Stockdale to wife, October 18, 1908, ibid.
               
               
                  30Stockdale to wife, October 16, 1908, ibid.
               
               
                  31Stockdale to wife, October 21, 1908, ibid.
               
               
                  32Stockdale to wife, October 23, 1908, ibid.
               
               
                  33Stockdale to wife, October 16, 1908, ibid.
               
               
                  34Stockdale to wife, October 18, 1908, ibid.
               
               
                  35Stockdale to wife, October 20, 1908, ibid.
               
            
            
            
               CHAPEL AND "SULPHO-SALINE" SPRING AT MUDLAVIA HEALTH RESORT, 1907
               
                  
                            Warren County
                         Historical Society
            
            
                    Waiting for the Cure: Week Three
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           In regard to the treatment of rheumatism at your institution, allow me
                                        to say that during my wife's illness with this trouble we visited the
                                        famous places in 
                                            Arkansas
                                         and 
                                            Colorado
                                        , but found nothing to equal the mud cure and Lithia water Baths
                                        found at Mudlauia, Ind. Too much cannot be said in praise of your institution,
                                        and I most earnestly and sincerely recommend the treatment to all persons
                                        afflicted with rheumatism. Your respectful,
                        
                                    
                                        I. H. Taylor, M.D. 
                                                Springfield
                                            , Il36
                              
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Rheumatism was one of the most common complaints prompting patients to try the mud cure. The term
                    rheumatism' appeared to cover many different pains and conditions, so that it is difficult
                    either to identify Stockdale's illness or to know whether the treatments worked. Rheumatism
                    had long been identified as a disease affecting joints; classical references abound, as do reports
                    of treatment at English and French bathhouses and spas. The term was often interchanged with
                    arthritis or confused with gout, yet nearly every description of spas includes rheumatism as one of
                    the diseases cured.37
            
            In the decades immediately following Stockdale's visit to Mudlavia much would be written
                    challenging the accuracy of rheumatism as a diagnosis and mineral water as a cure. One writer called
                    rheumatism a "much abused word, covering a multitude of pains and aches whether in the
                    bones, muscles or joints," leading to much quackery. 
                  
                     36For a typical testimonial from more than forty published see Schanz,
                                Mudlauia Resort Book, 32.
                  
                     37Roy Porter and G. S. Roussaeu, Gout: The Patrician
                                Malady (
                                New Haven
                            , Conn., 1998), 7-9; Roy Porter, ed., The Medical History of Waters
                                and Spas (
                                London
                            , Eng., 1990), 96-97.
               
                     He said cases were due to infedion, old injuries, or
                    "misplacements," and listed pages of alleged treatments, all of them ineffective.
                    Another physician suggested that arthritis was more commonly used to designate inflammatory trouble
                    within a joint and that many joint disturbances were incorrectly given the name rheumatism.38
            
            Recent definitions bring us back to the earlier reports in which rheumatism seems to be a catch-all
                    term. 
                        Rheumatism is a general term for an acute chronic condition characterized by inflammation,
                            soreness and stiffness of muscles, and pain in joints and associated structures. It includes
                            arthritis (infectious, rheumatoid, and gouty); arthritis due to rheumatic fever or trauma;
                            degenerative joint diseases; neurogenic arthsopathy; hydroarthrosis; myositis; bursitis;
                            fibromyositis and many other conditions.39
                  
                     Stockdale's condition may have been osteoarthritis, joint pain due to breakdown of
                    cartilage, characterized by specific, localized symptoms. He complained most often of pain in his
                    leg. However, he also reported pain in his hip, back, calf, and foot, which suggests the more
                    serious, systemic condition of rheumatoid arthritis, in which the lining of the joints becomes
                    inflamed. The resulting crippling pain, especially in arms and legs, makes this second diagnosis
                    more likely.
            With more than forty-three million persons today suffering from such conditions, modern medicine,
                    using aspirin and cortisone, has alleviated many symptoms. Alternative therapies are still sought by
                    many sufferers. In fact, mineral water may have a positive effect on joint pain. Mudbaths and hot
                    springs especially may provide temporary relief by holding body heat, which may relieve aches and
                    pains. For rheumatism sufferers in the early twentieth century, the rest, heat, and attention of the
                    health spa was ofien, as it appeared to be for Stockdale, the last hope.40
            
            During his third week at Mudlavia, Stockdale continued to write about his own struggle with
                    rheumatism and his hopes for the mineral mud and water cure. He measured the successes of other
                    patients against his own experience: 
                  
                     
                        There are several milion heirs here and such stile the Ladies put on. So many limping
                                    & with crutches and chairs coming to the tables some cant get out of the
                                    chair eat right in their whealed chair. … There was a little boy came
                                    last night 8 years old he had a large absess on his arm the Dr at home told them it
                                    was rheumatism & sent him here. They lansed it at 8 oclock last night. I
                                    heard the little fellow scream. This morning he is all right dont hurt anymore.41
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Stockdale was encouraged by others' cures. "There is a young man came here 5 days
                    ago couldent get on his coat alone could scarsely 
                  
                     38Arthur Cramp, ed., Nostrums and Quackery and
                                Pseudomedicine (3 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1911-1936), 111, 181-89; Fitch, Mineral Waters, 127.
                  
                     39Clayton L. Thomas, ed., Tuber's Cyclopedic
                                Medical Dictionary (19th ed., 
                                Philadelphia
                            , Penn., 20011, 1886.
                  
                     40Roy Porter, ed., The 
                                    Cambridge
                                 Illustrated History of Medicine (
                                Cambridge
                            , Eng., 1996), 112.
                  
                     41Stockdale to wife, October 22, 1908, Stockdale-Voogd Papers.
               
                     open his hand now he is as well as ever every pain gone and is
                    going home tomarrow. It is really wonderful the people they cure & help That man that
                    fainted away Sunday is feeling fine now & his rheumatism seems to be all gone."42
            
            As his visit extended, Stockdale's comments contained more religious references, suggesting
                    an increase in his prayers for recovery: 
                  
                     
                        I was out to meeting this afternoon at 3 oclock. his text was from the 3rd comandment
                                    Thou shalt not take the name of the Lord thy God in vain for the Lord will not hold
                                    him guiltless that taketh his name in Vain. It was an excelent sermon. I couldent
                                    help thinking about my nice young boys. I do hope they never will let such a thing
                                    ever come in their Hart.43
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            His letters often ended with a prayer: "May God bless and be with you all. Look up to him in
                    whose hand our very breath is. Is the prayer of your Dear Husband & Father."44 "May the Lord that rules the Heavens and the Earth take care of you
                    all and his spirit abide in all of your Harts is my earnest prayer Your loving Father &
                        Husband."45
            
            Stockdale's hopes and anxieties were reflected in his letters as the pressure rose in the
                    last week. "I do believe that I am getting quite a relief from the treatments. They claim
                    that the last week does the most good. I will know afterwards. Every day seems like a week.
                    … hope to be home before long I am counting the days."46
            
            He wrote home every day the last week: 
                  
                     
                        You may think that I wouldent get lonesome so many here, but I do. There isent but
                                    one here now that came when I did. … every day seems as long as two.
                                    … I am still improving but slow it is just very hard to get well.
                                    … There dont seem to be any news to write. It is just the same thing over
                                        again.47
                        
                        One more day & … treatment over. This morning I wasent as well and
                                    dident sleep good last night. I feel some pain in my hip now as I writing but very
                                    mild my leg feels very weak it is hard to get it out of these old bones.48
                        
                        It seems as if my time here is getting shorter. Still I havent improved as much as I
                                    expected. I see so many got along so much faster still they are all much younger.49
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Somewhat suddenly the final treatments brought a definite change to "these old
                    bones." Stockdale was filled with great joy and wonder. It appeared that the mud baths had
                    worked. Or had he willed himself well? If so, was the cure only temporary? One fact was certain: by
                    the completion of the twenty-first treatment, his pain had disappeared. 
                  
                     42Stockdale to wife, October 23, 1908, ibid.
                  
                  
                     43Stockdale to Hazel, October 25, 1908, ibid.
                  
                  
                     44Stockdale to wife, October 21, 1908, ibid.
                  
                  
                     45Stockdale to Hazel, October 25, 1908, ibid.
                  
                  
                     46Stockdale to wife, October 21, 1908, ibid.
                  
                  
                     47Stockdale to wife, October 22, 1908, ibid.
                  
                  
                     48Stockdale to wife, October 23, 1908, ibid.
                  
                  
                     49Stockdale to wife, October 24, 1908, ibid.
                  
               
                    
                    
                  
                     
                        I am feeling ever so much better today. Since I had my baths this morning havent felt
                                    a pain since. … I can scarcely believe my Self how nice my leg feels
                                    without pain only a little weak. it is really wonderful how many get cured here with
                                    the treatment. I have taken by Tuesday 21 baths & you may know that sweating
                                    so much that my flesh is just like a little child the least wind or draft I cant
                                    stand. … It seems like two months since I have been here.50
                        
                        Words and pen fail to express how thankful I am to the Giver of all good for the
                                    return of my health once more. Yesterday morning in coming from my baths I could
                                    scarcely believe seemed to walk without pain. "his morning … I
                                    felt a little from small of my back to my hip but very light and only for a minute.
                                    Tomarrow will be 21 baths.51
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            The following day, apparently still improved, Stockdale began his return trip, taking the train from
                    Attica to 
                        Chicago
                     and then west to Aplington, 
                        Iowa
                    , and his busy family and farm. No hrther letters tell us how he fared when he arrived
                    home and whether the cure he experienced stayed with him. He continued to work the farm, his
                    children grew, and he became an elder of the local Presbyterian church. Stockdale died almost nine
                    years later, in June 1917, at the age of seventy-one. His death certificate listed the cause of
                    death as "Diabetes, coma."
            Mudlavia continued to prosper for nearly two decades after Stockdale returned home. A neighboring
                    enterprise, the Hunter Hotel, began to bottle the area's mineral water and compete with
                    Mudlavia; in 1914 they merged their bottling activities. Mudlavia was described in federal mineral
                    water reports of this decade as a "large and commodious hostelry, with modern improvements
                    and conveniences … fitted especially for administering the celebrated ‘mud
                    baths’ for which the resort has become famous." There were rumors that Al Capone
                    came to the site when he needed a rest from 
                        Chicago
                    . The lithia water continued to be sold until much later in the century.52
            
            In February 1920 a fire that started in a linen closet burned the building to the ground causing
                    great distress to the guests, especially those who were in the baths at the time. Everyone escaped
                    the inferno, and H. L. Kramer promised to rebuild immediately. However, restarting such an opulent
                    business proved difficult.53
            
            
               
                  50Stockdale to Hazel, October 25, 1908, ibid.
               
               
                  51Stockdale to wife, October 26, 1908, ibid.
               
               
                  52
                  
                            Warren County
                        , Indiana, Historical Records Database, http://www.warren-co.net/history. A
                        strongly-worded statement in the material published by the Indiana Springs Company may be a
                        reference to the competition offered by Hunter Springs. In describing the train attendants who
                        met incoming guests and drove them to the site, readers were warned: "Look for the
                        right name and uniform on arrival, as a number of parasitic little fake institutions have sprung
                        up in the neighborhood who try to mislead our patrons by imitating the style of our uniforms and
                        vehicles." Schanz, Mudlavia Resort Book, 71. Fitch, Mineral Waters, 361; Ronald L. Baker, From Needmore to Prosperity:
                            Hoosier Place Names in Folklore and History (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 19951, 231.
               
                  53Attica Ledger, March 5, 1920; 
                            Williamsport
                        
                        Review-Republican, January 15, 1970.
            
            
            Across the country, mineral springs, spas, and resorts continued to thrive into the 1920s, including
                    a spring selling mineral water in 
                        Iowa
                     Falls, 
                        Iowa
                    , only twenty-five miles from the Stockdale farm. Fires, floods, and other disasters
                    took a toll, causing many to close.
            While supporters claimed great success from mineral-springs treatments, skeptics uncovered many false
                    practitioners and misrepresentations of the diseases that could be cured and of the chemical
                    contents of the lithia and other mineral waters sold in nearly every state. Closer federal
                    regulation and health laws challenged many dubious practices.
            During this period, a series of news articles reported that Kramer had additional problems of his own
                    with the law. He was convicted of illegal activity in 
                        California
                     and nearly spent time in jail. Several months after being found guilty of using the
                    mails to defraud, as part of a land development scheme, he was exonerated, but the adverse publicity
                    was another blow to his plans.54
            
            Although a new building had reopened on the Mudlavia site by 1934, the depressed economy led people
                    to spend less time and money at such resorts. People were also not as likely to use spas for health
                    reasons. New developments in medicine, including the use of penicillin and other "wonder
                    drugs" led people to reevaluate the effectiveness and necessity of long stays in health
                    spas. According to Jonathan De Vierville, author of a recent history of American spas, the culture
                    was changing, away from the traditional spa, which 
                        required an established form, systematic order, and regulated regimes that required rest and
                            time. Modern consciousness needed newness and speed and was basically unfavorable, if not
                            antagonistic toward ritual, traditional and ordered cultural forms vital to socially
                            regenerative spa practices and ancient spa methods. Healing waters needed time, form, and
                            tradition: modernity demanded speed, novelty, and technology.55
                  
                    
                
            The building in Kramer was used as a hotel and subsequently became housing for the elderly and
                    infirm. It was later refashioned as a restaurant, but by the 1970s it was deserted again and after a
                    final fire in 1974 the site was abandoned. Today there are still springs at the Mudlavia site. The
                    water is tapped at one of the springs across the road from the former hotel. It is bottled under the
                    Cameron Springs label.
            Few traces remain of the buildings that marked this "large and commodious
                    hostelry." The brick smoke stack of the last building still stands, a small lily-pad
                    covered pond suggests the goldfish pond and fountain, and up in the hills is the concrete and brick
                    holding 
                  
                     54Attica Ledger-Tribune, September 15, 1927; Attica
                                
                        
                                    Fountain
                                -
                                    Warren
                                 Democrat, July 19, 1928.
                  
                     55Fitch, Mineral Waters, 374; Woods Hutchinson,
                            "Taking the Waters: The Humbug of Hot Springs," Everybody's Magazine, XXVIII (February 1913), 159-72; Harvey W. Wiley and
                            Anne Lewis Pierce, "The Mineral Water Humbug," Good
                                Housekeeping, LIX (July 1914), 107-11; Valenza, Taking the Waters in 
                                    Texas
                                
                     , 138-47; De Vierville, "American Healing Waters," I,
                            618-19.
               
                     tank from the lithium-spring gazebo, which stood near the small
                    Victorian church. Large trees dot the grounds in what were once formal designs. There is no hint of
                    the four-hundred-acre farm that produced the fresh food served to the guests. And there is nothing
                    in the scene to suggest the grandeur of the site, or the great hopes of the men and women who
                    visited in their efforts to find health, relaxation, and renewal.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Homeless, Friendless, and Penniless: The WPA Interviews with Former Slaves Living in
                        Indiana. By Ronald L. Baker. (Blooming-ton: Indiana University Press, 2000. Pp. xx, 341.
                    Illustrations, appendices, bibliography, index. $29.95.)
            It is an impressive and extensive career in folklore that Professor Ronald L. Baker brings to the
                    enterprise of editing this collection of WPA Indiana narratives of formerly enslaved African
                    Americans. Because of his interests and training he has seen many of the pitfalls that marked the
                    paths of the early interviewers, editors, and collectors of these and similar narratives. Baker
                    separates himself from those who would offer this material in its "original form,"
                    arguing with a compelling clarity that no such texts are—or were—ever possible
                    (p. 9). From the time of their compilation, the stories were frequently summarized, smoothed out,
                    retold in less controversial language, and shaped by the dubious practice of recording
                    dialect—a practice challenged by the great WPA editors such as John Lomax and Sterling 
                        Brown
                     (pp. 11-12).
            Baker offers this collection for the "general reader," an audience that will
                    benefit fiom the content and format of the book. Even the most sophisticated student of U.S.
                    history, Indiana history, and Afkican American cultural history might be surprised at the wealth of
                    information that has survived in these stones. Baker best serves both the speakers and the
                    increasingly distant readers when he presents both a general summary of what was taken down in
                    interviews and also a first-person version of selected narratives. Teachers, artisans, musicians,
                    ministers, political figures, builders, farmers, day laborers, and house servants sit at the
                    interlocutors' table and add their testimony to the collection that is assembled in Homeless, Friendless, and Penniless.
            
            Most of the informants were in their seventies, eighties, or even nineties when they were
                    interviewed, but their memory of whippings, murders, the selling of children, hypocrisy, and
                    betrayal remains vivid in these accounts. Songs, jokes, sly wit, and irony present a picture of
                    fully realized human beings, still in the process of constructing themselves. The narrative map
                    traces pathways from places in 
                  Kentucky, Tennessee, Missouri
                (and other southern sites), to cities and communities from 
                        Evansville
                     to 
                        Gary
                    —and all the way to 
                        Liberia
                    , and back, in the case of George 
                        Washington
                     Buckner (p. 81). Not all old people are wise, but Homeless, Friendless,
                        and Penniless suggests that, by being alert, resourceful, open to the unknown, quick to
                    take risks, and self-determining, the survivors of enslavement and its aftermath can still teach
                    valuable lessons long after their deaths. This collection will be an effective introduction to an
                    immensely usable past.
            JOSEPH A. BROWN, S.J., is professor and director of the Black American studies program at
                    Southern 
                        Illinois
                     University, Carbondale. He has used slave narratives extensively in his work in African
                    American theology and literature, focusing especially on aesthetic theories derived from black
                    sacred song.
         
         
         
            
               The 
                            Pennsylvania
                         Railroad at Bay: William Riley McKeen and the 
                            Terre Haute
                         & 
                            Indianapolis
                         Railroad. By Richard T. Wallis. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 2001. Pp. xiv, 189. Illustrations, maps, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $44.95.)
            Richard T. Wallis has written a David and Goliath railroad story that has all the elements of a
                    corporate thriller. He sets the locally owned and operated Hoosier line, the 
                        Terre Haute
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                     that opened in 1852, against the juggernaut of the East, the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Railroad, which coveted the road to cement its connections with 
                        St. Louis
                    . William McKeen, a 
                        Terre Haute
                     banker and an archetypal self-made man, fought off powefil opponents such as James
                    McCrea and George Roberts to preserve his control of the TH&I and ensure that it served his
                    home town.
            The author not only sets the local railway in the national context but has written a book that is
                    partly a McKeen biography and partly a TH&I corporate history. He succeeds on both counts;
                    he concentrates on the tension between McKeen's aspirations (both personal and corporate)
                    and his battle with the eastern interests, but he never loses sight of the story's main
                    threads.
            To further attract the reader, Wallis injects a large dose of evil in the personage of Henry S. Ives,
                    an obscure, tubercular financier who, in his short appearance on the national stage just before he
                    went to jail, tried to take over the 
                        Baltimore
                     & 
                        Ohio
                     Railroad. McKeen made the biggest mistake of his life in 1887 when, after failing to
                    sell the small railway empire he had assembled around the TH&I to the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     interests, he suddenly unloaded his shares to Ives, who promptly milked the
                    TH&I of its assets to buy the B&O.
            McKeen ultimately emerges as the hero of the saga. After Ives went broke, McKeen took over the
                    TH&I and welded together a patchwork system, the Vandalia lines, and labored to pull it back
                    from the brink of bankruptcy. Getting older and exhausted by his political exertions on behalf of
                    the Indiana Republican party and running his bank in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , he sold out to the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in 1894.
            Wallis has adeptly chronicled a prime example of what was happening all over the country as railway
                    consolidations gobbled up smaller, independently-owned railways. While it was inevitable that the
                    Vandalia's location, directly athwart the 
                        Pennsylvania
                    's interests, would sooner or later undermine the company's
                    independence, McKeen postponed that outcome as long as possible.
            The book is graced by good writing and a wonderful story; its maps and photographs also greatly
                    enhance the volume. The 
                            Pennsylvania
                         at Bay is a valuable addition to the meager railroad literature on midwestern
                    roads and their relationships with their much more powerful eastern connections.
            JAMES A. WARD is Gueny professor of history at the University of 
                  Tennessee, Chattanooga
               .
                    He has written several books on railway and automobile history.
         
         
         
            
               Banners to the Breeze: The Kentucky Campaign, Corinth, and Stones
                        River. By Earl J. Hess. (
                        Lincoln
                    : University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 2000. Pp. xiv, 252. Maps, illustrations, notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $32.00.)
            Without a doubt, Earl J. Hess's Banners to the Breeze is one of the finest
                    Civil War campaign histories ever written. Hess has the uncanny ability to meld the complexities of
                    politics (domestic and international), extended campaign logistics, public sentiment,
                    commanders' squabbles, and tactics into a thoughtful and readable history. More
                    importantly, Hess reminds us of the tremendous difficulties in western theater operations in a very
                    large, geographically diverse terrain, with multigauge rail lines and oppressive heat and humidity.
            Taking the war into the deep South in the early months of 1862 proved to federal commanders that
                    campaigning there would require a shift in military thought and training from conquer-and-occupy to
                    swift movement and foraging off the land. Hess argues convincingly that "Westerners would
                    have to learn to become hardy campaigners as well as tough fighters on the battlefield, for their
                    part of the war was won as much by moving over vast distances as by slugging it out with their enemy
                    on a small field of battle" (p. 5). He demonstrates that western federal soldiers
                    (predominantly men from the Old Northwest states and 
                        Kentucky
                    ) far exceeded their eastern comrades in this respect.
            The western rebel armies also learned these lessons and were significantly different from their
                    eastern counterparts. Hess could have explored further why western Confederate commanders did not
                    exploit their geographical advantages more than they did. Nevertheless, he astutely places the three
                    rebel offensives of late summer 1862 into their proper political and historical contexts.
                    Confederate defeats at 
                        Antietam
                    , Perryville, and Corinth, combined with the importance of the Emancipation
                    Proclamation—a document that changed the course of the Civil War and that has not been
                    adequately studied by historians—-combined to spell certain doom for the rebellion.
            Perhaps the most enjoyable aspect of this book is the author's ability to tell a good story
                    and to write it clearly. Academicians' writings are often plagued with a stilted vocabulary
                    aimed at lay historians with the cruel intent to intimidate them. Hess has rejected this attitude
                    and given us a very readable history supported by quotations from figures of all ranks, from
                    presidents to privates. Banners to the Breeze is a welcome addition to the Great
                    Campaigns of the Civil War series and necessary reading for a thorough understanding of the
                    importance of the western theater to the defeat of the Confederacy.
            ROGER C. ADAMS is assistant professor and rare books librarian at Hale Library, 
                        Kansas
                     State University, Manhattan, 
                        Kansas
                    . He is a past president of the Perryville Civil War Round Table and a consultant to the
                    Penyville Battlefield State Historic Shrine.
         
         
         
            
               City of Big Shoulders: A History of 
                            Chicago
                        . By Robert G. Spinney. (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 2000. Pp. xiv, 300. Map, illustrations, tables, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $40.00.)
            Robert G. Spinney wrote City of Big Shoulders in order to provide undergraduate
                    students (and the general public) with a briet unpretentious introduction to the history of 
                        Chicago
                    . In this, Spinney succeeds admirably. He narrates the city's history from its
                    origins as an inhospitable swamp whose potential for water transport attracted the attention of
                    French explorers, through the nineteenth-century economic transformations that made 
                        Chicago
                     the nation's "second city," to its late-twentieth-century
                    resurgence. Having chosen to describe the broad sweep of 
                        Chicago
                    's development, Spinney largely ignores the city's internal landscape.
                    Readers who prefer to get their bearings on a city through geography and architecture should still
                    turn to Harold M. Mayer's and Richard C. Wade's 1969 illustrated history, 
                  
                            Chicago
                        : Growth of a Metropolis.
            
            A Carl Sandburg poem about the city's brawny character provides the book's title.
                    Accordingly, Spinney's vision focuses most acutely on 
                        Chicago
                    's people, because "
                        Chicago
                    's story is in many ways the story of newcomers to the city" (p. 123).
                    Spinney rightly portrays 
                        Chicago
                     as a city whose multiethnic personality dates to its first days as a settlement. In
                    discussing the twentieth century, however, Spinney twice mischaracterizes the contours of racial and
                    ethnic segregation in 
                        Chicago
                    . He portrays turn-of-the-century immigrants as having lived in isolated ethnic
                    enclaves; in fact, even immigrants who clustered amidst their countrymen also lived in close
                    proximity to people from a wide variety of origins. Spinney also wrongly attributes the lingering
                    hypersegregation of African Americans to the high-rise public housing complexes built in the 1950s
                    and 1960s. Public housing residents rarely constituted more than 5 percent of 
                        Chicago
                    's total population and so cannot account for thoroughgoing segregation in
                    private housing.
            Spinney is at his strongest describing the evolution of 
                        Chicago
                    's politics. For the city's first century, mayors served short terms
                    and were largely powerless relative to the city council. Reformers and revelers alternated in
                    office, shamelessly pandering to voters. With the influx of multitudes from southern Europe and the
                    American South, the Democratic party forged a powerful political machine that ran the city for more
                    than four decades. This machine culminated, of course, in the legendary reign of Richard J. Daley,
                    the father of the city's current mayor.
            Some of the problems in City of Big Shoulders result from editorial decisions.
                    Because Spinney writes for the general reader, the text is largely unburdened by footnotes. This
                    choice obscures the extent to which both the structure and analysis of chapter four, covering the
                    nineteenth-century economy, depend on William C. Cronon's 
                    Nature's Metropolis. Given the sparse footnotes, a bibliographic essay
                    might have been a better guide than the bibliography for readers who wish to learn more about a
                    particular topic. The prose also suffers from internal contradictions that closer editorial
                    attention could have resolved. City of Big Shoulders is accessible and serves its
                    purpose as an introduction to 
                        Chicago
                    's past. But readers should treat it as an introduction—not as the
                    last word.
            AMANDA SELIGMAN is an assistant professor of history at the University of 
                        Wisconsin
                    -Milwaukee. She is completing a manuscript about race, public policy, and community
                    organizing on 
                        Chicago
                    's West Side after World War II.
         
         
            
               Swedes in the Twin Cities: Immigrant Life and 
                            Minnesota
                        's Urban Frontier. Edited by Philip J. Anderson and Dag Blanck. (
                        St. Paul
                    : 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society Press, 2001. Pp. x, 367. Notes, illustrations, figures, tables,
                    graphs, index. $34.95.)
            This is an account of immigrant life in 
                        Minneapolis
                     and 
                        St. Paul
                    , where Swedish imprints have been strong and lasting. The book is likely to be a joy to
                    read for those with Swedish roots or who feel Swedish-American pride, as well as for scholars and
                    students with interests and background in Scandinavian immigration to 
                        Minnesota
                    . For readers who do not trace their ethnicity to 
                        Sweden
                     and whose knowledge of that part of urban 
                        Minnesota
                     is limited, it will be difficult to keep track of the wealth and detail of the
                    information offered and to fit it into the context of urban frontier settlement and life from the
                    mid-nineteenth through the twentieth centuries. (There are no current maps of 
                  Minnesota, Minneapolis
               -
                        St. Paul
                    , or 
                        Sweden
                     to put geographical names in place, and there is no list of illustrations, maps,
                    tables, or figures).
            Primarily two reasons account for the book's differentiated appeal. First is the nearly
                    exclusive focus on Swedes. This approach seems old fashioned because scholarly interest in the study
                    of ethnicity is moving toward exploring the complexities that result when different immigrant groups
                    and their descendants define and redefine their identity in light of their success over time and in
                    relation to their neighbors. Second is the diverse nature of this collection of essays that started
                    out as conference presentations. In addition to the editors' introduction, which points to
                    the importance of Swedishness for the Twin Cities and to the need for further research, twenty-four
                    authors demonstrate in twenty-two chapters a wide variety of styles, detail, depth, and
                    understanding of the framework of their contributions. Ranging from the keynote address in interview
                    format by Nils Hasselmo and Patricia Hasselmo, "American Swedish Revisited," to
                    the more conventional article, "Libraries, Immigrants, and Communities," by Kermit
                    B. Westerberg, most of the essays concentrate on the end of the nineteenth century and the beginning
                    of  the twentieth century, when Swedish immigration peaked and
                    Swedish-American life flourished.
            The book is divided into four parts: aspects of urban settlement; institutional and creative life;
                    the language of immigrant experience; and Swedes in religion and politics. Although this arrangement
                    brings together articles that complement each other, the editors leave it to the readers to make
                    their own connections within sections and to other sections and especially to relate examples of
                    Swedish Americans in the Twin Cities to the general literature about immigration and ethnicity.
            MARIANNE S. WOKECK teaches at Indiana University-F'urdue University, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Her research and teaching interests are in immigration and ethnicity.
         
         
            
               The 
                            Kansas
                         City Investigation: Pendergast's Downfall, 1938-1939. By Rudolph H.
                    Hartmann. Edited by Robert H. Ferrell. (
                        Columbia
                    : University of 
                        Missouri
                     Press, 1999. Pp. ix, 191. Illustrations, appendix, notes, further reading, index.
                    $24.95.)
            In this age of media packaging of political candidates, the old-time political boss still intrigues
                    students of history and politics. All of us can profit from studies of these remarkable men and
                    their quests for power, control, and the big payoff. Indiana has produced its own variations (Thomas
                    Taggart comes to mind) on this theme, but it was 
                        Missouri
                     that produced one of the best examples of the rise and fall of a powerful political
                    machine. Few political bosses have merited the attention scholars have given to the Pendergast
                    brothers of 
                        Kansas
                     City. William M. Reddig's Tom's Town: 
                            Kansas
                         City and the Pendergast Legend (1947), Lyle Dorsett's The Pendergast Machine (1958), Lawrence H. Larsen and Nancy J. Hulston's Pendergast! (1997), and Robert H. Ferrell's Truman and
                        Pendergast (1999) have ably documented the local, state, and national significance of the
                    Pendergast machine. What more could be said? This volume, by Rudolph H. Hartmann, the special agent
                    for the U.S. Department of the Treasury who orchestrated the investigation that led to Thomas J.
                    Pendergast's 1939 conviction for income tax evasion answers the question: a great deal
                    more!
            The story of Robert H. Ferrell's discovery of Hartmanns manuscript provides inspiration for
                    historians laboring in musty archives and repositories. Ferrell chanced upon this
                    "absolutely hbrate, book-length manuscript" in the Henry Morgenthau papers located
                    in the Franklin D. Roosevelt Library in Hyde Park while researching his own book on Truman and
                    Pendergast (p. 1). "Opening box 388 of Morgenthau's general file was an
                    exhilarating experience—for here was what the dull researches of days, weeks, and
                    beyond… offer the historical researcher; here was what makes it all worthwhile"
                    (p. 5). Ferrell had found an account, written by a participant, of the downfall of  the Pendergast machine. After a brief introductory chapter in which the
                    extent of Pendergast's control of 
                        Kansas
                     City and 
                        Missouri
                     before 1939 is outlined, Hartmann recounts meticulously the story of the fall, from a
                    treasury department official's tip to 
                        Missouri
                     governor Lloyd C. Stark concerning a massive bribe accepted by Pendergast, to the
                    boss's indictment, conviction, and imprisonment.
            Pendergast was not the only fallen power broker in this drama. One of the strengths of
                    Hartmann's account is his intimate detailing of the role played by Thomas
                    Pendergast's henchmen, from the killing of John Lazia, the boss's "right
                    hand man" and "the dominant figure on the north side of 
                        Kansas
                     City, chiefly populated by Italians" to Robert Emmett O'Malley,
                    Pendergast's close friend and state superintendent of insurance, to Matthew s. Murray, the
                    director of public works of 
                        Kansas
                     City who was later named as 
                        Missouri
                    's state administrator for the Works Progress Administration (pp. 17, 13).
            This book relates the inner workings of a powerful political machine and adds to a discussion of the
                    interplay among local, state, and national New Deal politics.
            JAMES DUANE BOLIN, associate professor of history at Murray State University, Murray, 
                        Kentucky
                    , is the author ofBossism and Reform in a Southern City:
                                
                     Lexington, Kentucky
                  , 1880-1940 (2000).
         
         
            
               Fighting Bob La Follette: The Righteous Reformer. By Nancy C. Unger. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 2000. Pp. xiii, 393. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $39.95.)
            
               
                        Wisconsin
                    's Senator Bob La Follette, righteous reformer of the Progressive era, had feet
                    of clay. La Follette's Careers A ebater, attorney, congressman, governor, senator,
                    presidential candidate, and always a fighter on behalf of the "common
                    people"—have generally earned him high marks from historians. In Nancy C.
                    Unger's biography, however, the great spokesperson for democracy was a tyrant at home. The
                    critic of political machines ran one of his own. A governor who resisted the influence of the Badger
                    state's senior U.S. senator, attempted to manipulate 
                        Madison
                     when he became a senator. La Follette was possessed of a "messianic
                    self-perception" (p. 225) but low self-esteem (p. 149); he "perpetually believed
                    those with whom he disagreed were incapable of honorable motives" (p. 101); he was prone to
                    paranoia, vanity, exaggeration, and sanctimony. He habitually drove himself to the brink of collapse
                    but used ill health—often contrived—as a "handy rationalization in
                    the event that he los[t] an election" (p. 81). Unger relentlessly proves that La
                    Follette's "personal needs repeatedly superseded political and practical
                    expediency" (p. 235).
            Unger's thoughtful scrutiny of La Follette's childhood explores his Hoosier
                    mother's devastating charge that he embody the noble 
                    ideals of his deceased father. This impossible command helped create the flawed crusader. His
                    talented and politically savvy wife, Belle Case La Follette, is the focus of one excellent chapter
                    but thereafter nearly disappears from the narrative. Unger weaves just enough of the
                    children's lives throughout to present a nuanced view of La Follette, while reinforcing her
                    case about the cruel weight of paternal expectations.
            In the always interesting relationship between La Follette and Theodore Roosevelt, it is the latter
                    who comes off sympathetically. The senator routinely cancelled meetings with President Roosevelt,
                    wrote him "wheedling … condescending… and sometimes
                    insulting" letters (p. 195), and took "solace in … perceiving Roosevelt
                    as shallow, hypocritical, self-serving, and weak" (p. 149). Yet they did not always oppose
                    each other. They believed that "the supreme issue … is the encroachment of the
                    powerful few upon the rights of the many," (p. 103) and abhorred not the size of
                    corporations but "their efforts to control prices, stifle competition, and create
                    monopolies" (p. 121). Unger analyzes La Follette's devastating 1911 
                        Philadelphia
                     speech and delineates the baleful effects of the senator's supposed breakdown
                    on his presidential campaign.
            La Follette sought the presidency five times, beginning with the 1912 election. Unger condemns the
                    attempts as hopeless and a waste of the senator's time and money. La Follette hungered for
                    the highest office but never could stop seeing things in "black and white, not the
                    innumerable shades that color the real world. He believed he was right. Nothing else, including the
                    support of his party, mattered" (p. 225).
            And yet, despite this all-too-humanizing look at "Fighting Bob," it is difficult
                    not to admire him. His commitment to racial justice and women's suffrage, the rights of
                    workers and the poor, diplomacy before bloodshed in 1914, and to doing right regardless of the
                    consequences commands respect. Unger's readable and thoroughly researched biography
                    deserves a broad readership.
            STACY A. CORDERY is an associate professor of history at Monmouth College in Mon-mouth, 
                        Illinois
                    . She is concluding a biography of Alice Roosevelt Longworth, and her biography of
                    Theodore Roosevelt will be published in 2002.
         
         
            
               Dying in the City of the Blues: Sickle Cell Anemia and the Politics of Race and
                        Health. By Keith Wailoo. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 2001. Pp. ix, 338. Illustrations, notes, index. Clothbound, $34.95;
                    paperbound, $16.95.)
            "The history of sickle cell," writes Keith Wailoo, "is presented here as a
                    window on medicine, race, and American society" (p. 3). In this carefully contextualized
                    study of a particular disease—sickle cell anemia—in a particular place,
                    twentieth century 
                        Memphis
                    , Keith  Wailoo lays out a conceptual architecture
                    in which diseases become windows. As such, they offer a perspective on the
                    historical landscape. Wailoo uses both window and landscape to illuminate the complex forces that
                    brought sickle cell anemia, and "sicklers" themselves, from invisibility to
                    visibility—and, in part, back again.
            Sickle cell anemia is an inherited disease that principally afflicts individuals of African descent.
                    It makes sufferers lethargic, susceptible to leg ulcers, and prone to childhood infections. On
                    occasion, this chronic condition erupts into acute crisis, characterized by intense pain in the
                    joints, back, or abdomen. Historically, many sufferers died in childhood. Even today, most do not
                    live long lives. Although the disease was brought to Western medical attention in 1910 by James
                    Herrick, it attracted comparatively little attention until 1949 when Linus Pauling demonstrated that
                    it was a molecular disorder. It was then found to be transmitted not by the sufferer but by parents
                    who each had the recessive and asymptomatic sickle cell trait.
            Wailoo's choice of "landscape" in which to study sickle cell disease is
                    particularly fertile. How did sickle cell anemia become "visible" in a southern
                    city torn between a large and increasingly middle-class black population and white efforts to retain
                    control? Here, Wailoo draws from a wide array of secondary sources to sketch out a city emerging
                    from an agricultural past; a xenophobic city that sought to exclude caring for strangers but was
                    eventually enticed to become less provincial by the promise of an improved national image and of
                    increased federal funds. Black Memphians, Wailoo explains, drew solace from religion in this
                    segregated city and, though this is elaborated less than one might expect from his title, from the
                    distinctive blues music they created. He completes his picture by blending local medical
                    preferences, institutions, and disease ecologies into broader national medical trends, from early
                    twentieth-century medical education reform to late-twentieth-century HMOs.
            Wailoo sets the local history of sickle cell disease into this context. Initially, it was an
                    "invisible" disease; the first 
                        Memphis
                     case was reported only in 1926. This invisibility, he argues, resulted from converging
                    factors: endemic malaria, which masked sickle cell; the childhood death of many
                    "sicklers" from infection; the reluctance of clinically-oriented doctors to give
                    credit to laboratory-based medicine; and a strong prejudice that African Americans were, after all,
                    a diseased people. The 1929 arrival of pathologist Lemuel Diggs in 
                        Memphis
                     provides Wailoo with both a starting point for the disease's emerging
                    visibility and a significant local narrative thread. Not only did Diggs remain actively involved
                    with sickle cell throughout his long life (he died in 1995), he also leR the rich archival
                    collection that animates Wailoo's book. Through the 1930s, as Diggs worked to bring the
                    disease to public consciousness, federal pressures and opportunities brought better medical
                    facilities to 
                        Memphis
                    's black population. Then war experiences began to encourage some white
                    Memphians  to question racist ideology. As a result, when
                    Pauling held up sickle cell as a molecular disease in 1949, the citizens of 
                        Memphis
                     were somewhat better positioned to see it.
            In the 1950s, medical interest in the puzzle of sickle cell anemia brought researchers to the
                    segregated hospitals of 
                        Memphis
                     in search of "clinical material." Wailoo attributes the
                    transformation of invisible disease sufferers into visible research subjects (a move of which he is
                    suspicious) to the inclinations of academic medicine and a general trend towards
                    "commodifying" medical care. From the 1960s on, the story is increasingly national
                    as racial politics and politicking helped bring these patients' pain into sharp focus, as
                    was evident in TV, movies, and professional sports. Visibility peaked in the early 1970s when the
                    federal government selected sickle cell anemia for special attention and funding. Thereafter, the
                    patient-oriented focus blurred, as an array of groups claimed some piece of the disease and its
                    funding. (One might argue that the window, at this point, had become a mirror.) The recent growth of
                    HMOs has encouraged widening medical skepticism about pain, amplified by the fear, with racial
                    undertones, that alleviating pain would make addicts of sufferers. Consequently, the disease has
                    lost much of its visibility.
            Such local studies of disease act not simply as windows but as magnifying glasses, bringing into view
                    detail often invisible when examined from a greater distance. They must, however, be used with care.
                    Wailoo certainly knows, for example, that, while "numerous diseases have been used to draw
                    attention to the African American body," this has not been done, as he states,
                    "throughout history" (p. 1). Moreover, his critical remarks about the
                    hospital-based transformation of suffering patient into clinical material might suggest to those
                    unfamiliar with medical history that this was a new, race-based American trend rather than part of a
                    longer tradition reaching back to the treatment of the poor in eighteenth-century European
                    hospitals. There is also the problem of differentiating description from causality. There were, as
                    Wailoo indicates elsewhere, only about one hundred cases of sickle cell recorded by 1940: the
                    disease's "invisibility" thus extended well beyond 
                        Memphis
                    . How far can we argue that local landscapes shaped disease recognition or move from
                    them to generalizations about "the changing meaning of health and disease in
                    America" (p. 19)?
            These cautions aside, Keith Wailoo has given us a fine history of "dying in the city of the
                    blues." His approach reminds us that reductionist explanations rarely provide a sufficient
                    historical account, even of developments in "scientific" medicine.
            KIM PELIS, assistant professor in the Department of Medical History, Uniformed Services
                    University, 
                  Bethesda, Maryland
               , is writing a history of blood transfusion and acute trauma
                    care in Britain.
         
         
         
            
               Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation. By Joseph J. Ellis. (
                        New York
                    : Alfred A. Knopf, 2001. Pp. xi, 288. Notes, index. $26.00.)
            Joseph J. Ellis's title provides the central theme for his book Founding
                        Brothers uses the relationships between and among key political figures—George 
                        Washington
                    , Thomas Jefferson, James 
                        Madison
                    , Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    , and Alexander 
                        Hamilton
                    —to examine the most controversial political issues of the early national
                    period. Like brothers, these men had intense personal relationships with one another. But as in many
                    families there were bitter quarrels as well as mutual respect and admiration. Some of these
                    conflicts ended in stalemate, such as Franklin's and Madison's disputes over the
                    place of slavery in the new nation. Some resulted in compromise, such as Jefferson's famous
                    dinner party that helped resolve the question of the national capital's location. Others
                    had more complicated resolutions. The friendship between Jefferson and Adams withered under the
                    weight of party conflict but then revived toward the end of their lives. For 
                        Hamilton
                     and Aaron Burr, however, political antagonisms intensified personal dislike, producing
                    the famous encounter at Wee-hawken and Hamilton's death. At this time, the political was
                    personal in ways that are hard for us today to imagine.
            The strength of Ellis's work is his understanding of this remote political world, rendered
                    in prose that is the envy of other historians. With a delicious turn of phrase, he summarizes 
                        Hamilton
                    's personality: "
                        Hamilton
                     tended to regard worldly problems as personal challenges, and therefore as fixed
                    objects against which he could perform his own isometric exercises, which usually took the form of
                    ostentatious acts of gallantry" (p. 22). Another sentence encapsulates the difficult choice
                    posed to the electorate when Adams faced Jefferson for the presidency in 1796: "Choosing
                    between them seemed like choosing between the head and the heart of the American
                    Revolution" (p. 164). Discussing slavery, Ellis suggests that had 
                        Franklin
                     and 
                        Madison
                     joined forces they might have been "nearly unbeatable" (p. 113).
                    Instead, 
                        Franklin
                     urged abolition, while 
                        Madison
                     adopted an approach that Ellis calls "enlightened obfuscation" (p.
                    114). With a few well-chosen words, Ellis makes the personalities and debates of the era come alive.
            He claims to be writing "old-fashioned" (p. 12) political history. Certainly, his
                    emphasis on famous white men would suggest that he is doing just that. Much more than he admits,
                    however, his work has been influenced by recent scholarly trends. The very inclusion of a chapter on
                    slavery, for example, reflects his awareness of the wave of scholarship on the issue. The
                    chapter's title, "The Silence," a reference to Congress's
                    decision in 1790 essentially to remove the issue from the table for discussion, also echoes social
                    historians' pleas to make silences speak. Omissions, they have reminded us, are as
                    significant  as words or actions. In addition, Ellis's
                    chapter on "The Collaborators" departs from his emphasis on white men to explore
                    John Adams's interesting and complex relationship with his wife, Abigail. By granting
                    Abigail the status of full partner in John's political career, Ellis implicitly
                    incorporates the insight of women's historians; that is, that in an era when women could
                    not vote or hold public office they were nevertheless players in the political arena. If this is
                    old-fashioned political history, then let us have more of it.
            ROSEMARY ZAGARRI is professor of history at George Mason University, Fairfax, 
                        Virginia
                    , and the author of A Woman's Dilemma: Mercy Otis 
                            Warren
                         and the American Revolution (1995).
         
         
            
               The Agricultural Revolution of the 20th Century. By Don Paarlberg and Philip
                    Paarlberg. (Ames: 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 2000. Pp. xvi, 154. Illustrations, tables, figures, references,
                    index. $54.95.)
            "If a farmer from Old Testament times could have visited an American farm in the year
                    1900," Don Paarlberg and Philip Paarlberg proclaim at the outset, "he would have
                    recognized—and had the skill to use—most of the tools he saw: the hoe, the
                    plow, the harrow, the rake. If he were to visit an American farm today, he might think he was on a
                    different planet" (p. xiii). That transformation constitutes the book's central
                    theme. The authors' other objective is to deliver, albeit indirectly, a not-so-subtle
                    message to present-day agrarians, promoters of "sustainable" agriculture, and
                    others who share the "antiscience mood" (p. 40). As to whether or not the dramatic
                    changes of the twentieth century have been beneficial, the authors leave little doubt: "It
                    was a revolution not of swords and guns but of test tubes and microscopes. It was life saving rather
                    than life destroying. What a privilege to have witnessed and participated in this profound change,
                    and what a challenge now to record it" (p. 125).
            Written primarily for use in the classroom, this slim volume has much to offer. The book is organized
                    topically by "scientific disciplines"—mechanization, chemistry,
                    biology, communication, management, and policy. The authors stress convincingly that agriculture has
                    not developed in a steady, continuous flow but in stages, each requiring its own special focus. That
                    analytical strategy is particularly fruitful for the post-1945 era, which is given particular
                    emphasis. Discussions of the rise and fall of DDT, the remarkable impact of the internet, and the
                    origins and development of a world-wide agricultural think-tank, the International Research Network,
                    for example, will be of interest not only to college students but to farmers, specialists, and
                    general readers alike. The senior author often injects his own personal
                    experiences—growing up as a boy on a farm in Indiana and working as a high-ranking
                    official in the USDA—much to  the book's
                    betterment. More than forty marvelous photographs provide visual documentation that nicely
                    complements the text.
            Historians will be quick to recognize that this is a book written by economists and in large part for
                    economists. It pays little attention to the social ramifications (good or bad) of the agricultural
                    revolution and indeed incorporates none of the vast research of the current generation of
                    "new" rural historians. Nor does it do justice to agricultural policy. Curiously,
                    the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1933, the most important piece of legislation in
                    twentieth-century agricultural history, merits but one mention (p. 73). Equally surprising is the
                    lack of concern for regional variations. The authors also have a penchant for lists rather than
                    crisp transitions and well-developed paragraphs. Most noticeably, perhaps, the publisher has priced
                    the book well out of the reach of its intended audience. That by itself, whether or not one agrees
                    that agriculture has "changed, permanently, for the better, by all objective
                    measurement" (p. 10), will limit the book's readership.
            DAVID VAUGHT teaches American agricultural history at 
                        Texas
                     A&M University, College Station, 
                        Texas
                    . He is the author of Cultivating 
                            California
                        : Growers, Specialty Crops, and Labor, 1875–1920 (1999) and is
                    working on a history of rural life in 
                        California
                    's bonanza wheat era.
         
         
            
               Encyclopedia of Local History. By Carol Kammen and Norma Prendergast. (
                        Walnut Creek
                    , Calif.: AltaMira Press, 2000. Pp. xvi, 539. Illustrations, appendices.
                    $79.95.)
            As the entry for "encyclopedia making" in this volume notes, one of the most
                    noticeable trends in the field of local history over the past twenty years has been the
                    proliferation of encyclopedias for cities, states, and regions. Joining this expanding body of
                    reference material is the Encyclopedia of Local History. In a prefatory note, the
                    editors caution that the encyclopedia does not give the history of a specific place but rather is
                    intended as "a companion to aid local and regional historians, and many others interested
                    in the history of place, to think about and research that history" (p. ix). One of the
                    editors' goals is to encourage local history researchers to place their research within the
                    broader national and regional contexts; they hope to do this by informing their readers about the
                    emergence of fields of history and changing methodologies and suggesting that they consult classic
                    works.
            With more than five hundred pages of entries and appendices, this companion covers a wide variety of
                    topics, concepts, and resources. Indeed, one of the encyclopedia's major contributions is
                    to remind readers of the breadth and depth of local history possibilities through the sheer number
                    and diversity of entries. African American history, agricultural history, business and industrial
                    history, children's  history, environmental history,
                    family history, gay history, American Indian history, and women's history, for example,
                    only begin to suggest the fields of study found in this volume.
            The encyclopedia's major shortcoming is its unevenness, particularly in regard to its goal
                    of providing readers with contextual essays for both geographical regions and fields of history.
                    Entries for the Southwest, Midwest, and "Western history and local historians"
                    provide interesting and useful overviews for these regions, but missing are similar essays for New 
                        England
                    , the Mid-Atlantic states, and the South, or collectively, the eastern seaboard. Entries
                    for "urban history" and "community studies" reflect the wealth
                    of scholarship on cities and towns published over the last fifty years, but there is no similar
                    entry for "rural history," and the reader misses a similar outpouring of
                    scholarship examining continuity and change in rural America published during the last twenty-five
                    years. The volume's price of $79.95, substantially more than recent and more
                    voluminous encyclopedias for 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               , may limit its distribution. The absence of an
                    index, a vital guide to the wealth of information contained within the entries, also limits the
                    encyclopedia's usefulness as a reference volume.
            Despite these shortcomings, Encyclopedia of Local History will be the starting
                    place for anyone interested in researching and thinking about local history. With thousands of
                    entries and hundreds of useful cross-references and bibliographies, there is, as the editors write,
                    plenty of highly readable "good stuff to be found.
            MARK WETHERINGTON is director of the Filson Historical Society, 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               .
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
