
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 2, Issue 3, pages 107-162. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:2+issue:3+year:1906&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
      
      
         
         
             THE EARLY NEWSPAPERS OF INDIANA.
            BEGINNINGS AND DEVELOPMENT OF JOURNALISM.
             IN view of the illiteracy with which early Indiana 
                 
                 has (justly or unjustly) been
                    accredited, the ubiquity of the newspaper press, almost from the beginning, is a
                    matter for surprise. We have abundant evidence that in our pioneer population
                    there was a large element of intelligent and thinking men. The man of this type,
                    with the alert American sense of citizenship and with a lively curiosity about
                    the news of the world (whetted, perhaps, by his isolation), together with his
                    zeal for local development, demanded an organ to promote his political opinions,
                    to keep him in touch, in some fashion, with the outside world, and to advocate
                    the public wants. As a consequence, generally speaking, wherever he went and
                    established his rude beginnings of a civil and social life, the printing press
                    followed hard after.
            These journalistic beginnings are very difficult to trace because of the
                    meagerness and uncertainty of the records. Many a paper that had its little day
                    and was once part of the history of its community has passed utterly away,
                    leaving not a number nor even a memory in the minds of men to tell that it ever
                    existed; and the only proof of its existence often is indirect and obscure.
                    Others have changed their names, sometimes repeatedly, while still retaining
                    their newspaper identity, and in a study of the subject this is confusing.
            The sources for such a study are, mainly, the newspaper directories, local
                histories, 
                
                    United States
                
                    census reports, old gazetteers and newspaper files. The first of
                    these are of little historical value, and the local histories are not always
                    reliable and sometimes wholly silent as to the papers of their localities. The
                    most valuable of these sources are old newspaper files, for in them, though
                    fragmentary and incomplete, we find not only many of the publications
                    themselves, but allusions to and advertisements  of other contemporaneous papers. From these various
                    authorities I have compiled a list of about 250 periodicals, mostly newspapers,
                    published in this State prior to 1850. The list is, probably, not complete, nor
                    always accurate as to dates, etc., but is, I think, about as trustworthy as it
                    can be made from the source material available. To give anything like detailed
                    information about these many ventures is, of course, out of the question here,
                    but their chronological and, in some cases, geographical distribution may be
                    briefly given. For convenience they may be considered by decades.
            FIRST DECADE.—From 1800 to 1810
                the only publication in the Territory of 
                Indiana was the 
                    Indiana
                    Gazette and its successor, the Western Sun, of 
                
                    Vincennes
                
                . This paper was established in 1804 by Elihu Stout, who shipped a
                    printing outfit from 
                
                    Frankfort
                , 
                Ky., by way of the 
                
                    Kentucky
                , 
                Ohio and 
                Wabash rivers.
                This sheet antedated the first one in 
                
                    St. Louis
                 by four years, and seems to contest the claim to priority with the
                first in the Louisiana Purchase, as the earliest 
                
                    New Orleans
                
                papers were in 1804. These were Le Moniteur, a
                    French publication, and the 
                  
                      Louisiana
                  
                        Gazette. Of the first I have not found the exact date; the
                latter was first issued in July of the year given. The 
                    Indiana
                        Gazette was burned out and re-established as the Western Sun.
                    Subsequently it became The Western Sun and General Advertiser,
                        Jones' 
                            Vincennes
                         Sentinel, The 
                            Vincennes
                         
                        Indiana
                        
                            Patriot
                        , The Courant and 
                        
                            Patriot
                        
               , and, finally, The Western Sun again,
                    which name it still bears. Two or three in 
                
                        Ohio
                
                preceded this one.
            SECOND DECADE.—By 1810 the 
                
                    St. Louis
                
                paper, and ten in the English, French and Spanish languages that
                had been started in 
                    New Orleans
                
                , had all suspended. The one in Indiana
                Territory sturdily persisted
                    in living, in spite of the disaster by fire that overtook it almost in the
                    start, and during the second decade others came to keep it company. The record
                    we have of them is scant, but the following are mentioned in local histories and
                    elsewhere:
            
                The 
                    Corydon
                
                    Gazette, 1814; The Plaindealer and
                    Gazette, 
                
                    Brookville
                
                , 1815 or 1816; The Republican Banner and The 
                        Indiana
                    Republican, 
                
                        Madison
                
                , 1815 and 1816; The 
                    Indiana
                    Register, 
                
                        Vevay
                
                ,  1816; The
                Centinel, 
                
                    Vincennes
                
                , about 1817 (partial file in State Library); The 
                    
                        Vevay
                    
                    Reveille, 1817; The 
                    Indiana Oracle, 
                
                        Lawrenceburg
                , 1817 or 1819; The Intelligencer, 
                
                    Clark County
                 (probably 
                
                    Charlestown
                ), 1818; The Enquirer and 
                    Indiana Telegraph, 
                
                    Brookville
                , 1819. There is also vague mention of one, name not given,
                    conducted at 
                
                        Jeffersonville
                     in 1820 by George Smith and Nathaniel Bolton, who a little later
                founded the first 
                
                    Indianapolis
                 paper, the Gazette; and one at  
                
                    New Albany
                     by Ebenezer Patrick.
            THIRD AND FOURTH DECADES.—At the beginning of this article I said that wherever
                    the pioneer went the printing press followed hard after. This, perhaps, is an
                    over emphasis of the argument if we construe "hard after" as
                    immediately. Just at this point we have an interesting revelation as to the time
                    necessary for the creating of a journalistic field. It should be noted that the
                    dozen or so papers above given were confined to the south third of the State. In
                    1820, the whole central portion of our Territory was thrown open to settlers and
                    there was an influx of population that spread as far north as the 
                Wabash
                . There seem reasons why the newspaper press should spread
                    accordingly, but by my notes I find that while during the third decade the
                    number of papers was trebled, only four of them were in the "New
                    Purchase," as the newly opened country was called. These were the 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Gazette (see Note 1), The Western Censor and
                            Emigrant's Guide, which became the 
                            
                                Indianapolis
                             Journal, the 
                            
                                Lafayette
                         Journal, and the Pottawattomie and Miami Times, of 
                            Logansport
                     (Note 2). During these ten years many thousands of settlers had
                    come in, and there are reasons for believing that many papers were taken and
                    read, but for some reason the conditions seem not to have invited journalistic
                    ventures until the beginning of the next decade. In the early thirties they
                    began to spring up and during these ten years one hundred new papers came into
                    existence, by far the larger part of which were in the central and northern
                    localities, and scattered pretty well over these portions from 
                        Columbus
                     to 
                        Michigan City
                    , and from 
                        Henry
                     to 
                        Parke
                      counties. From 1840 to 1850 I find added to the list at least one hundred
                    and fourteen more, and of these comparatively few are located in the older parts
                    of the State (Note 3).
            
            As stated above, the number of periodicals that I have found trace of as existing
                    in the State prior to 1850 is something like 250. There were certainly some in
                    addition to these that have quite disappeared from mortal ken. Many were
                    ephemeral, and the mortality among them is indicated by a comparison of the
                    number I find with those given on the 
                
                    United States
                 census. This comparison can not be made through that medium until
                    1840, when the census first deals with the periodicals of the country. Up to
                    that period, according to my research, at least 134 had been established, but
                    the total number existing in the year mentioned is reported in the census as 79,
                    while against the 250 that had been in 1850 only 107 remained.
            Drawing still further upon these census reports, we find some interesting figures
                    touching the output of the press, not only as to increase but as to character.
                    In the beginning all periodicals were weekly newspapers. By 1840 a
                    differentiation had begun, and along with 69 weeklies there were 4 semi- and
                    tri-weeklies and 3 classified as "periodicals," presumably
                    literary. In the following decade the daily makes its appearance, and by 1850
                    there are 9 of these, along with 95 weeklies, 2 tri-weeklies and 1 semi-monthly,
                    with a total circulation of 63,138. In 1860 there were 186, with the political
                    weekly still in the ascendancy, but showing an intrusion into the field of 6
                    religious and 5 literary weeklies and monthlies, and with an aggregate
                    circulation of 159,381. During the sixties there was a much heavier rate of
                    increase, the census of 1870 showing 293 and a circulation of 363,542. The next
                    ten years the advance was more marked yet, and by 1880 had reached the number of
                    467, with a circulation of 661,111. By this time the dailies had increased to
                    40, and the monthlies to 27. The tables of 1890 show 680 newspapers and
                    periodicals, with a circulation of 1,292,418; those of 1900, 887, and a
                    circulation of 210,805, or an output during the entire year of 175,432,092
                    copies.
            One of the interesting phases of journalistic history is the differentiating
                    process above referred to, one aspect of which affords an important sociological
                    datum as indicating changes in the attitude of the public. Not only has the
                    weekly, in large measure, given place to the daily, and the daily fallen into
                    classes, as morning and evening, but there have been changes  of a deeper significance. In the earlier times the
                    journal was, first of all, a party organ, with all the rabid partizanship that
                    that implies when the party organ is in its worst estate. Even the news, where
                    possible, it seemed, was twisted to subserve party ends, and as a concomitant,
                    savage political rancor was the order of the day. The modern newspaper is not
                    all sweetness and light, but one could hardly imagine, for example, the 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Journal in its latter days admitting to its columns, as it
                    does in the issue of November 3, 1836, an open letter addressed to "the
                    Lying, Hireling Scoundels who do the dirty work as Editors of the Democrat." The pioneer reader was nothing if not a partizan,
                    and the acrimony with which both editors and contributors expressed themselves
                    is an index to the moral spirit of the times. Not only political differences but
                    personal animosities were aired in the public columns with a brutal rancor and
                    ferocious hate based, so far as one can see in the controversies, on little
                        cause.∗
            
            So little was the old journal a newspaper, in the modern sense, that local news,
                    or, indeed, any kind of news other than political was hardly thought worth the
                    space. The things that would now have peculiar historical value, had the papers
                    chronicled them, are provokingly scant. What local matter there was had no
                    separate department, but was usually scattered down the editorial column, and
                    matters that we now regard as of interest and importance often had little or no
                    mention. For example, one would think that the people, and, as a consequence,
                    the press, would have been very much interested in the admission of the State to
                    the Union, and in the convention that framed the first Constitution, at 
                
                    Corydon
                ;
                    but in the files of the Western Sun of that period (the only
                    paper of that date available) very little is said about the convention, and the
                    first conspicuous indication of statehood is the budding forth, more than a
                    month after the convention, of notices of candidates inaugurating the grand rush
                    for office. The startling earthquake shocks of 1811-'12, the equally
                    startling star shower of 1833, and other notable occurrences are dismissed 
                  
                     ∗Governor James B. Ray was a
                            past-master at this gentle art of vituperation, and an open letter of
                            his to James Noble, then 
                      
                                United States
                             Senator, published in the 
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Journal of March 3,1830, is a good example of the
                            fierceness I speak of.
               
                     with little more than a mere mention,
                    though they unquestionably occupied a large place in the public mind at the
                    times.
            The first venture, perhaps, in the local field was The
                    Locomotive, a little weekly, unique for that day, which was launched in
                1845 as an amateur performance by three apprentices in the 
                    Indiana Journal
                office, of 
                
                    Indianapolis
                . It died a couple of times, but was revived, enlarged a little,
                    more maturely edited, perhaps, and proved a "go." It was
                    wholly local and literary, with much of the society column feature, and,
                    according to Berry Sulgrove, "covered so well a field completely
                    neglected by the grave political organs that it soon began to pay." It
                    was, he adds, "the first paper that the women and girls wanted to read
                    regularly."
            The early newspaper did not, however, wholly neglect literature. Indeed, it
                    sometimes filled in with a disproportionate amount of reading matter of this
                    sort, not only from the writers of the day, but from those of the past, as in
                    the case of the 
                  
                      Ripley County
                         Index, which published in a serial form the whole of
                    "Pilgrim's Progress." Love stories, often serials,
                    not unfrequently occupied the first page. There was also, usually, the
                    time-honored Poets' Corner, affording a chance to budding rhymsters,
                    and showing that the muse, though humbly subordinate, was not quite forgotten.
                    In The Western Sun, of 
                
                    Vincennes
                , this latter department was headed the "Poetical
                    Asylum."
            THE INDEPENDENT PRESS.
            The development of the independent newspaper during the last third of a century
                    is one of the interesting journalistic phenomena. Prior to that period there
                    were in this State several so-called independent sheets, but these were, without
                    exception, I believe, simply neutral and not aggressively independent, as the
                    modern usage of that term implies. The most noteworthy of these was the Independent Press, established at 
                
                    Lawrenceburg
                
                in 1850, by Henry L. Brown and James E. Goble, and edited by Oliver
                    B. Torbett. From the salutatory and a long communication to the editor in the
                    first number on the needs of an independent press, one would think that the
                    paper had naturally risen out of a growing demand for such; but Mr. Brown, one
                    of the founders, now (or until recently) living in 
                
                    Indianapolis
                , explains that the independence of the new paper was largely
                    accidental. The Democratic field was already occupied; there was no
                    encouragement for a Whig organ in that county, and hence the remaining
                    alternative. This is one of the most interesting papers of its period, and its
                    superiority over the majority of its contemporaries alike in the matter of news,
                    literature and miscellany, doubtless accounted for the measure of success to
                    which it attained.
            The independent movement which avowedly takes an active part in all political
                    issues and makes a virtue of the "flopping" which so excites
                    the scorn of the staunch partizan, was inaugurated in this State by John H.
                    Holliday who, in 1869, established the 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        News. Being a man of ideas, and with the boldness to
                    experiment with these, he launched a paper that in several respects occupied its
                    own field. It is supposed to have been the only two-cent paper, outside,
                    possibly, of 
                        Chicago
                    , that existed west of the 
                Allegheny mountains.
                    Prior to the war cheap papers had sprung up, but the advance in cost of
                    material, particularly of white paper, in the war period, had driven them out.
                    It was made an afternoon paper because day labor cost less than night work; and,
                    finally, it was made an independent paper because Mr. Holliday preferred and
                    believed in that kind of a newspaper. It may be added that the proprietor
                    secured for it the Associated Press dispatches, which advantage no previous
                    evening publication here had enjoyed.
            Just how far the well-known success of the News is attributable
                    to its political independence and how much to good business management is not
                    obvious, but its success in the independent field has doubtless been a strong
                    influence in developing the movement. Others followed the lead of this pioneer
                    in its venture, and that they met a "felt want" would seem to
                    be indicated by the fact that by 1903, according to Lord &
                    Thomas's Pocket Directory of that year, there were in the State no less
                    than 219 independent journals, not counting those that professed a qualified
                    independence, such as "Republican-Independent" and
                    "Democratic-Independent." These are scattered pretty well over
                    the State, and 185 of them (34 not being returned) had an aggregate circulation
                    of 266,103.
            
            OTHER CHANGES AND INDUSTRIAL STATISTICS.
            Other notable changes in the journalistic character and tone have grown up,
                    revealing changes in the modes of thought of the people and a broader
                    development. Whatever other objectionable elements have come to the fore in
                    modern newspapers of a certain type, politics as a controlling force and as an
                    excuse for the existence of an organ no longer occupies the prominence that it
                    once did. The function of the political journal is subordinate to that of the
                    newspaper, and along with this change goes a marked melioration of the political
                    rancor. As a purveyor of news and of opinion the journal of to-day in its
                    influence undoubtedly outweighs all other literary agencies in the general
                    effect upon public thought—which certainly will not seem an
                    over-statement when we consider that the aggregate circulation of the newspaper
                    in Indiana at the last census amounted to one paper for each 1.19 persons.∗
            
            Another side of the newspaper business may be referred to. By the census of 1900
                    the 887 publications mentioned were represented by 4,084 wage-earners, whose
                    aggregate wages for the year amounted to $1,784,059. There was a
                    further investment in 25,546,899 pounds of paper, and the total income from
                    advertisements, subscriptions and sales was $3,912,514. Add to this,
                    as the value of land, buildings, printing material, etc., $4,792,139,
                    and we get an approximate idea of the industrial importance of this branch of
                    the publishing business. These figures also include the class of publications
                    called periodicals, but these, by comparison with the newspapers, are
                    inconsiderable. They do not include book or job printing.
            HUMORS OF PIONEER JOURNALISM.
            The introduction of the pioneer press into the wilderness was marked by peculiar
                    hardships owing to the remoteness from sources of supplies and general lack of
                    facilities. The transporting hither of a printing plant was of itself no small
                    undertaking, and stories of mishaps and difficulties have survived. When The Western Register came to 
                
                    Terre Haute
                     in 1825, it was by wagon over primitive roads, and the whole kit,
                    press, type 
                  
                     ∗In newspaper reading, as given by the
                      census tables of 1900, 
                      Indiana ranks sixteenth in the Union.
               
                     and paper for the first issue, was upset in
                    fording a stream. The consequent delay in the paper's initial
                    appearance was explained as due to "circumstances beyond our
                    control"—a comprehensive and oft-used excuse which the first
                    printers probably kept "standing." This was only the beginning
                    of this journal's difficulties. Often the stores and shops of the town
                    had to be ransacked for ordinary wrapping paper to print on; sometimes only a
                    half sheet was sent out, and sometimes no paper could be issued at all. The
                    first paper in 
                        Martinsville
                    , printed on a small wooden press, also frequently depended upon
                    store paper.∗ When Milton Gregg bought a
                second-hand print shop at 
                
                    Brookville
                 to start The Western Statesman at 
                
                    Lawrence-burg
                , he sent "a wild Hoosier teamster" for the
                    outfit, and the latter, laying a quilt upon the floor, emptied thereon in one
                    pile the various cases of type, both body and job. It was three weeks before
                    Gregg's printers got the pi distributed. The first paper in 
                
                        Rushville
                    , The Dog-Fennel Gazette(!),
                    published by one Wickham in
                    1832, seems, from the unique name bestowed upon it, to have been consciously
                    grotesque. What the eccentric father of it used as bed for his press we are not
                    told, but it is affirmed that for his pressing power he utilized a heavy pole,
                    one end of which was attached to a tree. Placing the form under the pole near
                    the tree, so as to get a good leverage, he would squeeze off his impressions.
                    The sheets were distributed printed on one side, and his patrons, after reading,
                    would return the paper to be printed on the other side for another issue. This
                    quite equals the old jest among the fraternity about sheets that are worked with
                    swamp mud on a cider press. A copy of The Dog-Fennel Gazette
                    would be an interesting find.
            That these early ventures in the journalistic field should have exercised their
                    function in a primitive manner and made a rather sorry shift generally is not
                    surprising, the wonder, indeed, being that the mortality among them was not
                    greater. In The 
                        
                            Bloomington
                         Post for August 30, 1832, nearly three editorial 
                  
                     ∗In the 
                         
                             Indianapolis
                          Journal of May 8, 1828, I find mention of a paper
                      mill at 
                      
                          Madison
                      
                      . A futile attempt to establish one in 
                      
                          Richmond
                             in 1828 was followed in 1830 by a successful venture.
                            (Young's 
                                Wayne County
                            , p. 389.) The 
                      
                          United States
                       Census returns of 1840 report three of these mills in the
                      State—in 
                          Jefferson
                      , 
                      
                          Franklin
                       and 
                      
                          Wayne
                       counties (
                      
                          Madison
                      ,
                      
                          Brookville
                      
                      and 
                      
                          Richmond
                      .) The aggregate capital invested is given as
                            $68,739, and the value of production for the last year as
                            $86,457.
               
                     columns are given to the status of the
                    press. It is bitterly complained that "interlopers," not
                    practical printers but "quack doctors, half-read lawyers and pretended
                    literary characters," had invaded the journalistic field to the
                    demoralization alike of the journal and of the legitimate printers'
                    chances, which latter are represented as slim at best.
            To begin with, the munitions of war for their crusade against darkness was an
                    exceedingly uncertain quantity, for though their subscription rates were high
                    compared with the news weekly of to-day, and the advertising patronage was often
                    liberal, the editor shared with business men at large the embarrassments of
                    scant cash and delayed payments. Indeed, the sentiment seemed to prevail that
                    the newspaper man and the doctor could wait for their pay a little longer than
                    any one else. We find that rather extraordinary inducements were offered for
                    advance payments, and the clause as to arrearages is one of the proofs of the
                    frequency of arrearages. The acceptance of all sorts of produce, from cordwood
                    to maple sugar, was common, and if we may judge by the long continuance of the
                    custom, yet more in vogue with printers than with merchants. A notice to be
                    found in an old number of the 
                
                    Brookville
                
                
                    Indiana
                    American announced that it will accept "the
                    following currency at par, for subscription or advertising, to-wit: Maple Sugar,
                    Molasses, Country Linen, Jeans, Chickens, Butter, Cheese, Wood, Dried Apples,
                    Dried Peaches, Corn, Wheat, Flour, Cornmeal, Pork, Beef, Oats, Hay, Bacon, or
                    most any other mechanical production," and The 
                        
                            Bloomington
                         Post of October 26, 1838, advertises that
                    "persons expecting to pay for their papers in produce must do so soon,
                    or the cash will be exacted. Pork, Flour, Corn and Meal will be taken at the
                    market prices. Also, those who expect to pay us in firewood must do so
                    immediately—we must have our wood laid in for the winter before the
                    roads get bad." The same paper for July 6, 1838, after repeated appeals
                    to creditors, resorts to this heroic measure:
            "THE BLACK LIST.—We have forwarded accounts to several persons indebted to
                    us for Job Work, Subscriptions, etc., and we are sorry to say that they pay
                    little or no attention to them. We take this opportunity to inform those
                    gentlemen that if they any longer neglect to remit to us the amount of our
                    accounts we  will forthwith place their
                    names in bold capitals on the ‘black
                    list,’ as scoundrels and swindlers."
            Three weeks later the editor began his black list, but whether or not it had the
                    desired effect is a matter lost to history.
             Akin to this is the wail of the 
                 
                     Madison
                               
                 Indiana Republican for July 26, 1817, which says:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        "Mr. Clerk, I wish you to discontinue my dunning advertisement. My debtors pay no attention to
                                    it. Be so good as to inform the Sheriff that I wish to see him.
                        
                                    Yours truly,
                                    "B. YOUNG."
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            Nor was this all, nor, perhaps, the most serious of the printer's
                    troubles. His most avowed function was to supply people with the news, and the
                    difficulties in obtaining the news were most discouraging. For example, when the 
                
                    Indianapolis
                
                    Gazette was started there was no regular mail to the town, and
                    for the first three or four months of its existence it had to appear irregularly
                    and as it could secure matter. Its launching, indeed, seems to have been a cause
                    in determining the first mail line, for soon thereafter the citizens of the
                    place held a meeting to consider the situation, decided upon establishing a
                    route to 
                        Connersville
                    , sixty miles away (there to connect with the government service),
                    and themselves employed a man to carry the mail and open a post-office. After
                    the government established a regular route the delays necessitated by bad roads
                    were multiplied by indirect and circuitous carriage. An editorial in the Western Censor and Emigrant's Guide about that time
                    complains that its exchanges, instead of coming as directly as possible, were
                    carried by roundabout routes and got to their destination usually two weeks
                    later than need be, and this fortnight, added to the several days that
                    "need be" by the best possible service of the day, gives an
                    idea of the antiquity of most of the "news" when it reached
                    the readers. The great source of the foreign intelligence was, of course, the
                    exchange which had already served its readers at points farther east or south,
                    and so the interior readers were a stage further removed from the actual events
                    of the world.
            Of the exchanges drawn upon, that most frequently quoted is Niles' Weekly Register, a most excellent and valuable
                    compendium of news and history, which comprised a wide range of subjects. This
                    periodical, a weekly publication of sixteen octavo pages,  was issued at 
                
                        Baltimore
                     from September 7, 1811, to August 27, 1836, by Hezekiah Niles, and
                    from that date to June 27, 1849, was continued by a son, W. O. Niles. Among the
                    journals of that day it stood alone as a repository of all sorts of information
                    proper to a paper of its kind. It is to-day one of our most valuable collections
                    of records, and as such is prized by historians. Fifty bound volumes of the work
                    may be found in the State Library.
            NAMES OF PAPERS.
             The names of papers in 
                 Indiana have been exceedingly varied, but a dozen or so
                    have been distinct favorites. Of these, Herald and Gazette are perhaps most in
                    evidence, with Democrat, Times, Sentinel, Journal, and (a little later)
                    Republican, following hard after. Banner, Register, Chronicle, Courier,
                    Statesman and Observer also make something of a showing. The name Telegraph
                    appears at least three years before the introduction of Morse's method
                    of telegraphy, and a number of Republicans were in the field years before the
                    birth of the Republican party, which in turn gave name to so many papers. Of
                    unusual names a list might be given, a few of which are The Comet,
                        The Western Constellation, The Corkscrew, The Dog-Fennel Gazette, The Budget
                        of Fun, The Whig Rifle, The Coon-Skinner, The Locomotive, The Busy World,
                        The Indiana Blade, The Chrono-type, The Broad Axe of Freedom, The
                        People's Friend and The Hoosier. The first
                    one with the last-mentioned name was launched at 
                 
                        Greencastle
                     by ex-Governor James B. Ray and W. M. Tanne-hill, as early as 1833.
            NOTES.
            1.—The 
                Indianapolis
                Sentinel is often referred back to the Gazette of 1822 as its beginning, but this is certainly by a liberal
                construction as to what constitutes newspaper identity. The 
                    Indiana
                        Democrat, which immediately succeeded the Gazette,
                    was not a continuance of the latter sheet. Smith and Bolton, of the Gazette, dissolved partnership in 1829, and a letter from each in the
                    issue of July 23, sets forth the reason. Smith wished to support Andrew Jackson.
                    The Gazette had from the beginning been non-partizan, and
                    Bolton wished to continue this policy. Smith further announces himself as one of
                    several who proposed  to establish
                    "in this place" a new paper, to be called The
                        Jack-sonian. No paper by this name appeared, but The
                            Indiana
                            Democrat, occupying the proposed field, did appear in 1830, and
                    at once swallowed up the Gazette. It thus had a separate
                    origin and was brought into existence for a new purpose. Bolton was subsequently
                    one of the proprietors of this paper. Even the relationship between the Democrat and the Sentinel, which succeeded
                    it in 1841, is by no means so clear as is generally supposed, for the first
                    issue of the Sentinel is Vol. I, No. 1, and in the
                    "prolegomena" of that number it is evidently regarded as the
                    launching of a new paper.
            2.—The Northwestern Pioneer, established at 
                South Bend
                     in 1831 by John D. and Joseph H. Defrees, is often cited as the
                first paper north of the Wabash river
                . It should be noted
                that the Pottawattomie and Miami Times, started at 
                
                    Logansport
                 by John Scott in 1829, was north of, or at least on the north bank
                of the Wabash
                . There are various loose statements as to the dates of founding of
                    several papers now existing. The 
                        
                            Richmond
                         Palladium, dating back to 1831, claims to be the oldest,
                    barring the Western Sun. Earlier dates are claimed by the 
                        
                            Vevay
                        
                        Revielle, 1817; the 
                            
                                Terre Haute
                             Express, 1823; the 
                                
                                    Lafayette
                                  Journal, 1829; and perhaps by others. It may be noted that
                    of the three papers last mentioned, none is included by those names in the list
                    of 1833, given below. The Western Register, of 
                
                    Terre Haute
                , was established in 1823, but had either ceased to be or had
                changed to The 
                    Wabash
                    Courier by 1833, as that is the only 
                
                    Terre Haute
                 paper given in said list. The Courier probably
                    became the Express in 1840, as the name of Thomas Dowling is
                    connected with both of them. The Register, of 1823, was
                    founded by John W. Osborne, one of the most notable of the early journalists of
                    Indiana
                .
             3.—What is probably the first directory of 
                 Indiana newspapers ever
                    compiled is to be found in a gazetteer of 1833, published by Douglass &
                    Maguire, proprietors of the 
                        Indiana Journal. This table,
                    compiled by newspaper men, whose exchange list seems to have included all the
                    papers of the State as they appeared, was doubtless not only correct but
                    practically a full list of the publications then in existence. As such it is a
                    document of value, and I give it in full:
            
             A. TABLE CONTAINING A LIST OF NEWSPAPERS IN THE STATE OF 
                 INDIANA,
                    PLACES WHERE PUBLISHED, AND THE NAMES OF THE PUBLISHERS.
            
               
                   Indiana Journal, 
                   
                       Indianapolis
                   , Douglass & Maguire.
               
                   
                       Indiana Democrat, 
                   
                       Indianapolis
                   , Morrison & Bolton.
               
                   Western Times, 
                   
                       Centreville
                   , Hall & Boon.
               
                  
                      
                          Fort Wayne
                       Sentinel, 
                   
                       Fort Wayne
                   , Tigar & Noel.
               
                  
                      
                          Richmond
                       Palladium, 
                   
                       Richmond
                   , D. P. Holloway.
               
                   
                       
                           Liberty
                        Portfolio, 
                   
                       Liberty
                   , Leviston & Walters.
               
                   Star and Sentinel, 
                   
                       Philomath
                   , S. Tizzard.
               
                   
                       Indiana American, 
                   
                       Brookville
                   , C. F. Clarkson.
               
                   
                       Indiana Palladium, 
                   
                       Lawrenceburg
                   , D. V. Cully.
               
                   Western Statesman, 
                   
                       Lawrenceburg
                   , D. S. Major.
               
                  
                     
                         Switzerland
                      Monitor, 
                   
                       Vevay
                   , R. Ransdall.
               
                  Weekly Messenger, 
                   
                       Printer's Retreat
                   , Keen
                        & Child.
               
                   
                       Indiana Republican, 
                   
                       Madison
                   , Arion & Lodge.
               
                   
                       
                           New Albany
                        Gazette, 
                   
                       New Albany
                   , Henry Collins.
               
                   Western Courant, 
                   
                       Corydon
                   , Ladd & Jones.
               
                   
                       
                           Paoli
                        Times, 
                   
                       Paoli
                   , W. A. Bowles.
               
                  Annotator, 
                   
                      Salem
                        , Allen & May.
               
                   Far West, 
                   
                       Bloomington
                   , Brandon & Deal.
               
                  
                      
                          Columbus
                       Chronicle, 
                   
                       Columbus
                   , L. L. Dunkin.
               
                   Western Sun, 
                   
                       Vincennes
                   , Elihu Stout.
               
                  
                      
                          Vincennes
                       Gazette, 
                   
                       Vincennes
                   , R. Y. Caddington.
               
                  
                      Wabash Courier, 
                   
                       Terre Haute
                   , Thomas Dowling.
               
                  
                      Wabash
                      Herald, 
                          Rockville
                        , Marts & Comingore.
               
                  
                      
                          Lafayette
                       
                      Free Press, 
                   
                       Lafayette
                    
                   , J. B. Semans.
               
                  
                      Wabash
                      Mercury, 
                   
                       Lafayette
                    , R. R. Houston.
               
                  
                     
                         Cass County
                      Times, 
                   
                       Logansport
                   , Scott & Burns.
               
                  Record, 
                      Crawfordsville
                        , I. F. Woods.
               
                  Federal Union, 
                   
                      Knightstown
                        , James Silver.
               
                  Democratic Republican, 
                   
                      Shelbyville
                        , Churchman & Kendall.
            
            ADDENDA.
            Since writing the above I have found a copy of the Western
            Eagle, 
                
                    Madison
                . This paper dates back to 1813, and probably was the second one
                    established in Indiana Territory.
             Perhaps the only copy in existence of the first paper issued in 
                 
                     Indianapolis
                  (No. 1 of the 
                     
                         Indianapolis
                      Gazette), is in the possession  of Mr. George T. Porter, of 
                 
                     Indianapolis
                 . In the 
                     
                         Indianapolis
                      Press, December 19, 1899, is an interesting account of
                    this pioneer sheet, with matter quoted from its columns.
            The 
                
                    Indianapolis
                 Gazette from 1824 to its period of ceasing, and also the
                        Western Censor and Emigrant's Guide (complete),
                the forerunner of the 
                    Indiana Journal, are in the City Library
                of 
                
                    Indianapolis
                
                . This library has by far the fullest collection in existence of 
                
                    Indianapolis
                
                newspapers. Locked in these files is matter of inestimable value in
                    its relation to the development of the city. Unfortunately, the incomplete and
                    wholly inadequate catalogue furnished by the library is practically no guide to
                    the collection, and does not even indicate the presence in it of some of its
                    rarest possessions; hence the usefulness of the collection is by no means what
                    it might be.
            GEORGE S. COTTMAN.
         
         
            THE FIRST PRINTERS IN INDIANAPOLIS.
            GEORGE SMITH AND NATHANIEL BOLTON.
            
                From The 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     Sentinel, August 27, 1899.
                
            GEORGE SMITH was born in 
                
                Lancaster
            , 
                
                    Pa.
                , and while quite young learned the printing trade with one of
                    the Bradfords, the colonial printers in 
                Pennsylvania
                . In the earlier part of this century he removed from 
                
                    Philadelphia
                 to 
                
                    Chillicothe
                , O., and while living there married Mrs. Nancy Bolton, a widow,
                    whose maiden name was Cox. She was a sister of Nathaniel Cox, one of the early
                    pioneers and hunters of 
                
                    Indianapolis
                
                . "Uncle Nat Cox," as he was familiarly called,
                    was a carpenter by trade, but was excessively fond of hunting, and in his day
                    had no equal in central 
                    Indiana as a first-class "shot" with
                    the rifle, the only species of firearms then in use in the West.
            Mrs. Bolton's only child by her first husband was Nathaniel Bolton, who
                was born in 
                
                    Chillicothe
                , 
                
                    O.
                , July 25, 1803. Elizabeth Smith, his half-sister, was born in
                    the same town February 17, 1809. Her father had become the owner of a printing
                    office, which was, almost always, in the same house in which they lived. Mr.
                    Smith was a man of fair education, very industrious,  a master of the art of printing, a good writer, of
                    untiring energy, and was well liked by all of his acquaintance. Like all
                    printers of that period and some of later years, he was by force of
                    circumstances and disposition unsettled as to location, often going from one
                    town to another, not only as a mere journeyman printer, but as the owner and
                    publisher of his own newspaper.
            The daughter Elizabeth grew up to be a remarkably intelligent and observing
                    woman, of clear memory, full of wit and humor, whose conversations relating to
                    the early settlement of 
                
                    Indianapolis
                 were always interesting to listeners. A short time before her death
                    she noted down in a book many interesting particulars of her earlier life, and
                    it is from this book, now in possession of her daughter, Mrs. Maria Goldsberry
                    Tanner, of this city, widow of the late Major Gordon Tanner, and mother of
                    George G. Tanner, of the firm of Tanner & Sullivan and late surveyor of
                    customs at 
                
                    Indianapolis
                , that many of the incidents herein related have been obtained by
                    the kind permission of Mrs. Tanner. Elizabeth's earliest recollections
                    were of the printing office, wherein most of her childhood was spent. She was
                    probably the first female typesetter in all the western country. When she was
                    about three or four years old her father moved to 
                
                    Worthington
                , a small place
                    near 
                        Columbus
                    , 
                
                    O.
                , and then back again to 
                
                    Chillicothe
                . At this place the family lived quite a while, Nathaniel going to
                    school to a Presbyterian minister, receiving some instruction. His practical
                    education, however, was in the printing office. The little girl took great
                    delight in helping her father and brother in the printing office as much as her
                    age would permit.
            In 1820 Mr. Smith caught the emigration fever. The "new
                    purchase" of land from the Indians in the neighboring State of Indiana
                    was then attracting much attention, and Mr. Smith determined to leave 
                
                    Ohio
                 and try his fortune in the Hoosier State. At 
                
                    Cincinnati
                 he arranged for passage down the 
                Ohio river on
                    the steam packet General Pike, but was compelled to cancel the contract and change his plans of
                    travel by reason of the timidity of Mrs. Smith, who, on first seeing a
                    steamboat, declared she would not go aboard of what seemed to her a dangerous
                    craft. While there they all visited Wells's type foundry, which was a
                    novelty and a great object of interest to Nathaniel and Elizabeth,  they witnessing for the first time the process of
                    making moveable types.
            Other means of transportation than that of steamboat was obtained, Mr. Smith
                    arranging for the accommodation of his own and another family on an
                Allegheny river timber boat from 
                Olean, 
                N.Y.
                , and on
                    this they floated down the river quite comfortably. The rude craft had
                    fireplaces at each end large enough to do their cooking. Uncle Nat Cox steered
                    the vessel. On reaching 
                Ghent, 
                Ky., the rough weather compelled a "tie
                    up," and the occupants went ashore, where they were entertained a few
                    days by a family of former acquaintance in 
                Chillicothe
                . The storm abating, they returned to the boat and floated down to 
                
                    Jeffersonville
                 without further delay or trouble.
             At 
                 
                     Jeffersonville
                  a wagon was hired in which they proceeded to 
                 
                     Corydon
                 , the then seat
                    of government of the new State. Not liking the place, Mr. Smith arranged for a
                    partnership with a Mr. Brandon, and, returning to 
                 
                     Jeffersonville
                 , they opened a book and job printing office, in which Mr. Smith
                 made more than expenses. His objective point on first coming to 
                 Indiana was the
                    capital of the State, the location of which had in 1820 been settled by the
                    commissioners fixing it at the junction of Fall creek and 
                 White river
                 , and naming the town 
                 
                     Indianapolis
                 . The family remained in 
                 
                     Jeffersonville
                  during the summer of 1821, awaiting the announcement of the first
                    sale of lots at the capital. The lots having been surveyed and laid out, the
                    first sale was held in October, 1821. Mr. Smith attended this sale, walking all
                    the way there and back. He purchased two lots, on one of which stood a buckeye
                    cabin built by a squatter, who, getting homesick, deserted it and returned to
                    his home in 
                 
                     Kentucky
                 .
            Some weeks after Mr. Smith's return he removed the family and his little
                printing office and some "plunder" to 
                
                    Indianapolis
                
                , the journey being a remarkable one. Inside of a large four-horse
                    wagon was stored the type, cases, stands, press and other materials of a
                    primitive printing office, a meager lot of household effects and wearing
                    apparel, and the family, or rather such of them as rode, the male members
                    walking most of the way. The route was over a "blazed trail."
                    The only towns they passed through were 
                
                    Paoli
                
                , 
                    Bedford
                 and 
                
                    Brownstown
                    . The remaining portion of the journey was made through an unbroken
                         wilderness of dense growth, wholly
                    unsettled. They camped out two nights during a heavy snowstorm and suffered
                    other privations.
            Late one cold, stormy night, about two weeks before Christmas, they drew up in
                    front of their cabin and took possession. With plenty of wood, they soon had a
                    good fire and their first supper in 
                
                    Indianapolis
                . This was served on a store goods box for a table, with smaller
                    boxes for seats, there being but one chair in the house. The little cabin had
                    but one room, which served for the printing office, bed-room, dining-room and
                    kitchen. Elizabeth describes her bedstead as having been made of two old sugar
                    troughs with rails and short boards laid crossways, on which was placed a good
                    feather bed "made up nice." The father and mother's
                    bed was composed of two buckeye logs and rails, overlaid with brush. With the
                    printing press and stands for two sets of type cases but little room was left
                    for lodging, cooking and eating; but they managed to make themselves
                    comfortable, though compactly housed. A Dr. Scudder, who had his office in a
                    near-by cabin, kindly let them fix up a bed there for Uncle Nat Cox and a
                    journeyman printer who had been hired for a while.
            Thus was inaugurated the first printing office from which was issued the 
                
                    Indianapolis
                 Gazette, the first newspaper ever published in the new
                town of 
                
                    Indianapolis
                , the proprietor of which was the editor, publisher and printer all
                    combined in himself. Writing his own editorials, he would then set them up in
                    type, make up the forms and work off the paper on a two-pull Ramage hand press.
                    The forms were inked by hand with buckskin balls stuffed with wool and greased
                    with coon oil to soften them when not in use. The composition rollers were then
                    unknown. The first or outside forms of two pages were printed the first part of
                    the week and the corresponding inside forms were struck off usually on Friday
                    and the paper circulated Saturday morning.
             Nathaniel Bolton had remained in 
                 
                     New Albany
                  to finish some work on printing the laws of the State. After
                 completing this job, he found a man going to 
                 
                     Indianapolis
                  with a lot of horses, who allowed him to ride one, and on reaching
                    there he joined Mr. Smith in the work of the publication of the Gazette, and afterward became first a partner and then sole
                    proprietor.
            
            The first residence and printing office herein described was on Maryland
                     street, just below the crossing of Missouri street, and between that place and the old cemetery Mr. Smith
                    opened up a fine sugar camp.
            During the winter of 1821-'22 Elizabeth Smith, then about thirteen years
                    old, learned to set type, and did considerable work in assisting her father and
                    brother in getting out the paper. In 1824 her father bought a lot cornering on 
                        Georgia and Tennessee streets, on which now stands St. John's Cathedral and
                    other buildings connected with that parish. On this lot he built a house into
                    which he moved the printing office and residence. After this removal Elizabeth
                    quit typesetting.
            This same year Washington and Meridian streets were opened and the trees, stumps and
                    undergrowth removed. The first courthouse was built about the same time, and in
                    it was held the first legislative session at the new capital.
            Mr. Smith soon after became a judge of the 
                Marion
                     circuit court, retiring from the printing business and surrendering
                    the proprietorship of the Gazette to his step-son, Nathaniel
                    Bolton. As a judicial officer he served with great ability and fairness. Mr.
                    Smith died April 10, 1836, after a lingering illness, aged fifty-two. According
                    to his last request he was buried at Mt. Jackson, the name
                    given to the farm on which he last resided. The remains were afterward removed
                    to Greenlawn cemetery.
            Mr. Bolton succeeded to the ownership of this farm, and here he and his wife,
                    Mrs. Sarah T. Bolton, kept a tavern for nine years. At the same time Mr. Bolton
                    kept up his journalistic work, while Mrs. Bolton wrote many of her earliest
                    poems during the leisure hours from the labors incident to the farm and tavern.
                    In the fall of 1845 Mr. Bolton sold to the State the farm as a site for the
                    Indiana Hospital for the Insane, the selling price being $5,300.
            The difficulties of obtaining news at the commencement of Mr. Smith's
                newspaper enterprise were great. The nearest post-office was 
                
                    Connersville
                , sixty miles away. The enterprising publisher however, established
                    a private mail, employing a man to go there every four weeks to bring the
                    letters and newspapers.
            In December, 1822, President James Monroe sent to Congress one of his short
                messages, a copy of which reached 
                
                    Indianapolis
                
                     in February, 1823, and was published in
                    instalments in two or three succeeding numbers of the Gazette.
            
             Soon after a regular 
                 
                     United States
                  mail route was established, and then mails reached 
                 
                     Indianapolis
                 
                 from the East every two weeks, unless detained by high waters.
            Mr. Smith's father brought in a wagon from 
                
                Springfield
                , 
                
                    O.
                
                , driven by himself, the white paper on which the first issues
                    of the Gazette were printed. After Mr. Bolton became sole
                    proprietor in 1824 the Gazette office was removed, first to a
                    house on the corner of Washington and Tennessee streets on the State House square, and then to the south side of 
                        Washington
                     street a few doors west of the court-house.
             When I came to 
                 
                     Indianapolis
                 
                 in 1837, a boy of nine years of age, I made the acquaintance of Mr.
                    Bolton and his partner, John Livingston, the proprietors of the Democrat, and for a few years worked in their printing office as a
                    roller boy, printer's devil and carrier of the paper. At that time the
                    old double-pull Ramage press was still in the office, and many a time have I
                    inked the forms thereon, as a roller boy. This work was then done with rollers
                    make of glue and molasses, in the molding of which I always had a hand. During
                    my employment I made several trips to the Mt. Jackson farm,
                    on foot, for "copy" and "corrected proofs."
             The Indiana Democrat was continued by that name until 1841,
                 when George A. Chapman, publisher of a paper at 
                 
                     Terre Haute
                 , and Jacob Page Chapman, his brother, publisher of a paper at 
                 
                     Evansville
                    , purchased the Democrat, adding to its material
                 all of their types and presses, and changing the name of the paper to The 
                     Indiana State Sentinel. They continued to own and publish
                    the paper until 1850, when I became the purchaser of the name and good will of
                    the paper, for which I purchased an entirely new plant of presses, types and
                    printing materials.
            AUSTIN H. BROWN.
         
         
         
             EARLY 
                 
                     INDIANPOLIS
                 .
            THE FLETCHER PAPERS—THIRD INSTALMENT.
            
                    Character of the Early Settlers; High Standard of
                        Intelligence—Mutual Helpfulness—Intellectual and
                        Social Culture—Hunting Incident; George Smith's White
                        Swan—Sugar-Making—Daniel Yandes's Big Log
                        Contract.
                
            
                From the 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     News of June 2, 1879.
                
             WHAT society was in 
                 
                     Indianapolis
                  in 1822-'23 I might illustrate very fully from the letters
                    and journals of my parents. In a letter written to a lady in 
                 
                        Virginia
                     under date of January 17, 1822, my father defends 
                 
                     Indianapolis
                  from the exaggerated reports of a few disappointed
                 ones—reports which for many a day gave a bad name to 
                 
                     Indianapolis
                 
                 —and he afterwards speaks of the character of the early
                    settlers. "You have been informed," he writes, 
                  
                     
                        "that we have a large swamp in the rear of our town. I am
                                    happy to inform you that this is not exact information. Our
                                    town, like all newly-settled places, requires seasoning before a
                                    person can be strictly healthy. I am much pleased with the
                                    inhabitants of this new purchase. As I told you in one of my
                                    letters, we have none here but independent free-holders, and a
                                    much more enlightened set of people than any other I have seen
                                    in the western country. We have all the emancipators from 
                            
                                Kentucky
                            , who are of the sober class. We have likewise the
                                    industry of the State, such as never owned slaves, either from
                                    poverty or conscientious scruples, and we have the thrift of 
                            
                                Ohio
                            
                            . Our laws and constitution are truly Republican.
                                    Debts are easily collected; all fines on military delinquents
                                    and for misdemeanors are appropriated to the use of the county
                                    seminaries in this State."
                     
                  
                My father's judgment of the class of people who first settled
                 here was an intelligent one, for he was well acquainted with new towns in 
                 
                     Virginia
                 , some of the old towns in 
                 
                     Pennsylvania
                 , and with the people of 
                 
                     Ohio
                 
                 in such places as 
                     Urbana
                 , 
                 Columbus,
                 Dayton
                and
                 
                     Bellefontaine
                 . He therefore, when he wrote, had in mind a comparison between the
                 inhabitants of the above-named towns in 
                 
                     Ohio
                 , and the early Indianapolitans when he  places the latter as "a much more
                    enlightened set of people than any other I have seen in the west."
                    There must have been a certain intellectual activity and a moral bent at the
                    very outset which manifested itself not merely in political meetings but in town
                    meetings for the promotion of civil affairs; in debating clubs for exercising,
                    if I may so say, in mental gymnastics; in religious meetings, and in a class for
                    the study of the Bible before a regular minister settled down to parish duties.
                    These things make up the staple of my mother's journal. Already I have
                    recorded the inauguration of the new year (1822) by the party at
                    Wyant's. Now we are told how, on January 26, 
                  
                     
                        "Mrs. Henry Bradley came and staid with me until eleven
                                    o'clock, while Mr. Bradley and Mr. Fletcher went to the
                                    debating society." 
                     
                  
                Again: 
                  
                     
                        "On Tuesday, the 29th of January, I attended a quilting
                                    party at Mr. Buckner's, and there met a number of
                                    ladies who were formerly from 
                            
                                Kentucky
                            ." 
                     
                  
                Individual neighborly help, as well as combined aid, was the order of
                    the day, as we may see from the entry of January 20, viz: "Arranged
                    some candle wick for Mrs. Foote," and, at a later date: "Had
                    Mr. Blake get me some bean poles."
            Not only were there practical mutual aid societies, but mutual improvement
                    societies. February 18, 1822, my mother writes: "I went to Mrs.
                    Buckner's and assisted her in finishing her quilt;" and, on
                    Saturday, 9th of February, "Went to the singing school." The
                    debating club is mentioned again. Then the social visits: 
                  
                     
                        "Monday, February 11. Took tea at Mr. Steven's,
                                    who will move to-morrow two miles into the country."
                                    "Tuesday, 12. I have had a very pressing invitation
                                    to-day to go a-visiting with Mrs. Nowland and Mrs. Bradley to
                                    Mrs. Yandes's; but I do not feel well enough to
                                    go." "Wednesday, the 13th of February. Mr. and
                                    Mrs. Paxton came and took tea with us, and then Mr. P. and Mr.
                                    F. went out hunting, returning at ten
                                    o'clock."
                     
                  
                I suppose from the hour these pioneers went out hunting and from the
                    shortness of their stay that they must have gone coon hunting. Coons could then
                    be "treed" at a good many places within the limits of our
                    solid blocks on Washington, Market, Maryland, Missouri and Meridian streets.
            Among the curious hunting incidents of those days was the shooting of a swan by
                    George Smith (our first printer). One 
                    morning in the spring of 1822 he started for the wild woods in the vicinity of
                    the present Kingan's pork-house, and following down the left bank of
                    the river he saw in the water a flock of white swans. Mr. Smith succeeded in
                    bagging the largest of the flock. My father informed me that this magnificent
                    bird was of the most beautiful plumage and of wonderful size. This is the only
                    visit of swans to 
                
                    Indianapolis
                
                that I ever heard of.
            Among other of the earlier recreations must be counted the fishing excursions in
                    the springtime, rambles after raspberries in the summer, and gathering of wild
                    grapes in autumn. More like work were sugar-making, gardening, and the drying of
                    pumpkins. My mother writes:
            "Monday, March 10, 1822. I began sugar-making."
            This was in the vicinity of Missouri street and south of Washington. Some at that time tapped the maple trees in the very heart of our
                    present city, and others went into the dense woods north, east and south.
                    "March 24, 1822," is the date recorded by my mother when she
                    "walked more than a mile to a sugar-camp." This probably
                    refers to a sugar-camp in the vicinity of Fletcher Place Church, on Virginia avenue. Here it was, according to Mr. John H. B. Nowland, that his
                    father first "made sugar at an old Indian sugar-camp," in the
                    spring of the previous year. In 1846 I took notes of my father in regard to the
                    spring of 1822, and he informed me that the fine sugar grove that occupied in
                    and around what is now known as the Governor's Circle was, in 1822,
                    used as a sugar camp, and that the trees were tapped some five or six feet from
                    the ground, and the troughs for catching the sugar water were scaffolded up by
                    poles to keep the hogs from drinking nature's nectar. Mrs. Paxton, he
                    said, made sugar from the primeval forest trees that occupied the site of our
                    State House and contiguous portions of Washington street, while Mr. Nowland's camp was further out in the
                    country, and they were busily engaged in boiling the water down to syrup in a
                    grove not far from where Judge Stevens at present resides.∗
            
            Sugar-making and gardening did not prevent social visiting, which seemed to be
                    going on every day, in the forenoon as well as the afternoon and evening.
                    Everybody at that time called the whole of the afternoon evening.
            
               
                  ∗This probably means the old Stevens
                        residence on New Jersey street below South.—Editor.
               
            
            
            On the 13th of April my mother writes: 
                  
                     
                        "The waters are very high at this time, and have been
                                    for a week back. Mr. Levington and many other men have been ten
                                    miles up the river, on the public lands, cutting saw-logs for
                                    several weeks. They made a contract with Daniel Yandes to
                                    deliver him 2,000 logs at one dollar per piece, and since the
                                    rain the saw-logs are coming down the river."
                     
                  
             This, I presume, was the biggest contract up to that time made in 
                
                    Indianapolis
                
                . The logs were doubtless for the most part poplar and walnut.
            The waters continued high for a week or more, for on the first of April it is
                    written that "Mrs. Wick and Miss Carter went with me to the river. We
                    had the pleasure of riding up to the mouth of Fall creek and back again to the
                    ford on a flatboat." The "ford" was not far from the Vincennes railroad bridge.∗ The flatboat was
                    the largest vessel seen on our river at this point. I can remember the flatboats
                    that went from here with produce to "Orleans." The last that I
                can recall was navigated to the mouth of the 
                Mississippi by "old Van Blaricum," the father of "Mike" and
                    "Bill." When he returned he brought with him the first oranges
                    and cocoanuts that ever came to 
                
                    Indianapolis
                
                . Old V. B. was a kind man to little children, and on his return
                from "
                    Orleans
                " he took delight in inviting them to his house
                    to show them his stock of tropical fruits and to gladden their child-hearts with
                    presents.
            
               
                  ∗Berry Sulgrove speaks of this ford and
                        also of one where the Lafayette road crosses the river (see History of 
                            Marion County
                        , p. 13). J. H. B. Nowland (see "Prominent
                        Citizens," p. 10) says that the mouth of Fall creek was the
                   crossing-place of White river, long used by the
                        Indians, and he has described to me personally a bar at the mouth of the
                        creek at which various Indian trails converged. From this convergence one
                        might reasonably infer that the Fall creek bar was the only fordable spot in
                        this locality, at a day when the river flowed much more water than at
                        present, but the using of others by our first-comers somewhat negatives this
                        theory. Which illustrates the difficulty of getting at historical
                            "facts."—Editor.
               
            
            [To be continued.]
         
         
         
             THE EARLY SCHOOLS OF INDIANA.
            FROM PAPERS OF D. D. BANTA—THIRD INSTALMENT.
            
                    The Book Famine in Pioneer Days—Scarcity of
                        School-books; Those Used—Preeminence of Spelling—The
                        McGuffey Readers; Their Excellence—Home-made Writing
                        Materials—The Difficulties of Arithmetic—Popular
                        Opinion of Grammar—"Loud Schools"—
                        The Reign of the Switch—A Few Anecdotes.
                
            
                From the 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    News of February 24, 1892
                
             HOW hungry did some who were boys here in 
                 Indiana fifty years ago become for
                    something fresh and entertaining to read! Often have I heard that lover of good
                    books, the late A. B. Hunter, of 
                 
                        Franklin
                    , tell the story of a book that was owned by a man living on the
                    outskirts of his neighborhood. He had read everything owned by the neighbors
                    that he cared to read, and now came the story of a new book—one
                    unlike anything that he had thus far seen, and he was wild to get hold of it. At
                    last there came a day when his father could spare a horse from the plow, and
                    young Hunter went in pursuit of the new book, which was found, borrowed, and
                    subsequently read with a zest almost unknown up to that time, for it was one of
                    Sir Walter Scott's immortal stories.
            It seems to me that scarcely any other thing so distinctly marks the difference
                    between the present and the past of which I am writing, as the great scarcity of
                    reading matter in that past compared with its great abundance now. I think it
                    not too much to say that in my own "
                
                        Shiloh
                     neighborhood," all the books, excluding Bibles, hymn-books
                    and spelling-books, owned by the neighborhood, could have been packed in a
                    bushel basket. I call to mind "Hozzy's Life of Marion," "Trumbull's Indians,"
                    "Carey's Olive Branch," a "Natural
                    History," "Western Adventure," a "Life of
                    Selkirk," "Young's Night Thoughts,"
                    "Josephus," and "Pilgrim's
                    Progress," and that was about all. No wonder if a boy living in that
                    neighborhood would become so hungry for something to read that he had recourse
                    to the inside of the lid of a certain big box in which was stored the family
                    linen, that he might read the two exposed pages of a copy of the 
                    Western Luminary that had been pasted thereon. The story may
                    seem incredible, but that boy thus read the two pages of that old luminary many
                    a time, and every time he did so he imagined he found a freshness in it that was
                    charming.
            But it is to the school-books, or rather want of school-books, of that time that
                    I wish to call attention. There were comparatively few school-books published in
                    those days. Every school child, at least after learning the letters, was
                    expected to have a spelling-book, and Dillworth's and
                    Webster's American were used in the beginning. The child who had not
                    been taught his letters out of a Bible or hymn-book at home, usually brought a
                    primer. I have, however, seen a paddle with the alphabet pasted thereon used
                    instead of a primer or spelling-book. I never saw Dillworth's.
                    Webster's elementary spelling-book, the most wonderfully successful
                    strictly educational book that was ever published in 
                
                    America
                , at an early day
                occupied the entire field in Indiana, and practically held it until the
                    appearance of McGuffey's Eclectic Speller, which was published
                    somewhere about 1850. The elementary served the double purpose of spelling-book
                    and reading-book. The old schoolmasters placed great stress on spelling. The
                    custom, it is believed, existed universally in the country schools, at least up
                    to and for some time after 1850, for the whole school to stand up twice a day
                    and spell for head. A half-day in every week was given to a spelling-match,
                    besides which night spelling-schools were of frequent occurrence. No one ever
                    grew so large or so learned that he was exempted from the duty of spelling. I
                    have known the head man of a long row of pupils to spell the first word without
                    dictation, after which the next in line would spell the next word, and so on
                    down to the foot, and then from the head on down again. The words in the
                    elementary spelling-book were generally written in a sort of rhythmical order
                    which made them easy to memorize. There were spellers who claimed to know the
                    book by heart, and there were still more who claimed to be able to spell
                    correctly every word in it.
            I have said the elementary spelling-book was used as a reader as well as a
                    speller, and so it was. On nearly every page was reading matter made up of moral
                    sentences in each of which was usually found one or more words belonging to the
                    annexed spelling  lesson. It was the
                    practice to teach a pupil to spell first, after which he might read. Some
                    teachers, after the scholar had learned to spell sufficiently well, required him
                    to pronounce the words in the book at sight, and after he was able to do this
                    sufficiently well he was formally set to reading. The "pronouncing
                    lesson," as it was called, may have had its uses, but I have no doubt
                    that many a pupil was reading quite well at home before being allowed to read at
                    school. Do I not remember the first reading-lesson in the elementary
                    spelling-book? No matter if the pupil could pronounce at sight all the words in
                    the book, Charles Disbrow, of blessed memory (my old teacher), insisted that he
                    who was going to take the long leap into the reading world should read the first
                    lesson. As the boy who could read the Testament at home and pronounce all the
                    words of the spelling-book at school stepped up to read his first and formal
                    lesson, consisting of words of three letters, how silent that hitherto loud
                    school would become, and how loud his own voice would sound as he read:
            "She fed the hen.
            "The old hen was fed by her.
            "See how the hen can run."
            Was ever ordeal worse than that? After the book had been read through and
                    through, say half a dozen times, another reader was in order, provided it could
                    be had. There were few school readers in those days. Here and there was to be
                    found an old copy of the "English Reader" or the
                    "Columbian Orator." Rev. George K. Hester tells us that he
                    read a dream book and "Gulliver's Travels." I have
                    seen Gulliver myself in the schoolroom; and so of the "Life of Marion," "Pilgrim's Progress,"
                    histories, sermon books and the Holy Bible. Henry Eaves, a pioneer schoolmaster
                    of 
                        Switzerland county
                    , in his extremity, took the 
                  
                      Frankfort
                         Argus into his school, which served the uses of a
                    "reader." About 1835 B. T. Emerson's readers came
                    into use to a limited extent. Somewhat later—five years,
                    perhaps— McGuffey's Eclectic Series appeared and ultimately
                    occupied the field to the exclusion of all others. The introduction of this
                    series marked an era in the schools of the State. They were of incalculable
                    benefit to the people of the western country. I think it not too much to say
                    that the higher readers of the series did 
                    more to cultivate a taste for the better American literature than any other
                    books of that day. But for them the names of Percival, Bryant, Longfellow,
                    Hawthorne, Irving, Paulding and other American authors of the first half-century
                    would have been known to few indeed of the school children of 
                    Indiana of thirty
                    and forty years ago.
            The pupil having learned to read sufficiently well, he was next set to writing.
                    The mothers usually made the copy-books by sewing a few sheets of foolscap
                    together. The geese furnished the quills that were fashioned into pens, and the
                    ink was homemade. Maple bark, sumach and oak balls and vinegar were the
                    materials out of which most of the ink of that period was made. In its season
                    pokeberry jaice was sometimes used, but, notwithstanding its ornamental
                    capabilities, its use was never very general. It was too apt to sour. The
                    inkstands were generaly homemade also. A favorite inkstand was a section of a
                    cow's horn, sawed off and fitted with a wooden water-tight bottom.
                    Another favorite one was made of lead or pewter. Many of the boys of the old
                    school days understood the art of casting inkstands. The pupil's first
                    exercise in writing was the making of "pot-books and bangers."
                    In the fulness of time his teacher would set him his best round-hand copy, and
                    in doing so he never failed of placing before the eyes of the scholar some moral
                    or patriotic precept worthy of his remembrance, such as, "Commandments
                    ten God gave to men;" "Eternal viligance is the price of
                    Liberty;" "Washington was the father of his country;" "Evil
                    communications corrupt good manners."
            The next thing in order for the boys was arithmetic. Not many girls gave any
                    attention to this study. Not much was ever said about it as a girls'
                    study, but I think it was generally considered that the girls did not have
                    "heads for figures." Instead of arithmetic they took to
                    geography and grammar, when they took to anything. It was the practice with a
                    good many teachers to require their arithmetical scholars to copy all the
                    "sums" in a "ciphering book." Mr. George
                    Adams, who attended school in 
                        Johnson county
                     away back in the twenties, had, a few years ago, such a book, and
                    judging from it the writer must have understood fairly well his subject.
                    Students in arithmetic never recited—they simply
                    "ciphered." The teacher seldom paid  any attention to them unasked. The boys usually
                    helped each other, but when help failed in that quarter the teacher would, on
                    request, "work the sum." The majority of teachers thought they
                    had done all that was necessary when that much was done. Sometimes a boy would
                    "sneak" his arithmetic and slate into the school and
                    "cipher" for a considerable time before the teacher discovered
                    it. I did this myself, and traveled over addition, subtraction, multiplication
                    and short division, before my teacher let on that he knew what I was about. I
                    had reached long division, which I found so very hard that I broke down at it in
                    despair. Washington Miller, my old teacher, seeing my trouble, came to me, and without
                    any reproaching gave the needed assistance, and thence on I was recognized as an
                    arithmetical student. My friend, Mr. Hunter, who is mentioned above, went to
                    school to a teacher who did not pretend to teach arithmetic beyond the
                    "single rule of three." Young Hunter had advanced beyond that.
                    He took his seat in the schoolhouse, however, and ciphered away till he went
                    through the book. There was a greater variety of arithmetics than any other
                    school-book. Pike's was the one most generally in use. The familiar pages of
                    a copy of this old veteran are now before me. Their matter consists of abstract
                    rules and of examples. I am not much surprised that I stalled on the long
                    division hill on that school day so long past. "Take for the first
                    dividend as few of the left hand figures of the dividend as will contain the
                    divisor, try how often they will contain it, and set the number of times on the
                    right of the dividend," and so on. Not a word of explanation; no
                    development of the process; nothing but the abstract rule. The other arithmetics
                    of the time were Smiley's, Bennett's, Jess's,
                    Dillworth's, Western Calculator, and probably some others.
                    Smith's and Ray's appeared shortly before 1840, and in five or
                    six years the latter had the field.
            The geographies used were Moore's, Woodbridge's,
                    Smith's and Olney's. These were the only school-books
                    illustrated save the few pictures in the spelling-books, and there were very few
                    children who did not delight to turn the leaves of a geography and look at its
                    pictures. Lindley Murray's English grammar was the first in the field;
                    after that came Kirkham's. There was not much studying of either
                    geography or grammar in the  early days. As
                    to the former, it was considered a proper enough study if one had the time to
                    spare for it, but by some the study of the latter was deemed useless waste of
                    time. As late as 1845 the trustees of 
                
                    Vevay
                 in employing a teacher required in the written contract that he
                    should "not teach grammar."
            
                    From the News of March 16.
                
            The first schools I attended were "loud schools." Loud schools
                were the rule in the beginning here in 
                Indiana
                ; silent ones were the exception.
                    The odds in the argument were believed to be in favor of the loud school. A
                    celebrated Scotch teacher, Alexander Kinmont, of 
                
                    Cincinnati
                , as late as 1837, would conduct school by no other method. He
                    claimed that it is the practical, philosophical system by which boys can be
                    trained for business on a steamboat wharf or any other place. Both boys and
                    girls spelled and read at the tops of their voices, on occasion, and sometimes
                    the roar of their lesson-getting could be heard for a half to three-quarters of
                    a mile. It is not much wonder that Owen Davis took his fiddle to school and
                    solaced himself by playing airs while his scholars were shouting over their
                    lessons. The teacher of a loud school who would keep his pupils at work labored
                    under a great disadvantage. The idler who was roaring at one word, or over a
                    line of poetry, or trumpeting through his nose, was, for aught the teacher knew,
                    committing his lesson. It was said of one boy in an 
                
                        Orange county
                     school that he "repeated the one word
                    ‘heptorpy’ from morning till noon and from noon till night
                    in order to make the teacher believe that he was studying his lesson."
            Fifty or a hundred years ago the swishing of the switch was heard everywhere, in
                    the family circle and in the schoolhouse, throughout the length and breadth of
                    the land. The fathers made their children "mind." The switch
                    was the usual instrument, and its prompt and free use doubtless gave birth to
                    such expressive phrases as "a lick and a promise,"
                    "the word with the bark on," and "tan your
                    jacket." The schoolmaster, standing in the place of the parent,
                    punished as freely and savagely, and usually with the full approval of the
                    parent. One of the most curious phases of the flagellating period was the almost
                    universal prevalence of the sentiment that the schoolmaster who neglected the
                    frequent use of the rod was a failure as a teacher. I had a friend who, much
                    less than fifty years ago, was in the  habit
                    of occasionally playing pedagogue. In one of his schools he had a nice company
                    of country urchins, between whom and himself there was the very best of feeling.
                    After the school had run smoothly for a month or six weeks and no whipping done,
                    his patrons began to think something was wrong. One morning one of them met him
                    and bluntly told him that he was making a mistake—that he was
                    "not whipping anybody." "Why, who'll I
                    whip?" he asked. "Whip Sam," was the prompt answer.
                    "What for? He's lazy, I know; but I can't whip him
                    for laziness, can I?" asked the pedagogue. "Yes, give it to
                    him. Sam's my boy and I know he needs it every day."
            Now and then the circumstances were so ludicrous that the master's
                    punishment, instead of inspiring terror, provoked laughter. I once heard a story
                    told on a 
                
                    Johnson county
                 teacher to this effect: He was in the habit of opening his school
                    with prayer. His pupils, for some reason distrusting his sincerity, sometimes
                    during the services would wink and smile and even snicker out. One morning he
                    carried an empty flour sack to school which he put on the seat beside him, and
                    while he was praying that morning, the irreverent conduct of two or three of the
                    larger boys attracting his attention, he broke off his prayer and, seizing the
                    empty sack, he struck each of the misbehaving lads over the shoulders, powdering
                    them all over with the white flour, after which he concluded his prayer. Mr.
                    Chute was an eminent schoolmaster in 
                
                    Evansville
                 at an early day, who opened his school with prayer. He always
                    stood, with a "long fishing cane in his hand," and prayed with
                    his eyes open. "When he caught a boy in mischief during prayer he would
                    stop short and call out: ‘Woe be to you, John,’ and strike
                    him over the shoulder with his long cane, and then resume his prayer."
                    Another and similar but better story than either of the others comes from
                    Pleasant township in 
                
                    Switzerland county
                . An old gentleman by the name of Curry taught in that township for
                    several years. "He was a widower and married man by turns."
                    Once when in the former state he went to the schoolhouse early in the morning to
                    write a love-letter. When the pupils came he carelessly left it on his desk and
                    proceeded to open school with prayer. Kneeling down he prayed with his
                    "whip in his right hand and his right eye open." One of the
                    boys, stealing up to the desk where the 
                    love-letter lay, began reading it; but ere he was aware the old man broke off in
                    the middle of a sentence and, collaring him, gave him a sound thrashing, after
                    which, adds the historian, "he resumed his devotions with equanimity.
            It was the custom to whip on the slightest provocation, and not infrequently
                    without any provocation at all. There is scarcely a county in the State that has
                    not had, at one time or another, its teacher who would drink to intoxication on
                    Saturday and soundly thrash every scholar in the school on Monday. The
                    neighborhoods are full of the traditions of the savagery of the old
                    schoolmasters. The schoolhouses fairly bristled with switches cut from the
                    neighboring thickets. According to the historian of 
                        Morgan county
                    , "these old instruments of punishment were always present
                    and usually hung on wooden hooks over the old fireplace, so that they became so
                    hardened by seasoning from the heat that they resisted the severest exercise of
                    the teacher in an application on some offending pupil, and even cut the wooden
                    benches as the teacher in his fervor pursued round and round the howling
                    culprit." I read of a 
                        Bartholomew county
                     schoolmaster who "kept his switches standing in the corner
                    or lying on pegs in the wall, but the cat-o'-nine-tails lay in the
                    desk. He punished with the former and terrified with the latter." A 
                
                    Martinsville
                 schoolmaster flogged his pupils, it is said, on the least
                    provocation, with a "long hickory gad, well-seasoned in the hot embers
                    of the fire."
            It would be a mistake to infer that there were no other punishments, save
                    corporal, given in those days. The "dunce block," the
                    "fool's cap," the "leather
                    spectacles," "bringing up the switch,"
                    "standing in the corner," "standing on one
                    foot," "sitting on the girls' side," and any
                    and all other schemes the wit of the old schoolmaster could devise were tried. I
                    remember to have seen a teacher remove a puncheon from its place in the floor
                    and incarcerate a big girl in the "hole under the floor,"
                    which had been dug for clay to make the hearth, jambs and backwalls of the
                    fireplace. I shall never forget how he pushed her fingers off the edges of the
                    floor when he fitted the puncheon back in its place.
            [To be continued.]
         
         
         
            BERRY R. SULGROVE, JOURNALIST.
             [These sketches from the Journal and News, of 
                 
                     Indianapolis
                 , were published at the time of Mr. Sulgrove's death, which
                    occurred February 20, 1890.]
            
                    From the Journal.
                
             BERRY R. SULGROVE was born in 
                 
                     Indianapolis
                  March 16, 1827, and was the oldest child of James and Katherine
                    Sulgrove. His first schooling was at the age of five years, Miss Clarissa
                    Ellick, who taught in the old Baptist Church at the corner of Meridian and Maryland
                    streets, being his teacher. He received the rudiments of his
                    education in the different private schools of the city, there being at that time
                    no public schools here. In 1839 he entered the old County Seminary, on
                    University Square, which was conducted by James S. Kemper, and continued his
                    studies there five years. He then entered his father's harness and
                    saddlery shop, and learned that trade. This was in 1844, when Henry Clay and
                    James K. Polk were opposing candidates for the presidency. In 1847 Mr. Sulgrove
                    entered Bethany College,  
                        West Virginia
                    , then under the presidency of Alexander Campbell. His principal
                    collegiate course covered branches which he had studied at the old seminary, and
                    he was enabled to graduate in one year, notwithstanding the fact that three
                    months of that period were devoted to teaching. There were five departments in
                    the college, and he secured first and second honor in each. He was
                    "first honor man" of the college, taking those of all
                    departments—the first time such a circumstance had ever happened in
                    that institution. He made his graduating speech in Greek.
            In 1848, returning to his home in this city, he began the study of law, with the
                    late Oliver H. Smith and Simon Yandes. After three years he formed a partnership
                    with John Caven, afterwards mayor of the city, and they practised together until
                    the winter of 1854-'5. He then, with the late John D. Defrees, took
                    editorial charge of The 
                        
                            Indianapolis
                         Journal. He had previously written much for the press,
                    having contributed considerable matter over the nom de plume
                    of "Timothy Tugmutton" to various  publications. In 1850 he wrote sketches of the
                    constitutional convention for The Locomotive, then published
                    in this city. He next contributed to The Hoosier City, 
                    a small paper published by young men then connected with
                    the Journal, and also wrote considerable matter for the
                    columns of the last-named paper. This preceded the time of his regular
                    connection with the paper.
            When Mr. Sulgrove first became connected with the Journal he
                    did work now divided into a number of departments—writing leaders,
                    general news items, local matter, convention and meeting reports, as well as
                    copying telegraph news after the old style. He inaugurated the system of
                    covering the night's news for the paper of the following morning, and
                    introduced the first verbatim reports ever used by the local papers. At this
                    time he frequently worked nineteen out of twenty-four hours. In 1856 he bought
                    sufficient stock in the paper to give him a majority of the shares. He sold out
                    in 1863, intending to go to Europe, but was prevented and continued as editor of
                    the Journal. In 1864 he accompanied Morton and McDonald
                    through the State in their joint canvass for Governor, reporting the discussions
                    for the Journal. He served later as Governor Morton's
                    private secretary. In 1866 he returned to the editorial charge of the Journal, in which he continued for several years afterward,
                    and with intervals he had been connected with the paper nearly twenty-five
                    years. He took service with the News when that paper was
                    established, and continued with it until ill-health precluded his doing further
                    literary work.
            Mr. Sulgrove was one of the most remarkable men this city and State have ever
                    known. As an editorial writer during the war he wielded an influence in the West
                    that was second to none, and he was from first to last the mainstay and adviser
                    of the great War Governor of Indiana. While modestly keeping himself in the
                    background, he was ready with his opinion and counsel when asked, and they were
                    always weighty. He was sometimes likened to Horace Greeley as a journalist, but
                    the comparison hardly did Mr. Sulgrove justice, for, with the brilliancy of Mr.
                    Greeley, he was never eccentric, but always steady and mature, no politician
                    ever being led into blunders by following his counsel or leadership. In his
                    youth he was a Whig, but on the foundation of the Republican party was one of
                    the first to  lift the standard of the new
                    party, and, with his ready pen, gave utterance to the sublime sentiments of
                    freedom.
            While in his later years Mr. Sulgrove wrote for several papers, and on a variety
                    of subjects, it was a noticeable fact that he would never write anything he did
                    not thoroughly believe, and especially was he conscientious upon political
                    topics, and never at any time would he write except from a Republican
                    standpoint. As to versatility, he could, at a moment's notice, write
                    upon almost any topic. A publisher once had a cut representing a covey of
                    quails. Mr. Sulgrove was shown the engraving and asked if he could write
                    something to "fit it." He at once sat down and wrote an
                    article upon the quail and its habits, gathered from his own observation,
                    together with a number of anecdotes and incidents of this bird, that would have
                    done credit to the research of a Wilson or an Audubon. As a matter of fact, no
                    naturalist has, in the same number of lines, ever written so entertainingly and,
                    at the same time, so instructively, and the article, or pieces of it, were for
                    years floating about in the various papers and magazines of the land.
            From his earliest childhood his powers of observation were wonderfully keen, and
                    continued in full exercise all his life. He was a great walker, a close student
                    of nature, and was always seeing things in the fields and woods. As a boy he was
                    full of life, a rover of the woods and a saunterer by the streams. He and
                    General Lew Wallace were boys together, and it is said that they lay in
                White river all summer. From the time that he began to
                go to school, through the old 
                
                    Marion County
                
                 Seminary and at Bethany College, he was looked upon as an Admirable
                 Crichton, knowing everything, able to do anything. In the early days of 
                
                    Indianapolis
                 he was looked upon as the orator of the town; at the same time he
                    was the head of a company of Thespians of no mean merit, and a little later on
                    was the captain of the 
                
                    Marion
                 fire company, in the days of the old volunteer service.
            There seemed no limit to his knowledge, and his acquisitions were in all manner
                    of fields. His memory has for nearly half a century been the talk of the town.
                    It was said that he never forgot anything he had ever seen or heard. He carried
                    tables of election returns about in his head and when called upon could tell how
                    any county went and frequently could surprise a questioner  by giving the exact vote in some obscure precinct.
                    One of his feats of memory quite surprised Professor Mitchell, the noted
                    astronomer, who delivered a lecture here when this place was young. Mr. Sulgrove
                    was present, heard the lecture and gave the Journal a full
                    report of it. He did not have a scrap of paper to take a note, and the figures
                    of the lecture were given with absolute accuracy. This was before the art of
                    stenography had come to the West, but with such a verbatim memory short-hand
                    would appear to be unnecessary.
             Mr. Sulgrove went to Europe with Governor Morton in 1866. At 
                 
                     Paris
                 , sitting at dinner with a number of distinguished gentlemen who had
                    called upon Governor Morton, a discussion arose about a quotation from Horace.
                    Governor Morton himself was not interested, as he made no pretentions to
                    scholarship of that character, but a couple of British gentlemen were much in
                    earnest about the matter. As the discussion did not seem like coming to an end,
                    Mr. Sulgrove, begging their pardon, asked to set them right. He not only gave
                    the quotation, but quoted a half a page or more of the matter of which it was a
                    part, and the Britons looked upon the quiet gentleman, who had so unexpectedly
                    displayed such scholarship and memory, in wonder. At 
                 
                     Rome
                 , where he made a long sojourn, he was known as "the
                    learned American." He appeared to acquire the Italian language in a few
                    weeks, and spoke it readily, even with the rabble of the place, mastering even
                    the patois of the fruit-sellers, fishermen and beggars. The
                 sculptor, Rogers, who had lived in 
                 
                     Rome
                 
                 twenty years, met Mr. Sulgrove there. Speaking of the wonderful
                    acquirements of the man, he said he found Mr. Sulgrove, who had just arrived,
                    knew a great deal more of 
                 
                     Rome
                 
                 , both ancient and modern, than he did.
            There was a vein of humor in Mr. Sulgrove's conversation, which at times
                    appeared in his writing. One of the best examples of this, coupled with satire,
                    a weapon he seldom used, was given in an editorial, many years ago, the 
                Journal, in which he dissected a then recent speech of Hon.
                    Daniel W. Voorhees. The article bore the heading, "The Oratorical
                    Rooster," and the writer began with narrating that in his youth he was
                    the happy possessor of a most remarkable rooster. This chanticleer was possessed
                    of two legs of unequal length, one being a preternaturally  short leg and the other a supernaturally long leg.
                    "When he stood upon his long leg and scratched with his short
                    leg," the article continued, "he fell short of the object
                    scratched for; when he stood upon his short leg and scratched with his long leg
                    he went beyond the object scratched for." With this beginning, he took
                    up Mr. Voorhees's speech and dissected it, paragraph after paragraph,
                    with running comments, adding here and there, "Here he scratched with
                    his short leg" and "there he scratched with his long
                    leg," making the application in a way that caused the article to go
                    through the party press from one end of the State to the other. Mr. Sulgrove
                    dearly delighted to have a foeman worthy of his steel, and for that reason, in
                    the days when personal journalism was indulged to greater length than now, he
                    was always more than pleased to have a tilt at Mr. Hendricks or Mr. McDonald.
                    Withal, he was so genial and bore so little personal rancor that not the
                    bitterest Democrat held any abiding enmity toward him. He was, despite of his
                    great attainments, perhaps because of them, the most modest of men, firm in his
                    friendship, and of the finest and tenderest sensibility. The death of George C.
                    Harding, ten years ago, struck him with great force. He could not nerve himself
                    to go to the funeral, nor even to come to the office where they had so often met
                    and talked, for many days afterward.
            
                    From the News.
                
            Mr. Sulgrove was the first editor to appreciate the value of news. It was the
                    custom when he took charge of the Journal to set up all the
                    matter during the day, lock up the forms by 6 o'clock and leave them
                    ready for the pressman to work off the next morning. An event occurring after 4
                    or 5 o'clock in the afternoon, no matter how important, never was
                    mentioned in the paper until the second day. One night a fire occurred that was
                    large for the town, and Mr. Sulgrove, procuring a printer or two, wrote an
                    account of it, got it into the form, and the readers the next morning were
                    amazed to see the report. This led to other work of the same kind, and from that
                    time on people were not compelled to wait thirty-six hours to hear of important
                    events.
            In 1869, when the News was started, he became a member of the
                    staff and has served as such ever since. He was also a contributor, more or less
                    regularly, to other papers both here and 
                    elsewhere, and did a great deal of work for individuals, including the writing
                    of much of "Holloway's 
                
                    Indianapolis
                ," and the entire authorship of "The History of 
                
                    Indianapolis
                 and 
                
                    Marion County
                ," published in 1884. On all subjects pertaining to the
                history, growth and appearance of 
                
                    Indianapolis
                 and vicinity, as well as of the people who made the city, he was a
                    great reservoir of knowledge, and to his pen we owe it that much that would soon
                    be forgotten has been put into permanent form.
            RECOLLECTIONS OF D. L. PAINE.
            Mr. D. L. Paine, long an associate of Mr. Sulgrove, contributes this sketch:
            I have known Berry R. Sulgrove somewhat intimately for thirty years, having been
                    brought into close contact with him as compositor, proof-reader and associate in
                    editorial work a large part of that time. He was a man of great force of
                    character and quaint originality. While not profoundly learned in any direction,
                    his available knowledge of almost everything was wonderful. In mind, as in
                    personal appearance, he was unique. His friends were among all classes. He would
                    chat pleasantly with the ignorant or vicious denizen of hell's
                    half-acre, or discuss the precession of the equinoxes with the learned savant;
                    sing a song to kindred company in a lounging-room, or coddle his dear old violin
                    in his own study. He was the counseler of governors and statesmen, and the
                    friend and associate of vagrants. He could invest a story with absorbing
                    interest simply by his manner of telling it, or dismiss an absurd proposition in
                    too forceful and not always polite words. The boyish, eager look in his roundly
                    opened eyes when a matter of interest came to him, the comic expression which
                    overspread his whole countenance in relating a joke, his quick staccato
                    movements and nervous utterances, will be recalled by those who knew him in his
                    prime. He was careless of personal appearance and brusque in manner, but genial,
                    and even playful, with his intimates. Given to wide and lonely wanderings, he
                    knew every stranded log on the river bank, and every lichen and fern-frond for
                    miles around as familiar acquaintances.
            Seated at his desk in his earlier editorial days, his knees wide apart, with his
                    toes touching the floor in the rear of his chair,  displaying the soles of his feet, his shoulders
                    rounded up Atlas-like, looking over his spectacles with his forehead nearly
                    touching the sheet upon which he was tracing microscopic characters, perhaps
                    humming a tune or whistling softly, he presented an appearance quite striking if
                    not grotesque. His handwriting was peculiar. In the old days, when he edited the
                        Journal, but two compositors in the office could decipher
                    his chirography, and a list of the laughable blunders they often made hung upon
                    the wall. He was given to outlandish expressions, as for instance, a valueless
                    thing "was not worth the butt-cut of a hog-weed." In his best
                    days his list of correspondents contained many names known to science, politics
                    and society. He traveled for a time in Europe, and his letters, if collected,
                    would make an interesting volume. Taken in every respect, he was the most
                    striking figure in the list of Indiana journalists.
            OTHER STORIES.
            Mr. Sulgrove was constantly giving away something from his prodigious store of
                    knowledge that was worth knowing. His acquaintances are full of stories
                    illustrating his characteristics. Colonel Holloway, in speaking of him, said
                    that there was nothing he couldn't do. "I can beat you
                    shooting, Berry," he said to him once in 
                
                    New York
                , as they approached a shooting stand. But Berry hit the
                    bull's eye three times in succession, though he shot with glasses.
                    "Where did you learn to shoot?" the colonel asked. "I
                    picked it up when I was a boy." He had knowledge of music and played
                    the flute and the violin well.
            Once the force at the Journal, early in the fifties, decided to
                    go fishing on Sunday, and, that there might be no interruption with the program,
                    closed the forms and ran off Monday's paper at 4 o'clock
                    Saturday afternoon. Sulgrove was in a barber-shop getting shaved when the
                    carrier came along crying out the paper and delivering the Monday edition.
                    "See here, Mr. Sulgrove," said some one present,
                    "what kind of a paper is this that purports to give the Monday news in
                    Saturday's edition?" "What's that,"
                    exclaimed the editor, and on finding what was being done he ran out into the
                    street with the barber's tools clinging to him, overtook the carrier
                    and compelled him to go back and gather up all the papers distributed. The
                    fishing party was broken up.
            
            It never seemed to be necessary for Mr. Sulgrove to consult authorities. He had
                    everything in his head. Judge Chapman once had the editors arrested for contempt
                    in publishing forbidden evidence in the Clem case. An able lawyer was employed
                    by the Court to defend its course. The lawyer cited the authorities ad libitum and was very profound. Late at night Colonel Holloway sent
                    for Mr. Sulgrove, had the lawyer's voluminous address read to him from
                    short-hand notes, and asked for an editorial in refutation. This Sulgrove wrote
                    promptly—nearly two columns—"skinning"
                    the attorney so effectually that he came to the Journal next
                    day and admitted that he had been beautifully, thoroughly and legally flayed.
                    The accuracy of his memory has been often tested. When he was in 
                
                    Paris
                 he confounded the sexton of a certain burial place by telling him
                    that a certain noted character was buried next to such and such a tomb.
                    "I read the description years ago," said he, and when the
                    sexton looked, the grave was found.
            Said Mr. E. H. Perkins, foreman of the News composing room:
            "Mr. Sulgrove was known by the printers all over the country. He had the
                    reputation of writing almost as bad a hand as Horace Greeley, but this
                    reputation was not due him. On the contrary he wrote the best
                    ‘copy’ that ever came to me. It had its peculiarities, but
                    these were offset by the absolute accuracy and infinite pains with which it had
                    been prepared. In all my years of acquaintance with his writing I do not
                    remember to have seen one mispelled word. He was thorough. All the printer had
                    to do was to ‘follow copy.’ It was always properly
                    capitalized, punctuated and paragraphed. He was one of the most agreeable men
                    the printers had to do with. He never became impatient nor quarreled over
                    mistakes. His copy was peculiar, as he wrote a very fine hand and scorned good
                    paper. He would write on backs of envelopes, on election tickets of twenty years
                    standing, on circulars and bits of brown paper. Sometimes he would write across
                    the face of printed matter and this would make the copy hard on the eye for old
                    men, but the younger men never had any trouble in deciphering him, and proof of
                    his matter was generally the cleanest in the office. Of late, he has been
                    writing on slips eight or ten inches long by about one or two wide. He would
                    write a heavy leader on a bit of waste paper and never cause the printer to
                    frown.
            
            "I remember an incident told me by a Mr. P. When Sulgrove was editor of
                    the Journal Mr. P. was a frequent but somewhat unsuccessful
                    contributor. One day he went to the editor and remarked, ‘Mr.
                    Sulgrove, I have prepared with great care an article that I think will interest
                    everybody, and I hope you will find room for it.’
            "‘Why, yes; that's all right,’ replied
                    Sulgrove, who had a cigar in his mouth. He didn't even look at the
                    article, but crumpling it up, made a torch of it in the gas jet and quietly
                    applied the flame to his cigar. Mr. P. was so annoyed that he said nothing and
                    neither did the editor. ‘I never could tell whether it was
                    absent-mindedness or intentional rebuff,’ concluded Mr. P.,
                    ‘but I incline to the belief that it was not intended for an
                    affront.’"
         
         
            JOHN D. DEFREES.
            [Obituary sketch by Berry R. Sulgrove, written at the time of Mr.
                    Defrees's death, October 19, 1892.]
            A LIFE falling short a few days of seventy-three years, the allotted span of
                    "three score and ten" spent in the busiest activity, a year or
                    two of restraint by reason of failing powers, eight or nine months of suffering
                    pitiful to think of, and the record of John D. Defrees's life is
                    closed. The outlines which marked it for the world may be briefly told. Born at
                            
                                Sparta
                            , 
                
                    Tennessee
               , November 8, 1810,
                    he was eight years old when his father moved to 
                        Piqua
                    , 
                        Ohio
                    . In his fourteenth year he was apprenticed to the
                    printers' trade. After serving his time he studied law in the office of
                    "Tom" Corwin, at 
                        Lebanon
                    , 
                
                    Ohio
                . In 1831 he moved to 
                
                    South Bend
                , Indiana, where with his younger brother, Joseph H. Defrees, he
                    began the publication of a newspaper. He became prominent in politics as a Whig,
                    and was several times elected to the legislature. In 1844 he sold his 
                
                    South Bend
                 newspaper to Schuyler Colfax, whom he had given a start in life,
                    and moving to this city the next year, bought the Indiana State
                        Journal, which he edited until he sold it ten years afterward. Of his
                    connection with the Atlas newspaper, which was established
                    with an eye to political rather than pecuniary  results, with the Central Bank and the stave
                    factory he and his brother Anthony started, now owned by Mr. Carey, and his part
                    in the management of the 
                
                    Peru
                
                railroad, as it was then called, little need be said, as they
                    illustrate merely the uncontrollable energy of his nature.
            In 1861 he was appointed by President Lincoln government printer. He held the
                    office until Johnson, angered at some criticism of his, removed him. Congress
                    made it a senate office, and he was reappointed in thirty days. He held it until
                    1869, when his opposition to Grant and enmity to the late Senator Morton
                    afforded them an occasion which they improved by turning him out. At the coming
                    in of President Hayes he was appointed again to the same place, which he held
                    until about last February, declining health compelling his resignation.
            This framework of a life seems plain enough, but as every one's skeleton
                    is the same, the difference in appearance being the filling in of the flesh, so
                    in this life there was a side, which those who knew him best saw most of, that
                    made it an inspiration. It was all the difference there is between an existence
                    which floats with the current of affairs and a life driven by the force of an
                    unconquerable will toward the goal of a lofty ambition. He was a natural
                    political student and had the gift of political management, and the associates
                    of his early days speak of his rare sagacity and his untiring energy. He was a
                    general business man for his party here, which, during the whole time of his
                    editorship of the State organ, the Journal, was in the
                    minority. He was chairman of the State committee at one time, and always, those
                    who worked with him say, the adviser and general conductor of affairs. He could
                    unite two or three antagonisms into a common purpose, and when there were
                    factional or personal differences Defrees was called in to smooth them out and
                    restore good feeling. He had the keeenest sense of humor, which his pluck and
                    ceaseless activity were ever ready to carry into anecdote or practical joke.
                    When the three hundred volunteers went to the Black Hawk war, arriving at the
                    scene of action only to find the war ended, Defrees, then editing his paper at 
                
                    South Bend
                , saw the comical side of it, and came out with a sketch of what
                    they didn't do, calling them the "Bloody Three
                    Hundred." The fun hit so hard that most of the three hundred were ready
                    for  blood indeed, and they went to the
                    young editor's home and called him out for the purpose of ducking him
                    in a pond. He came, but instead of apologizing, ridiculed and defied them
                    without stint, until in admiration of his pluck, and in shame for a hundred or
                    two against one, they withdrew.
             His energy from his earliest days was remarkable. His newspaper at 
                 
                     South Bend
                  was the first one in northern Indiana, and at every turn of affairs
                    he was seeking something new, some improvement. "Progress"
                    seemed to be his watchword. He was the first man in Indiana to use steam to
                    drive a printing press; the first to use a caloric engine for the same purpose;
                    the first to see the value of the Bullock printing press and encourage the
                    inventor; the first to use the metallic stitching machine for book-binders; the
                    first to use the Edison electric light.
            His faith in progress and human kind, and his restless energy which halted at
                    nothing, permeated and colored his whole life. It supplied for himself the
                    deficiencies of early systematic training. What the experience of the
                    printers' trade and the acquisitions of a young law student might give
                    in the way of knowledge, it may be imagined were of themselves barren enough.
                    But to him these were the keys with which he might unlock learning's
                    storehouse. Books were his delight. He overcame the lack of a classical
                    education by a thorough study of translations, and the lore of 
                
                    Greece
                
                and 
                    Rome
                 was his familiar acquaintance. He was especially fond of history,
                    and there were few classical works in this line, ancient or modern, which he did
                    not know. He was a deep political student and particularly knew the political
                    history of his own country as few know it. He was an unwearied student and thus
                    as the years went on he became equipped with all the mental outfit of a
                    gentleman. He had a correct literary taste and was as quick to discern genius or
                    special talent here as in other things. He wrote with a perspicuity almost such
                    as Horace Greeley's was, and with a terse Saxon force and direct
                    "drive" at the purpose in hand, rare in these days. Those who
                    were near to him, or came in contact with him in the direction of affairs, he
                    acted upon with the characteristic qualities of his nature. He left his impress.
                    He was an influence, and many there are who can rise up and call  him blessed, in the memory of the chaste and
                    elevating force that influence was.
            He was a man of the rarest courage; a courage that seemed to have no weak side,
                    mental, moral or physicial. The furthest possible remove from a brawler in his
                    nature, an acquaintance with him never failed to make it plain that he would
                    fight on call. This coupled with the knowledge that he was a "dead
                    shot" with a rifle, perhaps conspired to make a career among the
                    turbulent scenes of politics singularly free from personal disturbances. Of his
                    mental courage, his never failing faith in the power of attainments has already
                    spoken. His moral courage, as is shown forth in a life free of dross as few
                    lives are, was rare indeed. He had the loftiest sense of honor, and the hottest
                    anger and bitterest contempt for a dishonorable, dishonest or mean thing; and
                    condemnation of such leaped to his lips in a moment, for he had all the
                    "quickness" of the nervous temperament. But so patiently did
                    he work for its control, so thoroughly did he conquer himself, that in his later
                    life few knew from the calm exterior the rage that took hold of him at the sight
                    of a wrong or meanness. His integrity was flawless. He had not merely the heart
                    to mean rightly, but the head to do rightly, and in his daily walk and
                    conversation he was truth and honesty incarnate. This is the testimony of those
                    who knew him as he lived among them. The writer knew him in a personal and
                    household way also, and so knowing him he knows of his unvarying sweetness, his
                    cheeriness that brightened intercourse and his encouragement constantly to lofty
                    ideals and noble deeds.
            All his life Mr. Defrees had not been a professor of religion, but if religion is
                    a life he was one of its noblest exemplars. Last June he joined the
                    Congregational Church at 
                        Washington
                    , and took the sacrament. He was then unable to leave his room.
                    Before and since then he was afflicted in a way that no medical skill could
                    control, and for months he suffered as let us hope few of us may suffer. There
                    was little bitterness of physical agony that he did not endure. His prayer was
                    to die.
         
         
         
            A NEWSPAPER INDEX.
            "WESTERN CENSOR" AND "JOURNAL," OF
                
                    INDIANAPOLIS
                , 1823 TO 1827, INCLUSIVE—FIRST INSTALMENT.
            [The Western Censor and Emigranl's Guide, the second
                paper launched in 
                
                    Indianapolis
                , and its successor, the Indiana Journal, are the
                    only early papers of which there are complete files accessible to the public.
                    For that reason they have a particular value, and the following index may prove
                    of interest and service to many of our readers. The classification of newspaper
                    matter is difficult owing to its heterogeneous character. In this index we have,
                    with a few exceptions, confined ourselves to such matter as bears, directly or
                    indirectly, upon the history of 
                
                    Indianapolis
                , or which reflects phases of early life there. We have deemed the
                    chronological arrangement preferable to the alphabetical scheme. The first issue
                    of The Western Censor appeared March 7, 1823. January 11,
                    1825, it became The Indiana Journal. The bound files may be
                found in the 
                
                    Indianapolis
                 Public Library.]
            
               1823—WESTERN CENSOR.
            
            
               First issue, reasons for delay of.—March 7.
               
                   
                       Indianapolis
                   , description of.—March 7.
               Communications, excess of.—April 2.
               Sunday-school, first meeting of, to be held at Scudder's
                        cabinet-shop.—April 2. (Other matter pertaining to Sunday-school
                        throughout early numbers.)
               Roads, State.—May 14.
               Squirrel killing.—May 14.
               Divorce cases.—May 14.
               Northern Indiana.—May 21.
               Advertisement for books loaned.—May 21.
                Trees, law affecting the cutting of in 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    .—June 4.
               Mails.—June 11.
               Presbyterian church, the first.—June 11. (See also June 18.)
                Indians on White river, and white woman
                        captive.—June 11.
               
                   White river.—June 18.
               Contribution: "Humphrey Ploughshare's"
                        criticism of town ways.—June 18.
               Fourth of July barbecue (ad.)—June 25.
               Merchandise: New store and list of articles kept.—July 2.
               Letters advertised.—July 2. [Lists of letters of considerable
                        length were periodically published, and the custom seems curious.  Why, in a backwoods village of six
                        hundred people, should the advertising of unclaimed letters be necessary?]
               Fourth of July oration, by Morris Morris.—July 9.
               Advertisement: "Attention to Borrowers!"—July
                        9.
               Candidates for office, list of.—July 16.
                Rattlesnakes in 
                    
                        Marion county
                    .—Aug. 18.
               
                   
                       Indianapolis
                   
                   , population of, 600 or 700 people (editorial).—Sept.
                        22.
               Contribution: "Conduct to be Observed on Entering a
                        Store" (satirical).—Sept. 29.
               
                   
                       Indianapolis
                   
                   and the New Purchase.—Oct. 6.
               Roads.—Oct. 20. (See also Dec. 15.)
               Apple trees and nursery.—Oct. 20.
                Delinquent taxes, sale of lots for in 
                    Indianapolis
                
                    .—Dec. 1. (Christopher Harrison, commissioner, a lot
                        holder).
            
            
               1824—
            
               Tavern: Thomas Chinn's "Traveller's
                        Hall."—Jan. 5.
               Prices of corn, pork and potatoes (ad.)—Jan. 5.
               Population, influx of in anticipation of coming
                        legislature.—Feb. 16.
               Donation lands, advertisement for leasing.—Feb. 16.
               Furs and tallow for subscriptions, etc. (ad.)—Feb. 16.
               Social supper.—Feb. 24.
               Public Meeting "to consult on the propriety of taking care of the
                        graveyard."—March 8. (Also March 16.)
                Mails; six weeks to 
                    
                        Bloomington
                    .—March 22.
               Tan-yard near Pogue's run.—March 22.
               Potatoes, varieties of; Early Whites, Large Red, Long Pale Red, Large
                        Early Blue.—March 22.
               School, teachers, etc.—April 5 (first column.)
                Indian murders at 
                    
                        Pendleton
                     (differing somewhat from the ordinary
                        account).—April 5.
               Plasterer, advertisement of; probably the first.—April 5.
               Chairs for legislative halls, advertisement for.—April 19.
               Commodities for currency: Merchandise in exchange for "ginseng,
                        beeswax, honey, sugar, deer and fur skins, or almost anything else in
                        preference to promises. For cash only, powder, shot, whisky, salt."
                        (John Givan's ad.)—April 26.
               Sunday-school, long report about; also editorial.—May 3.
               
               Importation: Arrival of keel-boat, "Dandy," with 28 tons
                        of salt and whisky.—May 17.
               
                  
                      Danville
                        , locating of.—July 20. (Also Aug. 31).
               School examination.—July 13. (School matter in July 27.)
               Captain Riley, famous traveler, located on St. Mary's
                            river.
                Advocate of Wabash
                    canal.—Aug. 31.
                Emigration to 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    .—Oct. 19.
               Sale of Donation out-lots (ad.)—Nov. 16.
               Military election.—Dec. 7. (Also Dec. 14.
            
            
               1825—INDIANA JOURNAL.
            
               Legislature: Coming of the legislators, etc. First
                        meeting.—Jan. 11.
               Mails, arrival of.—Jan. 18.
                Land office, James B. Ray on removal of to 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    .—Jan. 25.
               Legislators, nativity of.—Feb. 1.
               
                   
                       Indianapolis
                   , letter about.—Feb. 1. (Also Feb. 8)
               Whetzell's trace: Petition of Jacob Whetzell praying compensation
                        for cutting trace (in Senate proceedings).—Feb. 15.
               Female Bible Society formed.—April 19.
                Manufacture of glass at 
                    
                        New Albany
                    .—April 26.
                Lots in 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    , prices of.—May 3.
               Sabbath school.—May 3.
               James B. Ray, campaign letter to the public.—June 7. (For
                        burlesque on Ray, see July 19).
               Agricultural Society.—July 26. (See also, for formation of
                        society, Sept. 6).
                Land office, coming of, to 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    .—Sept. 27.
                Settlers, coming of; prospects of 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    .—Sept. 27.
                Road to 
                    
                        Fort Wayne
                    , laying out of; mention of Indian trace.—Oct. 11.
               Bible Society, forming of.—Nov. 29.
            
            
               1826—
            
               Sabbath school for adults.—April 16.
               John Conner, death of.—April 25. (For W. H. Harrison on John
                        Conner see July 20, 1824. Conner's estate, Nov. 28).
                Population of 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    .—March 7. (760 people; 200 voters; 61 unmarried men;
                        48 unmarried women).
               National Road.—Nov. 14.
                Bible Society, 
                    
                        Marion county
                    .—Nov. 21.
            
            
            
               1827—
            
               Legislature and State conditions.—Jan. 2.
               Alexander Ralston, death of; with sketch.—Jan. 9.
               
                   
                       Indianapolis
                    in 1827.—Feb. 20.
               Leasings on the Donation.—Feb. 20.
               Female Bible Society.—March 20.
                Indian treaty.—March 27. (Treaty of Oct. 16, 1826, securing 
                    
                        Michigan
                     road lands, and signed by all concerned. These signatures not
                        appended to the official report in American State Papers. Also,
                        "reserves" specified.)
                Lots, sale of in 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    (ad.)—April 3. (Also May 15).
               Mail routes.—May 1. (Also Aug. 7).
               
                   White river, description of.—May 1.
               Rattlesnake oil, advertisement for.—June 5.
               Internal improvement.—June 19. (Also June 26, Nov. 13).
               Indiana, description of.—June 19.
               Wolves, bounty on.—June 19.
               Railroads.—July 3.
               Church worker in Indiana, letter from.—July 3.
               Jacob Whetzell, death of and short sketch.—July 3.
               Indians, the Delawares.—July 17.
                
                    
                        Morristown
                    , first sale of lots in.—Aug. 21.
                Vocal music society, meeting in 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     to establish one.—Aug. 28.
               Educational: Private teaching of grammar (ad.)—Sept. 18.
                "
                    Muncytown
                ," sale of lots in.—Sept. 18.
                Imports to 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     (editorial).—Oct. 2.
               Methodist ministers and stations.—Oct. 2.
               
                   
                       Indianapolis
                    Academy, "commencement" of.—Oct.
                        9.
               Indiana, north boundary of.—Nov. 6. (Also March 27).
               Indians, attitude toward.—Nov. 6.
               Public lands, kind of pay accepted for.—Nov. 13.
               
                   
                       Indianapolis
                   , improvements in.—Nov. 20.
               Emigration to northern Indiana.—Nov. 20.
               Lumber, Caleb Scudder's advertisement for 25,000 feet of cherry
                        and poplar.—Dec. 4.
               Map of Indiana (ad.)—Dec. 4. (Also Jan. 10).
            
         
         
         
            DEPARTMENT OF GENEALOGY AND FAMILY HISTORY.
             EDITED BY MARY E. CARDWILL, 318 East Fifth Street, 
                 
                     New Albany
                 
                 , Indiana.
            [Queries and answers concerning ancestors and family history will be gladly
                    received.]
            THE POINDEXTER FAMILY.
            
            THE earliest known records of this family reach back to about
                    1250 when Geoffrey and Raoul Poingdestre are listed as Norman Huguenot land-owners in the Isle of Jersey.
            The founder of the house of 
                Granville
                     was George Poingdestre, who married Geritte, niece of Sir Thomas
                    Ahier. George Poingdestre died in 1544, and his eldest son, Edward, married
                    Margaret, daughter of Clement Messeroy, in 1562. Their eldest son, Thomas, born
                    in 1581, married Elizabeth Effard. Their children were Philip, Jacob, George and
                    Rachel.
            George settled in 
                Virginia
            , 1640 or '50, in the present 
                
                    New Kent
                 or 
                    Charles City
                     counties. A missing link leaves a blank in the family history until
                about 1700 when John Poindexter was appointed by the Governor of 
                
                    Virginia
                 one of the Commissioners to organize 
                
                    Louisa county
                     from a part of 
                        Hanover county
                    . He was also a justice of the peace and a vestryman in
                    Fredricks-ville church, and a captain of cavalry. He married
                    Christine—, and had six children: John2,
                        Thomas2, William2, Joseph2, Ann2 who
                    married—Slaughter, and Sarah2 who
                    married—Tyron. Thomas2 married Lucy Jones,
                    daughter of Gabriel Jones, of 
                        Culpepper county
                    . Thomas's2 will, probated July 15,
                    1796, names the following children: John3, Gabriel3, Thomas3, Robert3,
                        James3, Richard3, George3, Elizabeth3, Lucy3
                    and Molly3. John3 married three times,
                became a celebrated Baptist preacher and was clerk of 
                
                    Louisa county
                , 
                
                    Virginia
                , for thirty years. James3, a farmer in 
                
                    Louisa county
                , married twice and left one son, Dr. James4
                    Poindexter, of 
                        Charlottesville
                    . Thomas3, a farmer at 
                
                        Green Springs
                , 
                
                    Virginia
                
                , married and left many children.
                Richard3 married a Miss Maer, and moved to 
                
                    North Carolina
                , where he became a most distinguished Baptist minister. He left one
                    son, Abraham4 Maer Poindexter. Robert3
                    settled in 
                
                    Kentucky
                . Some of his descendents are found in 
                
                    Vevay
                , Indiana. George3 moved to 
                
                    Mississippi
                , soon became prominent as a lawyer, was a member of the Territorial
                    Legislature, Delegate to Congress and Judge of Supreme Court. In 1820 he was
                    elected Governor of the State and later was 
                
                    United States
                 Senator for many years. Gabriel3, ancestor of
                most of the Indiana Poindexters, was born in 
                
                    Louisa county
                , 
                    Virginia
                , May 8, 1758, and died in 
                    Clark county
                , Indiana, August 28,1831. He was a soldier of the Revolution, 
                
                    Virginia
                 Line, Continental Establishment. He married Mary Swift, said to
                    have been a relative of Dean Swift, and some years later, about the beginning of
                    the nineteenth century, emigrated to 
                
                    Kentucky
                , where he lived near 
                    Lexington
                 for ten or twelve years, when he moved to 
                
                    New Albany
                , Indiana, in which place his wife died in 1820. The family then
                moved to 
                
                    Clark county
                , Indiana, near 
                
                    Sellersburg
                .
            The children of Gabriel3 Poindexter and Mary Swift Poindexter
                    were Merriwether4, born—; killed in the battle of
                the River Raisin. Cleviars4, born 1797,
                in 
                
                    Virginia
                
                ; married Nancy Holland, May 22,1823. Elizabeth4, born 1801, in 
                
                    Kentucky
                ; married John Adams, of 
                
                    Clark county
                , Indiana, December 1, 1827; died March 23, 1866. Moses4, died young. Lucy4, married Mr.
                Underwood, of 
                
                    Kentucky
                . Harriet4, married Felix Lane. Margaret4, married John Hancock, October 20, 1839. Polly4, married John Greene. John4, died
                    young. Catherine4, died young.
             Cleviars4 married Nancy Holland, born in 
                 
                     Virginia
                 
                 , May 22, 1823. Their children were: Moses3,
                    born 1824. Married (1) Sally Littell, August 22, 1844; (2) Anna Littell,
                    November 19, 1864. Died 1895; left five children. He was a man of ability and
                    prominence and was State Senator. Elizabeth5, born 1825.
                    Married David Hay, September 4, 1844. Gabriel5, born 1827.
                    Married Mary F. Willey, February 5, 1851. He was Captain of Company H,
                    Thirty-eighth Indiana Regiment, in the Civil War. He died in 1890. His children
                    were Fountin6, Charles6, Harry6, Bertha6, Mary6
                 and Frank6, all prominent people in 
                 
                     Jeffersonville
                  and vicinity. George5, born 1829. Married
                    Amanda Anson. Randall5, born 1831. Married (1) Helen Root;
                    (2) Julia—. Was a surgeon in the Civil War. Died 1890. John5, born 1833. Married Margaret—. Was  also a surgeon in the Civil War. Margaret5, born 1836. Married (1) Absalom Sellers, November 13,
                    1854; (2) John Eisman. Died 1892.
            Elizabeth4, daughter of Gabriel Poindexter, married John
                Adams, December 21, 1827, in 
                
                    Clark county
                , but soon after moved to 
                
                    New Albany
                
                , where she died. Children of John and Elizabeth Adams were: John
                        Quincey5, born March 31, 1829; died April 19, 1903.
                        Albert5, born December 11, 1830; died December
                    15,—. Thomas5, born September 7, 1832; married
                    Margaret Hansborough. Died August, 1895. Had two daughters: Molly6, married George Slaughter, of 
                
                    Kentucky
                ; and Bessie6. Mary5, born
                    May 7, 1834; married Jacob Miller. William Newton5, born
                    1836; died 1837. Elizabeth5, born November 23, 1838; married
                    John O. Greene; has one child, Alice6. George Wesley5, born July 16, 1842.
         
         
            TAYLOR'S STEAM PRINTING MACHINE.
            THIS number of the Journal is printed on an
                elegant Steam Printing Machine just put up for us by Mr. A. B. Taylor, of 
                
                    New York
                —the patentee. The machine and the engine by which it is
                    propelled (which, in fact, is a part of the machine itself), is the most
                    complete of the kind now in use. The boiler which supplies the engine with steam
                    is about the size of a pork barrel, and only requires an eighth of a cord of
                    wood to run it ten hours! The machine itself is capable of throwing off three
                    thousand sheets per hour, though the usual rate of working it at our office will
                    be at the rate of two thousand an hour, requiring but one hand to feed it! It
                    has attracted great attention, and we invite all who may wish to see it to call
                    at our Press room and gratify their curiosity.
            This extraordinary facility will enable us to keep our columns open much longer
                    than heretofore, so that our subscribers will get all the news received by us up
                    to the hour of publication.
            This enterprise has been accomplished at a great expense, and we confidently look
                    to the Whigs of the State to increase our circulation in such manner as will
                    afford us ample remuneration.—From Indiana State Journal
                        (weekly ed.), June 22, 1847.
            
         
         
         
            EDITORIAL AND MISCELLANEOUS.
            PUBLIC LIBRARIES AND NEWSPAPERS.
            That librarianship as a science is now but in its infancy is a fact that is
                    recognized, doubtless, by most modern librarians. When library work shall have
                    developed more fully along the many lines that are destined to come within its
                    scope, not its least important function will be the indexing and organizing of
                    the great mass of valuable material that is continually passing through the
                    newspaper press. There is great need to emphasize the importance of this task,
                    which, up to the present, seems to have received little attention. It is, we
                    presume, a quite safe proposition that the library aims to be a school for the
                    people—a promoter of information, and one kind of information of
                    considerable importance is a knowledge of the character of a society by the
                    people who form it. The great source of such information is the newspapers,
                    which reflect the community life and spirit as nothing else does. A newspaper
                    index, intelligently compiled, would be a record or synopsis of the forces that
                    have made a community what it is, whether for good or bad. It would be a
                    chronological list of social movements, of the notable performances of men, and
                    of a great variety of facts, valuable, interesting and curious, which, without
                    such guide, are speedily swallowed up in oblivion and their lessons lost. To be
                    specific, 
                
                    Terre Haute
                 has, during the last half-year, been subjected to an experience
                    that is of State-wide interest. In the fight against that threatening depravity
                    which is continually showing its head everywhere, she affords an object-lesson
                    that is worthy of elaborate study. In another year's time the whole
                    chapter will be buried away so completely as to be practically forgotten,
                    significant though it is. He who wishes to investigate that crusade against
                    unrighteousness should be able to go to the 
                
                    Terre Haute
                 library and by its index be guided readily to all the salient
                points of the case as chronicled by the contemporary papers. As with 
                
                    Terre Haute
                , so, in varying degree, with 
                    every town in the State. The laws of growth and retrogression are going on
                    always and everywhere, and wherever the newspaper exists it is holding the
                    mirror up to nature—if we but know how to interpret the newspaper. As
                    its contents lie scattered through the columns, they are little more than waste
                    matter, but selected and organized, the inconsequential eliminated, they present
                    the very texture of our civilization. The first step toward a history of our
                    State that shall be worthy the name must be this cooperative organizing of a
                    mass of material too extensive for the individual to compass. The work done by
                    the local libraries should be a stimulus and aid to the minor students, and
                    these students will prepare the way for the historian proper. At the present
                    stage it is all-essential that the vigorous and phenomenal library movement, now
                    asserting itself throughout our State, recognize in a broad way its relation to
                    current history and its opportunities as a conserver of the same.
            If we are rightly informed, there are but three of the larger libraries of the
                    country that are doing newspaper indexing. Of these, one is the Indiana State
                    Library, which has listed the more important contents of the leading 
                
                    Indianapolis
                
                papers from 1898 to the present time. This guide to the files, as
                    people learn of it, is coming more and more into popular use, the newspapers
                    themselves being among the most frequent patrons. The State Library scheme is,
                    of course, much more extensive than a local library would adopt, and yet an hour
                    or two a day suffices for the work. In the average local library ten or fifteen
                    minutes a day would doubtless be ample time for indexing a mass of reference
                    material that would have an abiding interest and value.
            MORE REVOLUTIONARY GRAVES.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                           
                               BRAZIL, IND.
                           ,
                                        July 12, 1906.
                        
                                    Editor Indiana Magazine of History
                                
                        SIR:—You have given information
                                    regarding Revolutionary soldiers' graves in several
                                    counties, which proves interesting to many people. I desire to
                                    report for 
                                        Clay county
                                     the following Revolutionary soldiers and the
                                    location of their graves:
                        Lawrence Thompson and Amos Kelley are buried in the Zenor
                            cemetery, on Birch creek, six miles south of 
                            
                                Brazil
                            . Thompson 
                            served in a 
                            
                                North Carolina
                             regiment. Some time after the close of the
                                    Revolutionary War, he settled in 
                                        Harrison county
                                    , Indiana; thence to 
                            
                                Clay county
                            , where he died some time in the forties, aged about
                                    108. Numerous descendants still live in this county. Kelley has
                                    no known descendants in the county, and little is known of his
                                    history other than the fact that he was a soldier of the
                                    Revolution. The Board of Commissioners of 
                            
                                Clay county
                            , with the unanimous consent of the County Council,
                                    at the suggestion of a few citizens, made an appropriation of
                                    two hundred dollars for a monument to each of their graves. The
                                    monuments were lettered and set up several months ago, and on
                                    July 4, 1906, a meeting was held at the cemetery, and the
                                    monuments duly dedicated.
                        John Yocom, a Revolutionary soldier, is buried in a private
                            family graveyard, two miles south of 
                            
                                Brazil
                            
                            , which has long been in disuse.
                        John Hopper and Benjamin Wheeler, are buried in another Zenor
                                    cemetery a short distance south of 
                                        Bowling Green
                                    , the old county seat.
                         This makes five buried in 
                             
                                 Clay county
                             . There may be one or two more, but the above list
                                    includes all that are positively known.
                        
                           Yours truly,
                                    F. W. ROBERTSON
                           .
                     
                  
               
                
             In addition to the above Miss Mary E. Cardwill, of 
                 
                     New Albany
                 
                 , reports David Benton, and Arthur Parr, buried respectively in 
                     Jackson
                     and 
                        Washington
                     counties. There are some Revolutionary graves in 
                 
                     Bartholomew county
                 
                 , but we have not been able to ascertain the names. We also find
                 mention of Samuel Boyd, who died in 
                     Wayne county
                  in 1835. Boyd was the maternal grandfather of Judge E. B.
                 Martindale, of 
                 
                     Indianapolis
                 
                 . We would be glad to receive information of this character from
                    other readers.
            LOCAL HISTORY CONTRIBUTIONS.
            
               Reminiscences of an Indianian.—Capt. J. A. Lemcke,
                now of 
                
                    Indianapolis
                
                , a man of wide experience and varied fortunes, has published under
                    this title a private edition volume which narrates the ups and downs of a
                    somewhat checkered life. It is, in part, the story of a young man making his way
                    fifty or sixty  years ago. Of those times we
                    have many intimate glimpses of life and conditions that are a real contribution
                    to our history. His experiences as a river man on the 
                Mississippi, 
                Ohio, 
                Tennessee,
                Wabash and 
                White rivers 
                are especially interesting. In more recent years Captain
                    Lemcke was a man of some prominence in Indiana (Republican) politics. In 1886 he
                    was elected State Treasurer, and during President Harrison's
                    administration the office of 
                
                    United States
                 Treasurer was tendered him. His declining of this tempting offer
                    was so unusual that, as Mr. Lemcke says, "Frank Leslie, among others,
                    published my picture with the humorously satirical remark: ‘This is
                    the portrait of a man who refused office, and he from
                    Indiana.’" A wide acquaintance with men of note adds
                    not a little to the interest of Mr. Lemcke's recollections, and the
                    whole narrated with a pervasive strain of genuine humor makes the book
                    exceedingly readable, and one deserving of a fuller review than we have space
                    for.
            
                Reminiscences of Early 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                    .—The 
                    
                        Indianapolis
                     News, in its Saturday editions, has for some months been
                    running a series of papers, "Reminiscences of an Old
                    Reporter," which deal with the 
                
                    Indianapolis
                 of an earlier day. They are written by Charles Dennis, for many
                    years one of the best-known newspaper men in the city. His personal
                    recollections go back to a period antedating the war, and his long experience in
                    the reportorial field has brought him in wide contact with persons and given him
                    an intimate knowledge of events, which he sets forth graphically with the pen of
                    a trained writer. So far as his sketches present actual recollections they are
                    of distinct interest and value, and the more so because they deal with things
                    about which little or no information can be had from our written histories.
            
                Early Newspapers of 
                    
                        Richmond
                    .—In the 
                    Richmond
                     Sun-Telegram of February 26, 1906, is published a list of
                the 
                
                    Richmond
                 newspapers from 1820 to the present time, compiled by B. F.
                    Wissler. Twenty-eight papers are specified as existing in that time. The list,
                    Mr. Wissler tells us, is not absolutely complete, as even within that
                    comparatively narrow field some have passed wholly into oblivion. We are further
                    told that more than seventy-five papers have been published in 
                
                    Wayne county
                
                . In  Mr. Wissler's
                    list we note such odd names as The Family Schoolmaster, The Lily,
                        The Broad Axe of Freedom and Grubbing Hoe of Truth and The Humming
                    Bird.
            
               
                  
                      Tippecanoe
                         Battle Document.—In the 
                            
                                Lafayette
                             Morning Journal of June 23, 1906, is published a newly
                found document relating to the battle of 
                
                    Tippecanoe
                . This is an account of the fight by Judge Isaac Naylor, who was a
                    participant in it. The paper was found among the effects of Judge Naylor, now in
                    possession of his daughter, Mrs. Mary Naylor Whiteford, who was recently
                    visiting in 
                
                    Lafayette
                 . The account has in it a number of points not, we believe, to be
                    found elsewhere. We will, if possible, publish it in full in our next issue.
            
                Old Fort near 
                    
                        Richmond
                    .—In the 
                        
                            Richmond
                         Sun-Telegram, of July 4, 1906, O. S. Harrison publishes an
                interview with Isaac Lamb, an old citizen of 
                
                    Richmond
                , who remembered and described to the interviewer the blockhouse
                built in 1812, near the present site of 
                
                    Richmond
                . According to Mr. Lamb, the fort was about thirty feet square and
                    built of hewn logs fitted very closely together. The lower part of the building
                    was used for living purposes, and the second story, which overhung the first,
                    was supplied with port-holes, cut about waist high, that commanded the
                    surroundings. In its latter years the structure was used as a tool-house and
                    granary by Thomas Lamb, father of Isaac, who burned it down in 1830. Mr.
                    Harrison states that "Fort Smith," as he calls it, was on the
                    old Jacob Smith farm, but omits to locate it more definitely.∗ There were many of these old blockhouses located
                    throughout southern Indiana, and a record of them would be an interesting
                    addition to our frontier history
            
               
                  ∗Since the above was put in type we find in
                        another article by Mr. Harrison on the same subject (Sun-Telegram, June 2) that the blockhouse "was on the
                        river about one mile and a half west and north of where the court-house now
                        stands, on the place now occupied by Nathan P. Wilson, and near where his
                        house stands." It was built in 1812 by George Smith, Jesse Bond,
                        Valentine Pegg, Cornelius Ratliff and others of the neighborhood.
            
         
      
   
