
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 66, Issue 3, pages 197-298. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:66+issue:3+year:1970&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Autobiography of Dr. Edward A. Rumely: Student Days Abroad, 1900-1906
            Edited by Philip Morehouse McGarr∗
            
            Contributed by Mrs. Fanny Scott Rumely∗∗
            
            The first four completed chapters of the Edward A. Rumely autobiography, "The Formative
                    Years, 1882-1900," appeared in the Indiana Magazine of History in March,
                    1970. They included the author's account of the activities and events of his boyhood and
                    his recollection of pioneer life in La Porte, Indiana. Rumely also noted his forebears'
                    south German heritage; the immigration of his grandparents, the Rumelys, Zimmermans, Schweitzers,
                    and Fierstosses, from their homes in the Black Forest and Alsace-Lorraine following Carl
                    Schurz' abortive democratic revolution in Germany in 1848; the successful establishment of
                    an agricultural implement business by Grandfather Meinrad Rumely in La Porte in the 1850s; and the
                    wholesome and positive atmosphere, conducive to learning, in the Rumely home. Of particular import
                    were Rumely's comments concerning his informal and formal education. Because the Rumelys
                    and the Zimmermans were devout Roman Catholics, Edward received a parochial education which included
                    a year and a half at the University of Notre Dame. While at Notre Dame Rumely's
                    intellectual curiosity got him into trouble when he read and discussed openly the writings of
                    Charles Darwin, Herbert Spencer, and Henry George. In the spring term of 1900 he withdrew from the
                    university and made plans with his close friend and classmate, Alexander Lattimore, to travel and to
                    continue their education in Europe.1 In June the two young men went to New York
                    and sailed on a cattle boat for England.
            The next four completed chapters of the Rumely autobiography are reproduced below. "Student
                    Days Abroad, 1900-1906" includes the author's impressions, observations, and
                    experiences as a medical student in England and Germany. While in Europe Rumely took every
                    opportunity to travel and attended three universities. His first year was spent at Ruskin Hall in
                    Oxford, England; a second year at Heidelberg University, Heidelberg, Germany; and the last four and
                    one half years at Freiburg University, Freiburg, Baden, Germany. On May 2, 1906, Rumely received an
                    M.D. degree magna cum Zaude 
                  
                     ∗ Philip Morehouse McGarr is assistant professor of
                            history, Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, Florida.
                  
                     ∗∗ Mrs. Fanny Scott Rumely is the widow of
                            Edward A. Rumely.
                  
                     1 In 1912 Alexander Lattimore served on the secretarial staff of the
                            President of China, Sun Yat Sen. He remained in China for several years in order to study
                            Far Eastern affairs. He was the uncle of Owen Lattimore, who was born in China and
                            subsequently became one of America's most respected Asian scholars. See Nathaniel
                            Weyl, The Battle Against Disloyalty (New York, 1951), 239-61.
               
                     and completed the requirements for a degree in economics at
                        Freiburg.2
            
            Of particular interest are Rumely's comments on the work-study program at Ruskin Hall; his
                    discussion of the cooperative British labor movement; his mention of correspondence with Leo Tolstoy
                    on proper diet and educational philosophy;3 and his observations of English
                    society. After a successful year of study in England he decided to continue his education in
                    Germany. Fluent in German, his grandparents' native tongue, Rumely experienced an ease of
                    communication which made it possible for him to be both understood and appreciated by his fellow
                    students and faculty members at Heidelberg and Freiburg universities.
            While a student at Heidelberg University Rumely was fortunate to meet the inventor Rudolph Diesel.
                    Rumely describes their conversation about the internal combustion engine, which used crude oil
                    instead of gasoline, and the exhilaration he felt at the possibility that Diesel's
                    invention might revolutionize mechanized farming.
            Rumely's student days at Freiburg University were particularly valuable for the lifelong
                    friends he made. Gerhart von Schulze-Gaevernitz, professor of economics and government, recognized
                    the young student's ability and often invited him to his home for supper and long
                    philosophical discussions.4' The professor made Rumely his graduate
                    assistant and took him to London for an eight week research trip where he had the opportunity to eat
                    supper with Joseph Chamberlain, Sydney Goldmann, and Sir Arthur Jones.5
            
            The Freiburg environment stimulated Rumely to write several articles on conservation and forestry
                    practices in the Black Forest, Freiburg's city government, and the merits of health
                    insurance. These articles were published in the American magazine, The Pilgrim
               6. 
                  
                     2 Rumely's doctoral dissertation was a pioneer study on the
                            inflammation of the vermiform appendix. See Edward A. Rumely, Über
                                Die Beziehungen der Appendicitis zu den Weiblachen Generationsorganen (Freiburg,
                            1906), Rumely Papers (Lilly Library, Indiana University, Bloomington).
                  
                     3 Mrs. Rumely believes the Tolstoy letters have since been lost.
                            Interview with Mrs. Fanny Scott Rumely, April 26, 1970.
                  
                     4 Professor Gerhart von Schulze-Gaevernitz is the author of sixteen
                            books and a specialist on European diplomacy, government, and economics. See, for example,
                            Gerhart von Schulze-Gaevernitz, Britischer Imperialismus Und Englischer
                                Freihandel zu Beyinn des Zwanzigsten, Jahrhunderts. (Leipzig, 1906); Gerhart von
                            Schulze-Gaevernitz, England Und Deutschland (Berlin, 1911).
                  
                     5 Joseph Chamberlain was a successful Birmingham industrialist and the
                            father of Sir Austen and Neville Chamberlain. He served as republican mayor of Birmingham in
                            1873-1876 and president of the Board of Trade, 1880-1885, and from 1895-1903 he served in
                            Lord Salisbury's cabinet as colonial secretary. See R. C. K. Ensor, England, 1870-1914 (Oxford, 1936), 33, 36, 71, 233-36. Sydney Goldmann was an
                            associate of Cecil Rhodes in South Africa and the brother of Dr. Edwin Goldmann, a member of
                            the faculty at Freiburg University. Sir Arthur Jones was a member of Parliament and a
                            prominent attorney in London.
                  
                     6 Willis John Abbott was the editor of The Pilgrim.
                            which was published in Battle Creek, Michigan, from 1899 to 1907. Abbott's career
                            also included editorships
               
                     Rumely's desire to improve society, even as a student
                    abroad, was in tune with the progressive movement in the United States. President Theodore Roosevelt
                    read the young man's articles on Black Forest conservation practices and corresponded with
                    him. The President invited Rumely, upon his return to the United States, to join the progressive
                    drive for the preservation of natural resources.7 Rumely took advantage of
                    Roosevelt's invitation and became close friends with both the President and Gifford
                    Pinchot, the ardent conservationist.
            Rumely as a student abroad accomplished much between 1900-1906. Upon his return to the United States
                    he was soon able to apply much of what he had learned. His dream of being headmaster of his own
                    school became a reality when he founded Interlaken, a college preparatory school for boys. As
                    headmaster of Interlaken he experimented with progressive educational ideas which he had formulated
                    in Europe. To earn capital to expand Interlaken he entered his family's agricultural
                    implement business, the M. Rumely Company. A third installment of the Rumely autobiography covering
                    the author's experiences at Interlaken and his management of the Rumely farm implement
                    business is tentatively scheduled for a future issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History.
            
            
               with William Randolph Hearst's newspapers and the Christian Science
                            Monitor.. See Frank Luther Mott (ed.), History of American Magazines
                        (5 vols. Cambridge, Mass., 1957), IV, 362, 617. Complete serials of The
                        Pilgrim can be found in the Library of Congress, the New York Public Library, Harvard
                        University, and the Burton Historical Collection in the Detroit Public Library.
               
                  7 Theodore Roosevelt to Edward A. Rumely, October 17, 26, 1906. Rumely
                        Papers.
            
            
            CHAPTER SIX
            
                    OXFORD 1
               
                
            Half way across the Atlantic, our ship lost a propeller blade. This slowed down our crossing and kept
                    us and the bellowing, odoriferous steers below decks at sea for two and a half weeks.
            Figuratively as well as literally I was at sea. My grandmothers and my father apparently still hoped
                    I would enter the church, for the report in LaPorte's daily newspaper that I was going
                    abroad to study for the priesthood clearly came from some family source. But not from Grandfather
                    Meinrad. I believe he sensed that realization of his hope of my taking over the
                    business he had founded depended upon my getting out into the world.
            For an American youth, I had read much beyond my years. I was a quick student, and most of my
                    education had come from learning by myself and not from being taught. When I was staying with Father
                    Schweitzer at Sinsinnawa Mound,2 I progressed much faster by devoting only a
                    short period each day to study than had I spent longer hours in a schoolroom. It was there that I
                    discovered that if I started a train of thought before going to sleep, my sub-conscious worked on
                    the problem during the night, and I had the answer in the morning.
            Having found out how I could push myself forward, I deliberately read textbooks the year before I got
                    them in class and thus got a picture of the subject in advance of studying it. This gave me
                    self-assurance 
                  
                     1 The version of the Rumely autobiography which appears below is that
                            prepared by Samuel Thurston Williamson, a family friend of many years and a staff writer for
                            the New York Times and former editor of Newsweek. from
                            the typescript of the wire recordings provided by Edward A. Rumely. The
                            "Williamson" manuscript script was typed, triple spaced, in pica type. The
                            present editor worked with a carbon copy of this version of the Rumely autobiography on
                            which were a number of handwritten additions and/or deletions. Since it was impossible to
                            ascertain exactly when—or by whom—the changes in the
                            "Williamson" manuscript were made, the following practices have been used
                            in preparing the autobiography for publication: words which were obviously added or deleted
                            when the original manuscript was typed have been added or deleted in this reproduction:
                            words which were marked out at a later time have been printed with a line through them;
                            handwritten additions have been reproduction in italics. Throughout the manuscript there
                            were occasional handwritten words which were illegible or seemingly irrelevant. These have
                            been omitted. Obvious typographical errors—such as hat for had, figures for
                            figured, school for school, propserous for prosperous— have been corrected.
                            Otherwise, spelling, punctuation, and grammar have been retained exactly as in the original.
                            Whenever possible, people and places have been identified either in brackets in the text or
                            in footnotes.
                  
                     2 Father Schweitzer, a cousin of Rumely's mother, had a large
                            parish and two mission churches at Sinsinnawa Mound in lower Wisconsin. For
                            Rumely's experiences there see Philip Morehouse McGarr (ed.), "The
                            Autobiography of Dr. Edward A. Rumely: The Formative Years, 1882-1900." Indiana Magazine of History. LXVI (March, 1970), 32-33.
               
                     in my studies that I did not have regarding my future.
            I had read books which were on the frontier of public thought. Above all, I had developed, as
                    exemplified by my temporary devotion to Henry George's single tax, enthusiasm for a
                        cause.3 And in the next half century I would have many enthusiasms and
                    embrace many causes. On the whole, these attributes were advantages. They accustomed me to driving
                    ahead of my lights. And yet, three or four times during my life I have, to my cost, embarked upon
                    ventures before their public acceptance and saw late-comers reap the rewards.
            By now I knew that, temperamentally, I was not suited for the priesthood. When he backed me against a
                    radiator at Notre Dame, Father Morrissy excoriated my stubbornness.4 Dr. Austin
                    O'Malley, my English teacher, had noted my independence and had pointedly questioned the
                    peace of mind my restlessness would give my bishops and other religious superiors should I enter
                    holy orders.
            Nor did I find that my first thoughts centered on Grandfather's machine shops. Grandfather
                    had influenced me greatly. He had taught me to reason simply and to learn by observation and
                    experience, as when he took me out to his farm and made me thresh wheat with a flail and thus answer
                    for myself my question why he had built threshing machines. Thanks to my mother, I worked with my
                    hands before I went to school. Thanks also to her, I discovered the value of "learning by
                    doing," and all my young life, up to going to Notre Dame, I tended and guided my smaller
                    brothers and sisters and had the limited but no less valuable experience of directing and molding
                    younger minds and habits.
            While still a student, with my own education far from complete, I had found that education is not
                    solely one of teachers, blackboards, textbooks, professors, lectures, learning by rote, examinations
                    and of waving some mystic pedagogical wand, but that the student simply educates himself. And so, I
                    looked forward to founding a school which would facilitate that self-education, which would not so
                    much "educate" boys but rather would encourage them to fit themselves for useful
                    lives.
            
               
                  3 Henry George, after observing the widespread economic hardship and
                        violence caused by the depression of 1873, wrote Progress and Poverty (New
                        York, 1879). George tried to explain the existence of poverty in a land of abundance. His
                        solution to America's economic ills was the imposition of a "single
                        tax" on any increase in the value of land. George contended that the increase in
                        property value was totally unearned. Therefore a 100 per cent tax should be levied upon the
                        owner; this would prevent the concentration of wealth and create new opportunities for
                        Americans. George's book was widely read throughout the country. In the 1880s many
                        "single tax" societies were formed across the United States. See Eric F.
                        Goldman, Rendezvous With Destiny (New York, 1960), 34-35, 46-47, 76-78.
               
                  4 The Reverend Andrew Morrissey was the eighth president of Notre Dame,
                        1893-1905. Arthur J. Hope, C.S.C., Notre Dame: One Hundred Years (rev. ed.,
                        Notre Dame, 1948), 252. For Rumely's account of his encounter with Father Morrissey see
                        McGarr, "The Formative Years," 35.
            
            
            Others, of course, were aware of the barrenness
                    incompleteness of formalized education of the day—an awareness that was
                    soon to be reflected in a "new school" movement which ultimately carried things to
                        extreme,5 But while others had similar thoughts I was thinking alone. How my
                    school should be organized, how it should be run, I had only the vaguest idea. Nor had I any clear
                    plan of fitting myself for that work. In the back of my mind, however, was the advice given me a few
                    months before by Louis W. Post, when I asked him what course of study to take up in preparation for
                    public life.6 (I was then dedicated to evangelizing the Single Tax.) He advised
                    my taking up medicine because, said Post, a man in public should have some actual contact with
                    professional work and a means of earning his living.
            And so, my chief handicap in that year of 1899 date wrong (1900) for school was
                    that I had not then thought things through. The next seven years gave me that opportunity. I was a
                    product of Old-world stock which had pioneered in the new. Now, on a tossing, semi-crippled
                    passenger-cattle boat, with a long-haired aesthete companion [Alexander Lattimore] having a book of
                    sonnets in his pocket, I was bound for the Old World. For me, it was a voyage of discovery, because
                    it opened up a new world.
            As soon as we regained our land legs and had aired out of our clothes the aroma of the sea-going
                    cattle corral which brought us across the Atlantic to London, Lattimore and I spent a fortnight or
                    so presenting the letters of introduction which had so impressed the Philadelphia judge.7 My pleasurable round of visits was momentarily disturbed by a letter from my
                    father, written after he had hastened back to LaPorte from Leo House.8 Come
                    home, he ordered; use what 
                  
                     5 The American educator and philosopher, John Dewey, was an important
                            contributor and leader in progressive education and the "new school
                            movement." Rumely's library contained Dewey's book, Moral Principles in Education (Cambridge, Mass, 1909), For Rumely's view
                            of the "new school movement" see Edward A. Rumely, The
                                Interlaken School (La Porte, 1915).
                  
                     6 Louis Freeland Post edited and published The
                            Public in Chicago from 1898 to 1913. Subtitled A National Journal of
                                Fundamental Democracy, and a Weekly Narrative of History in the Making, The Public
                            became recognized as one of the leading "single tax" newspapers in the
                            country. In 1913 Post resigned as editor to become assistant secretary of labor under
                            President Woodrow Wilson. See Frank Luther Mott (ed.), History of American
                                Magazines (5 vols., Cambridge, Mass., 1957), IV, 62, 179, 204.
                  
                     7 Rumely tells of his experiences in Philadelphia in MeGarr,
                            "The Formative Years," 37-39.
                  
                     8 According to Rumely, Leo House, "At first down on the
                            Battery [in New York City] and later on West 23rd Street … was a place where
                            Catholic emigrants fresh from Ellis Island, could stay a day or two to get their bearing
                            before proceeding to their new homes in the West. When flood tide of immigration later
                        
               
                     funds I had to buy a return passage immediately. I used
                    tuppence, ha'penny of those funds for postage and explanation why I would not return, and
                    shortly after, Father wrote his consent of the inevitable: I might remain in Europe for "a
                    limited time." As it turned out, my stay was limited to nearly seven years.
            Meanwhile, London. And England. The England of a half century ago has passed into the pageantry of
                    history. Brittania no longer rules the waves, and Britons who vowed that never never would they be
                    slaves will be a long time recovering from their recent fantastic ride on the socialist toboggan.
                    But in 1899
                    1900, we saw Britain at the peak of her Empire.
            Victoria's long reign had ended only five or six weeks before our arrival9." So far as heirs were concerned, the dynasty appeared well provided for. An aging
                    Prince of Wales had become Edward VII. George, Duke of York and with a ramrod-backed wife Mary, had
                    just become Prince of Wales. Their elder son, Albert Edward David Patric was in a sailor suit and
                    their second son, George Albert, was in swaddling clothes. The Boer War was on. The British were
                    bottled up in Ladysmith and Maffaekin, and foolhardy young Winston Churchill, a snub-nosed, lisping
                    newspaper correspondent, had gotten himself captured by the Boers.10 With
                    considerable surprise, not to say condescension, Briton's ruling circles, (a phrase now
                    popular in communist polemics) discovered that as a result of their war [Spanish American] with
                    Spain "those Americans" ruled the second largest colonial empire on earth. How the
                    British ruled the "lesser breeds without the law" had already been glamorized by
                    that weaver of spells, Rudyard Kipling,11 who had been discovered and presented
                    to 
                  subsided, Leo House became a home for single girls away from their families and a
                            stop-over for Catholics returning to the old country for a visit." A sister of
                            Rumely's mother, Sister Vincent of the Sisters of St. Agnes, was at one time head
                            of Leo House. McGarr, "The Formative Years," 16-17.
                  
                     9 Apparently there is a confusion of dates in the manuscript. Rumely
                            arrived in England in 1900. Queen Victoria ascended to the throne June 20, 1837, and ruled
                            until her death January 22, 1901. Victoria's life paralleled an age of significant
                            social and scientific advances and England's greatest influence in world affairs.
                            See G. M. Young, Victorian England: The Portrait of an Age (2nd ed., New
                            York, 1953).
                  
                     10 The Boer or South African, War came as a result of extended
                            commercial and political rivalry between the British and the Dutch South African colonists.
                            The Dutch Boers who had moved to the north of Cape Colony in the 1850s formed two states,
                            the Orange River Free State in 1852 and to the north Transvaal in 1854. These two
                            independent Boer republics surrounded by British territory declared war in October of 1899
                            against Great Britain. The Boers laid siege to Kimberley, Ladysmith, and Mafeking in the
                            fall months of 1899 but were soon driven back by British forces. However, the Boer War
                            continued until May, 1902. See Edward P. Cheyney, A Short History of
                            England (New York, 1960), 675-78.
                  
                     11 Rudyard Kipling, 1865-1936, was born in Bombay, India. His writing
                            is generally associated with the theme of the "white man's
                            burden" which implies an obligation to look after the less fortunate peoples of the
                            earth. Kipling has been called a defender of British imperialism. He won the Nobel Prize in
                            literature in 1907. His view of the British empire was best expressed in the poem,
                            "Take Up
               
                     American magazine readers like me by S. S. McClure, who was to
                    come into my life a dozen years later.12
            
            Lattimore and I intended to study at one of the colleges in Oxford, which had been the center of the
                    English High Church movement, but we found admission difficulties. One of our letters of
                    introduction from Louis F. Post was to Percy Alden who had a settlement on the East Side of London.
                    We told him of our situation and he advised us to enter Ruskin Hall at Oxford where we could live
                    cheaply. Board, room and tuition cost only $3.50 a week. Ruskin Hall was not a part of
                    the University. It was a college for working men founded by Walter Vrooman, an American who wished
                    the young men of the British labor and cooperative movement to have the opportunity of study and
                    contact at Oxford that they would not have under any other circumstances13 The
                    institution was run on a cooperative basis. "At Ruskin Hall," newcomers were told,
                    "we have no servants because we are all servants." Control was in the hands of the
                    student body and faculty, each one of whom had one vote in the House Meeting which met once a week.
                    Everyone shared in the work of running the place; cooking, sweeping, cleaning, janitor service were
                    performed by students and faculty in rotation. If there were a few students we might have 2 or 3
                    jobs at one time. If there were many students only one job. Everyone had to do all kinds of work
                    including, unfortunately, cooking. It was assumed that one who had been a breakfast cook, luncheon
                    cook and assistant dinner cook ultimately would become a competent dinner cook. This assumption had
                    to be abandoned in a few extreme exceptions. Lattimore, who had an epicure's taste 
                  the White Man's Burden." See Charles E. Carrington, Rudyard
                                Kipling: His Life and Work (London, 1955), 257-80.
                  
                     12 Samuel S. McClure, a native of Ireland, moved to Indiana in the
                            second half of the nineteenth century, attended high school in Valparaiso, Indiana, and
                            graduated with honor from Knox College in Galesburg, Illinois. In 1903 he founded McClure's Magazine which became well known for its realistic
                            reporting of American life. McClure's adopted son, Henry (Enrico), was enrolled at
                            Rumely's Interlaken School in 1911. When McClure came to visit Enrico at the school
                            he met Rumely. The two men had many interests in common and became lifetime friends. Rumely
                            employed McClure as editor-in-chief of the New York Evening Mail from
                            1915-1918. For additional information on the Rumely-McClure friendship, see Peter Lyon, Success Story: The Life and Times of S. S. McClure (Deland, Fla., 1967),
                            1-9, 341-42, 345-46, 354-59, 372-73, 382-83, 395, 400, 404, 410. The Samuel S. McClure
                            Papers are in the Lilly Library.
                  
                     13 Ruskin College was named after the famous English writer John
                            Ruskin. See John Tyree Fain, Ruskin and the Economists(Nashville, 1956);
                            George Bernard Shaw, Ruskin s Politics (Oxford, 1921). In the late
                            nineteenth century Ruskin's writing was particularly influential in American reform
                            circles. The American historian, Charles Austin Beard, was especially influenced by
                            Ruskin's Unto This Last: Four Essays on the First Principles of
                                    Politica.7 Economy (London, 1862), which put forth the
                            thesis that true Christianity meant working for social improvement of society. Beard, a
                            Hoosier, helped establish Ruskin College at Oxford and was lecturing before labor groups in
                            England when Rumely was a student at Ruskin. See Goldman. Rendezrous. 82-83, 115-16; Bernard
                            C. Borning. The Political and Social Thought of Chartes A Beard (Seattle,
                            1962).
               
                     for good food was a far better connoisseur than practitioner.
                    He was relieved of all further service at "The Kitchen Range" after bitter
                    complaint in one of the weekly house meetings that "Larrimore's porridge is like a
                    poultice."
            F. E. Smith, one of the most cultured, stimulating members of the faculty, was so frail in physique
                    that he was exempted from such heavy work as scrubbing floors and carrying coals and was permanently
                    assigned to kitchen duty. However, his cooking was far less satisfying than his lectures, so he
                    became master of the spoons and forks. Ruskin Hall residents of those days employed the questionable
                    domestic efficiency of washing dishes but once a day. Breakfast, luncheon and five o'clock
                    tea dishes were stacked in tub-like pans, 30 inches high and 50 inches long, until joined by the
                    dinner dishes. At night the dishwashing crew took over at a long table, with F. E. Smith at one end
                    wiping and polishing the silver.
            Ruskin Hall has now become Ruskin College with a handsome building of its own, though still
                    independent of the University. Despite the ascendency of the Labour Party, the college appears to
                    have retained much of its early policy of objective studying, not inculcating socialism and other
                    economic doctrines, for when Labour came to power in Britain in 1945, only five members of
                    Parliament were Ruskin College men.
            From the standpoint of pleasant, comfortable living, Oxford was the most delightful place I had ever
                    been. No spring that I have experienced quite equaled the beauty of that one of 1899
                    1900in the ancient university town. The medieval quiet of the place fascinated me,
                    And then I discovered the great Bodlyean Library, and spent three and four afternoons and evenings a
                    week among its ancient books14 It was enough sometimes when I was brought a book
                    two and three hundred years old merely to hold it in my hands, read the title page and feel myself
                    transported back to the past. The past spoke not only from the books, from the buildings, from the
                    old bells and customs of the town.
            Oxford broadened my outlook more than any other experience up to then. Here I met students from all
                    parts of the world—young men from Australia, from Africa, from China, from
                    India—people who had traveled, even a buyer of ivory whose trade had been interrupted by
                    tribal wars and had come from the heart of Africa to improve himself at Oxford until the native
                    tempest subsided and he could go back to his dealings in elephant tusks. For the first time I was in
                        
                  
                     14 The Bodleian Library is located at Oxford University, Oxford,
                            England. It is considered one of the finest libraries in the world, and many rare
                            collections of manuscripts, documents, and books are available for the scholar and student.
                            See Oxford University, Bodleian Library (Oxford, 1956).
               
                     contact with world viewpoints. One met problems of every kind
                    of government and of life. For the first time I found a conscious conception of leadership.
            Aside from attending lectures Oxford students gave very little time to study. At one tea given new
                    students by the niece of Alfred Lord Tennyson, Lattimore remarked to one of the university men
                    "I see you boating on the river and exercising in the fields but I seldom see you in the
                    library or studying in your rooms."
            "Mr. Lattimore," replied the Oxonian, "you don't understand what
                    we came here for. We do our reading and studying in the long vacations. We come to Oxford to meet
                    the men who are going to govern the British Empire with us."
            The chief contribution Ruskin Hall made to my education was to bring me in contact with the
                    cooperative movement and what it had done to reduce the cost of living for British labor. Many
                    students came from areas where cooperative organizations were strong. In Germany I became a member
                    of cooperatives through which I bought part of my supplies. I studied agricultural cooperatives on
                    the continent, and this knowledge not only helped me vastly when I took over the Rumely implement
                    business but I passed along to Theodore Roosevelt who incorporated it in his book "Foes in
                    Our Own Household."15
            
            One day I saw in a bookshop window a paper covered book with a German title, "Mein
                    Beichte." It arrested my attention and I bought it. It was Tolstoy's "My
                    Confession," an account of the author's spiritual development. Brought up in an
                    orthodox church, he had found the message of Jesus overlaid with dogma. I, too, had been brought up
                    in traditional doctrine and Tolstoy made an immediate impression upon me.
            Then I encountered the following passage:
            "Do these things for your children.
            "Let them do all they can for themselves; carry their own water, fill their own jugs, wash
                    up, arrange their own rooms, clean their boots and clothes, lay the table. Believe me, that
                    unimportant as these things may seem, they are a hundred times more important for your
                    children's happiness, than a knowledge of French or of History.
            "These things train your children to simplicity, to work, and to self-dependence.
            "If you can add work on the land, if it be but a kitchen garden, that will
                    be well.
            
               
                  15 Theodore Roosevelt, Foes In Our Own Household (New
                        York. 1917). In this book Roosevelt discusses industrial justice, socialism versus social
                        reform, the causes of World War I, and ways to correct social and economic problems in
                    America.
            
            
            "Believe me, that without that condition, there is no possibility of a moral education, a
                    Christian education, or a consciousness of the fact that men are not naturally divided into the
                    classes of masters and slaves, but that they are all brothers and equals."16
            
            Here, expressed in words, was what I had been groping for in my hope of founding a school which would
                    unite hand and brain. This passage crystalized both my thinking and determination of my future.
            I read the book and reread it. Then I began to read all of Tolstoy's writings. For about
                    eight weeks I read day and night. Here I found a philosophy of human brotherhood which gave point to
                    the gentle practice of my mother, who never spoke or thought ill of anyone. Here was dedication to
                    service of one's fellow man. Here was simple practice, free of traditional dogma, of the
                    Sermon on the Mount. Here was a program for simple living which I had so admired in the Franciscan
                    monks. Tolstoy's viewpoint clarified what had been vague and disjoined in my own experience
                    and outlook on life.
            Tolstoy's short stories so impressed me that for years I carried them in my pocket. I read
                    them on my skiing trips to peasant boys in the mountains. I read them Sunday evenings to the boys at
                    my Interlaken School. And I read them to my children as they grew up.
            I corresponded with Alymer Maude, Tolstoy's English translator,17 and
                    exchanged one or two letters with Tolstoy himself, who persuaded me to adopt vegetarianism. This I
                    did at Heidelberg. For five years I avoided meats, milk, butter and other animal products and lived
                    practically on a vegetarian diet.
            Meanwhile, having definitely determined to fit myself as a founder of a school, I grew dissatisfied
                    with my studies. Oxford offered little science and economics but was strongly classical, subjects
                    which inspired my revolt at Notre Dame. There was no application of physics and chemistry to
                    industry and I missed that. Consequently, I made up my mind to cross the Channel to the Continent
                    and Heidelberg, which offered more modern scientific training.
            Reluctantly, Lattimore agreed to go along. He was happy at Oxford-that is, until I took up Tolstoy
                    and vegetarianism. Another Ruskin Hall friend, John Cory,18 said he would
                    accompany us to 
                  
                     16 Leo Wiener (ed. and trans.), The Complete Works of
                                Count Leo Tolstoy (24 vols., London, 1904-1905), XIII. These are apparently
                            selected sentences and phrases from throughout My Confession.
                  
                  
                     17 Aylmer Maude has translated more of Leo Tolstoy's writings
                            than any other scholar. See, for example, The Kingdom of God and Peace
                            Essays (London, 1936);Nine Stories. 1855-1863 (London, 1934): Plays(London, 1936). See also Aylmer Maude, The Life of
                                Tolstoy(2 vols., London, 1930).
                  
                     18 Sir James Herbert Cory of Padstow, Cornwall, England, had four sons
                            and three daughters, the second son being John Cory, Rumely's school companion. The
                            Cory family of Cornwall still own one of England's largest shipping firms, John
                            Cory and Sons Ltd., which was begun by John Cory four generations ago. See Who
                                Was Who (4 vols., London, 1941), III, 291.
               
                     Heidelberg, provided that we first visit his home so that his
                    parents and grandmother could look us over and determine whether we were fit companions. Cory, who
                    rejoined me later, after I had founded Interlaken School, came from a family from which had come
                    three four generations of mayors of their seaside town in Cornwall. Grandmother
                    Cory greatly feared that her descendant might get in the habit of the "continental
                    Sunday," when, so she heard, the godless populace played games and scandalously cavorted.
                    It was a problem whether Lattimore, the aesthete, and I, the Tolstoyan, would pass muster. But she
                    was greatly interested in royalty and the intricate relationships of European crowned heads.
                    Lattimore's long hair and languid appearance opened him to question, but he knew the
                    complications of regal geneology almost as well as did DeBrett, its chronicler.19 He could enumerate in a twinkling the co-lateral kinfolk, say, of the Duchess of Fife and
                    the ruling family of Thurn und Saxis, and Grandmother Cory was entranced.
            We had passed muster; John Cory left England with us for the continent.
            
                    CHAPTER 7
                
            
                    HEIDELBERG
                
            Cory, Lattimore and I crossed the North Sea to the Hook of Holland and Rotterdam, where we went to
                    the theatre after engaging passage for the next day up the Rhine. Because of the Boer War, feeling
                    against the British ran high in the Dutch homeland. Coming out of the theatre, we three were
                    surrounded by young Rotterdamers who had heard us speak English and were obviously not overcome by
                    emotions of brotherly love. It looked like a repetition of the midnight fracas in the Philadelphia
                    graveyard, only more so.
            All my life, family and candid friends have been generous in kindly catalogues of my faults; but
                    never has their litany of dispraise cited me for loss of words. However, that night in Rotterdam I
                    was momentarily bereft of self-expression. More talk in English would merely pour oil on an already
                    lively bonfire. I knew no Dutch. With as much reiteration as seemed necessary, I announced in the
                    mother tongue of my grandparents "Wir sind Amerikaner!" [We are
                    Americans!]
            Dutch being a sort of linguistic bridge between English and German my statement was understood and
                    slaked the mob's thirst for 
                  
                     19 John Debrett edited for a time the British Imperial Calendar but is
                            most famous for his compilation of the Peerage of England. Scotland. and
                                Ireland (2 vols., Oxford, 1802). See Sir Leqlie Stephen and Sir Sidney Lee (eds.),
                                Dictionary of National Biography (22 vols., Oxford, 1921-1922), V,
                            714.
               
                     blood of an Englishman. Arm in arm, with Cory in the middle, we
                    marched out of the ambusquade, the English lion disguised as an American eagle. Three words in
                    German to a Dutch mob passed off a British subject as an American citizen, which ultimately Cory
                    became.
            We sailed up the Rhine to Mannheim, then went to Heidelberg and found a place to live. My reasons for
                    going to Germany were rather complex. I left England without writing my father my plans, because I
                    feared he would renew his attempts to bring me home. After I had refused to return to America,
                    Father had repeatedly urged me to quit Oxford and go to Innsbruck in Austria, where theological
                    study was under the Jesuits. But having abandoned every last lingering notion of joining the
                    priesthood, I figured that Father might look upon Heidelberg as a compromise between England and
                    Innsbruck.
            Louis Post having directed my thought to the study of medicine, I was now attracted to the idea
                    because a medical education would give me the broad background which I could use to good advantage
                    in founding a school. For medicine as it was then taught in Germany comprised all the sciences I
                    would need and implanted knowledge of the history and development of man which might be useful in
                    handling growing boys.
            Consequently, I enrolled at Heidelberg as a student in the philosophy department. But not without
                    some difficulty and a lot of riga-marolle. The university's requirements called for
                    subjects on which I had no available academic credits. Some of my Notre Dame studies did not
                    correspond with those at Heidelberg, and since I had left at mid-term, I had with me no papers
                    certifying as to studies I had taken. But the American consul20 with whom I had
                    become acquainted and to whom I had told my difficulty said, "Leave that to me."
                    These Germans are greatly impressed by imposing seals and big, official-looking documents. Just give
                    me a list of your high school and Notre Dame courses, and I'll prepare a certificate that
                    will dazzle them."
            Thereupon he had the consulate clerk engross a document certifying to the effect that Herr Edward
                    Aloysius Rumely had taken and passed acceptably the following studies at the College of St. Joseph
                    and at the University of Notre Dame. To it he attached the seal of the Consulate of the United
                    States at Heidelberg to which he pressed three blue ribbons in the wax. Finally he affixed the red
                    seal of the United States—about three inches of diameter in wax—around which
                    he put a protective wooden box. Then I lugged the whole thing up 
                  
                     20 The American consulate office was located in Mannheim and served
                            the surrounding cities such as Heidelberg. The officer was Heaton W. Harris from Alliance,
                            Stark County, Ohio. U. S., Senate Document 411, 57 Cong., 1 Sess.,
                        213-16.
               
                     the hill and presented it at the university, where I
                    immediately received enrollment papers.
            As a student in the philosophy department, I had a choice of economic and pre-medical scientific
                    subjects, and I so arranged my courses as to work in both fields at once. Heidelberg had a
                    superlative faculty. [Dr. Max H.] Jellenik, under whom I took a course, was Europe's
                    outstanding authority upon international law. I attended [Dr. Karl F.] Rathgen's lectures
                    on economics. And [Dr. George H.] Quincke in physics was on the frontier of scientific thought and
                    stimulated my mind in many directions. He had specialized in surface tension and cohesion which is
                    the basis of drop formation and all lubrication. And a generation before rain-making was practiced
                    with bombarding clouds with small particles of silveriodide, Quincke was making rain in the
                    laboratory.
            Heidelberg in those days had many of the outward attributes of the operetta "The Student
                        Prince21 Students were there for two purposes—academic and
                    social. A Heidelberg degree was a hallmark of academic prestige. A row of horizontal scars on one
                    cheek identified its wearer as one of the socially elect members of a student dueling corps or
                    fraternity. It was as much a badge of an upper-crust German university man and particularly a
                    Heidelberg one as the old school tie signaled out the Englishman who had attended the right school.
            There was as much ritual to a Heidelberg student duel as there is in Japanese tea-making and flower
                    arrangement. Contestants were bundled in pads, masks, helmets and goggles so that only a few square
                    inches of cheek were exposed to the slashes of dueling foils. I once saw a student brought into the
                    operating room with his face so slashed that his mouth wasn't holding together. He took the
                    two pieces in his fingers and said to the doctor about to sew them together, "Not too
                    close! I want a broad scar!"
            Once Lattimore was on a street car on which some corps students were riding. A woman got on, and the
                    student where she was standing did not get up and offer her his seat. Further down in the car,
                    Lattimore motioned the woman to take his place. The student made some remark, whereupon Lattimore
                    exclaimed "You boor!"
            "I demand your name," said the student, and Lattermore gave him his card.
            A few days later, the head of the corps and a few fraternity brothers wearing their uniform caps and
                    with ribboned sashes hanging from their shoulders walked in our rooms. They were formally 
                  
                     21 Sigmund Romberg composed The Student Prince,
                            which was first performed in New York City on December 2, 1924. See Theodore Baker (ed.),
                                Baker's Biographical Dictionary of Musicians(5th ed., New
                            York, 1958), 1364.
               
                     polite but icy-eyed. "You have given a public affront
                    to our corps," the leader said to Lattimore, "and we challenge you to a
                    duel."
            "Very well," said Lattimore, "name your second, and the man I choose to
                    second me will call and make the arrangements."
            Among Lattimore's student friends was a duelist so expert that he was constantly challenged
                    because he could cut an opponent's cheek just the way it was ordered. He agreed to act as
                    second, and was instructed to inform the challengers that Lattimore would fight with pistols.
                    "But he can't do that here!" was the protest. "In the South,
                    where my American principal comes from," replied the second, "the person
                    challenged chooses the weapons. My principal chooses pistols and proposes that the contestant start
                    at a distance of a hundred feet apart and approach each other until one or both fall."
            The corps went into executive session and emerged with the decision that the street car incident
                    wasn't as much of an insult as it appeared at first.
            Shortly after my arrival in Heidelberg, I had an experience which impressed me vividly with the
                    meaning of expert medical care. I had inherited a hernia of the rectal
                    rectus abdominalis [rectus ab-dominis] muscle sheath which occasionally gave
                    trouble. It was incorrectly diagnosed and my case became acute in Oxford, where a physician
                    pronounced it stomach trouble and prescribed a few useless pills.
            At Heidelberg, I went to [Dr. Arzt Vinzenz] Czerny, one of Germany's great surgeons who
                    examined me and said, "No, this is some mechanical defect in the upper gastric region. If
                    you'll let me open you up, I'll soon find out what the trouble is."
            So, I was wheeled into the University's medical amphitheatre where Dr. Czerny performed upon
                    me the first abdominal operation of this type under a local anesthetic. After administering cocaine,
                    he said to me, "Now I'm going in; try to hold out and let me work upon you without
                    a general anesthetic. But if the pain becomes unbearable, just tell me, and I'll put you
                    under ether."
            As he went in, Czerny described to his assistants and students in the amphitheatre stage by stage
                    what he was doing. I heard him say "this is the rectus muscle, this is the
                    sheath." Later he said "Why I now know the cause of the trouble. There's
                    a slit on the sheath of the lower side of the rectus muscle."
            Then he went on, "There's the liver and gall bladder."
            I raised myself up to have a look. "Lie down!" snapped Czerny. "This is
                    none of your business!"
            Czerny told me to come back two weeks after the operation, but I had a date to go mountain climbing
                    before an early fall of snow at Adelboden in Switzerland. When the surgeon sent for me to show his
                         students how quickly my wound had healed, my landlady said
                    I had left for Switzerland four days before. When I returned, I found Czerny's tongue as
                    sharp as his scalpel. "Of all foolish things!" he exploded. "Climbing
                    mountains ten days after a major operation! Here I had arranged a demonstration operation, a
                    milestone in operation history. You might easily have opened your wound and the blame would have
                    been on me for poor sutures!"
            Lattimore, Cory and I found two rooms in town and arranged an inexpensive establishment. Coffee with
                    a roll was furnished us each morning at a cost of $1.50
                    250 a month each. We got our noon-day meal outside for twelve or fourteen cents
                    apiece. Our evening meals we ate at home. My vegetarian food I prepared with a fireless cooker,
                    nuts, vegetables, olive oil and fruits. To this Lattimore added cheese and meat as he and Cory were
                    not vegetarians.
            Many of my fellow-students looked down their noses at me, for I was a vegetarian and held tenaciously
                    to my own ideas about things, including dress which consisted of a peasant-woven linen shirt with
                    soft collar and flowing tie and shoes of woven leather straps. This brought me into conflict with
                    German convention. One day when I entered the physics classroom, already filled with students, I
                    heard a scraping of feet—the German students' sign of disapproval. It did not
                    occur to me that this demonstration might be for me. But the next day it was repeated and much more
                    pointedly than the day before, for, as I took my accustomed seat, the two students who sat beside
                    me-who wore their corps badges-got up ostentatiously and moved to other seats. I then realized that
                    I was the object of their disapproval.
            When the class was over, a tall blond North German who had come to Heidelberg for its tradition and
                    corps life walked up to me, bowed stiffly and said: "Colleague, just a word. Are you
                    possibly an American?"
            "Why?" I asked.
            He replied "My classmates and I are having a discussion, are you a Jew or an
                    American?"
            I told him I was an American but I did not understand the purpose of the question. He said
                    "We have decided that we would not allow a Jew to dress as eccentricly as you, but if you
                    are an American, of course it's all right. Come over and sit with us."
            I thanked him for the invitation but kept my seat. I had no further trouble but I continued wearing
                    my soft shirt, my flowing tie and my woven shoes. I never entered into the corps life of the
                    Heidelberg students but occasionally was a guest at these organizations' drinking bouts
                    that lasted most of the night; and I was able to show  that a
                    vegetarian American could stand 21 mugs of beer without losing his feet.
            I read much for I had not only been suddenly thrown into contact with the life of a strange people
                    but with a new literature. My simple life, vegetarian diet and rugged health gave me tremendous
                    energy. I got up at five, began work at six, read, attended lectures or performed laboratory work
                    until five or six in the afternoon then dined with Lattimore and Cory and studied or attended
                    meetings in the evening. My recreation on Saturdays was long excursions afoot over the mountains to
                    visit points of interest or up and down the valley of the nearby Rhine to see industrial
                    developments.
            At Heidelberg there were a number of English and Americans. Some had been in Germany for years
                    without knowing a thing about the country and its people. They herded together, talked English, read
                    English and American papers and poked fun at the German verboten signs. I too chafed greatly under
                    many petty policye restrictions. One night when I was trying to get used to sleeping out of doors in
                    preparation for a vacation mountain trip, I was taken in tow by a policeman and threatened with the
                    charge of vagrancy unless I went home to my proper place to sleep.
            During the whole year I spent at Heidelberg I had a strong dislike of the German military system as I
                    saw it. I regarded it as a great evil which took one or two of the best years of a man's
                    life. Not until I became a medical student and familiar with health statistics did I begin to see
                    more clearly the advantages of military training from the standpoint of health and physique. My
                    antipathy also extended to kings and dukes. One day as I was crossing the bridge over the Neckar
                    [River] at Heidelberg a procession passed led by the Grand Duke of Baden, the uncle of Prince Max
                    [Prince Maximilian Alexander Friedrich Wilhelm of Baden], who was the German Chancellor in the last
                    few weeks of World War I. The homage that he received from the townfolk grated upon me so much that
                    I turned my back and looked up the river until the entire procession had passed. Then I continued on
                    my way.
            Each week Professor Rathgen held an economics seminar for a small group of interested students. He
                    was keenly interested in business organization and its tendencies to consolidation. He had a
                    remarkable library covering the formations of trusts in the United States and I became so convinced
                    of the inevitableness of business organization on a large scale that I began to correspond with my
                    father regarding the possibility of consolidating the threshing industry as the McCormick and
                    Deering Companies had been consolidated  by Morgan into the
                    International Harvester Company.22 Father treated this suggestion with the
                    indifference which is sometimes accorded youthful ideas. But ten years later when I had gained
                    control of the Rumely Company I endeavored to do
                    did just this.
            Occasionally I spent a day at Mannheim at which were located Lanz Threshing Machine factories which
                    were the strongest competitors of American manufacturers in the Russian market 2 to one
                        from US now.23 Upon information I picked up on some of these visits
                    were based policies that I put into practice when establishing the Rumely business in the Russian
                    market driving back both English and German competition.
            With other students, we used to go out one or two nights a week to drink beer and talk, and
                    frequently professors joined us and took part in our discussions. At one of these evenings, a
                    professor pointed out a man sitting at another table. "You two should meet," he
                    said. "You say your family makes steam engines for the farm. That fellow is working on an
                    internal combustion engine which uses crude oil."
            And that is how I met Rudolph Diesel whose engine has largely displaced steam in both rail and sea
                    transport. It was then only thirteen years after Benz had brought out in Germany a gasoline
                    propelled horseless carriage, only seven years after the Duryea brothers drove a gasoline buggy
                    through the streets of Springfield, Mass., only six years since the night a Detroit electrician
                    named Henry Ford tried out his little car in the rain.24
            
            
               
                  22 Cyrus McCormick, inventor of the McCormick reaper, established an
                        agricultural implement firm hearing his name in Chicago. His company prospered under his
                        leadership so that by the 1850s he had over three hundred employees and by the turn of the
                        century the McCormick Company was one of the largest manufacturers of farm equipment in the
                        Midwest. See William T. Hutchinson, Cyrus Hall McCormick (2 vols., New York,
                        1961); Cyrus McCormick, The Century of the Reaper (New York, 1931); Thomas C.
                        Cochran and William Miller, The Age of Enterprise (New York, 1942), 230. William Deering built
                        one of the most successful agricultural implement businesses in the Midwest, the Deering
                        Manufacturing Company of Chicago, and was the major competitor of the McCormick Company. In 1902
                        the two firms merged into the International Harvester Company of Chicago. See Allen Johnson and
                        Dumas Malone (eds.), Dictionary of American Biography (22 vols., New York, 1930), 111, 195-96.
                        (Hereafter cited as DAB.) John Pierpont Morgan was president of the J. P.
                        Morgan and Company and became the foremost financier and international tanker of the late
                        nineteenth and early twentieth centuries. DAB, IV, 175-80; Lewis Corey, The
                        House of Morgan (New York, 1930).
               
                  23 This phrase, presumably in Rumely's handwriting, was included
                        in the margin of the "Williamson" manuscript. It might mean that, at the time
                        Rumely wrote the phrase, the United States supplied twice as many threshing machines in the
                        Russian market as did the Lanz factories.
               
                  24 In 1892 Charles and Frank Duryea built the first gasoline automobile in
                        the United States at Chicopee, Massachusetts. See Groton Carruth (ed.), American
                            Facts and Dates (New York, 1962), 361. For information on Ford see Henry Ford and
                        Samuel Crowther, My Life and Work (New York, 1922); My Philosophy of Industry
                        (New York, 1929); and Allan Nevins and Frank Earnest Hill, Ford (3 vols., New York, 1954-1963).
                        Karl Benz, 1844-1929, was one of the first to construct a motor powered automobile which he
                        tested in 1885. He is credited with designing
            
            
            I found Diesel expansive, positive, and assertive. "It's the best thing
                    yet," he said of his engine. "Nothing can touch its efficiency, for it is capable
                    of converting 40 per cent of fuel into motive energy."
            Being young, I, too, was assertive. "That's not so much," I said.
                    "In one of our physiology courses at the University we have been testing muscular power and
                    find that a horse converts 44 per cent of its food energy into horse power."
            "Ah, so," replied Diesel. "But my engine has no standby losses."
                    I looked puzzled.
            "I mean," he went on, "that the fuel consumption of a horse while it is
                    working is only a fraction of its total food consumption. It burns fuel at work or at rest, awake or
                    asleep, Sundays and holidays. A horse may show a 44 per cent fuel conversion for a short period;
                    actually when you include the fuel consumed during idle periods to keep it alive and its body warm,
                    only about seven or eight per cent of the fuel energy from oats and hay appears in the work pull of
                    the horse. Now, my engine burns fuel only while it is working; therefore it has no standby losses
                    and its forty percent efficiency is net effciency. Also bear in mind that engine fuel some day may
                    be more plentiful and cheaper than grain and hay for horses."
            This raised the question in my mind whether animal power which was drawing plows all over the world
                    might not be replaced by engine power plowing. I recalled having heard when a small boy Mr. [James]
                    Oliver, the South Bend plow maker, tell my grandfather that he expected to make a plow so well
                    shaped that the draft pull would not be over 400 pounds for a 14-inch plow in average soil. I
                    calculated that the distance traveled to plow a 14-inch furrow would be 37,000 feet or about seven
                    miles to the acre. This mean, using Mr. Oliver's figure, that for plowing a square mile of
                    640 acres, a farmer had to have power capable of lifting 400 pounds some 4,500 miles. And to plow
                    the cultivated face of the earth each year required power consumption far vaster than all the the then existing factory, railroad and steamship engines in the world combined.
                    If Diesel was right, an engine might plow better than a horse.
            I put all this in a letter to my father and urged him to look into possible development of an
                    internal combustion plowing engine. "We thought you went to Europe to become a
                    priest," he wrote back. "Then we heard that you were studying medicine. You tell
                    us now to build engines. You had better keep on with your studies and let us carry on the business
                    here."
            
               the differential and the system of battery ignition and spark induction. His firm, Benz and
                        Company, at Mannheim, Germany, merged in 1926 with that of Gottlieb Daimler and became known as
                        the Mercedes-Benz Company. See Clarence L. Barnhart (ed.), The New Century
                            Cyclopedia of Names (3 vols., New York, 1954)' I, 463.
            
            
            But this rebuff did not shake the idea from my mind. When I returned home from Europe five years
                    later, it was still in my mind, and I did something about it.25
            
            
                    CHAPTER 8
                
            
                    I GO TO FREIBERG
                
            It was then the custom in Germany not to sit out one's university career in one place; a man
                    might study at two or three universities. After a year in Heidelberg, I enrolled at the University
                    in Freiberg in the fall of 1902; this time as a student of medicine and I studed there for seven
                    semesters, receiving my degree as doctor of medicine in the spring of 1906.
            I was attracted to Freiberg not only because its medicale faculty was one of the best in Europe but
                    also because I had heard so much about the place from my Grandmother [Ludwina Schweitzer] Zimmerman,
                    who was born in a village about seven miles away. Grandmother described Freiberg as the most
                    beautiful city she had ever seen. She was right. It lay at the foot of the Black Forest at the end
                    of two valleys. One was the beautiful Guntersthal. The other was dark, rugged Hellenthal (Hell
                    Valley) through which a mountain stream came tumbling down. Above it lay Tittisee, a sylvan lake,
                    and behind it was the Feldberg, the highest mountain of the Black Forest and now a world-famous ski
                    resort.
            I was one of a group of twelve Freiberg students which introduced skiing into South Germany. A few of
                    our fellow students were Swedes and Norwegians, a Swedish girl was in our medical class, and from
                    them we learned to ski on the Feldberg.
            Back in the Middle Ages, the people of Freiberg diverted mountain brooks along their city streets.
                    These icy, rushing waters which flowed over and between stone masonry, carried away the
                    town's refuse, and as a result Freiberg was one of the healthiest, cleanest towns in
                    Germany. Its municipally-backed university also dated back to the Middle Ages. Founded by monks with
                    the patronage of kings and princes, many of its buildings had been parts of monasteries. The vaults
                    of the old monks were still in use; according to a time-immemorial custom, farmers brought in their
                    grape juice in the fall to be stored in the university cellars until the wine matured and could be
                    hauled away.
            
               
                  25 Rumely was responsible for the development of the Rumely OilPull farm
                        tractor. He persuaded John Alstyne Secor, inventor of the kerosene combustion engine, to join
                        the M. Rumely Company's engineering department in 1908. Secor moved to La Porte and
                        developed a method of adopting the OilPull engine to the Rumely tractor. For the story of the
                        Secor engine see the La Porte Herald Argus. July 1, 1969.
            
            
            
               FREIBURG, BADEN, GERMANTY
               
               Courtesy Lilly Library. Indiana University, Bloomigton.
            
            
            The Cathedral was seven or eight centuries old with a lace-like spire of carve
                    stone block ingeniously set together with lead through which sunlight could
                    penetrate. Grandmother Zimmerman often repeated to me the story of Berthold Schwarz, the
                    cathedral's architect,26 who was told that when the scaffolding was
                    removed, his unique tower would fall. While the staging was being taken down, he slept under the
                    spire and remained there throughout the day because he didn't want to survive the disaster
                    should it occur.
            It was to this pleasant little city of some 50,000 population that Lattimore and I came.27 Cory, who had become interested in the Berlitz method of teaching languages
                    by a conversational method,28 had left us to go to Paris, where he taught
                    English, then to Essen where he taught English and French, then to Cairo, where he taught German and
                    French. Five years later I persuaded him to teach languages at my Interlaken School. Lattimore
                    remained with me at Freiberg for a year longer, then he, too, went to Paris. Before he left, we had
                    an interesting adventure.
            In Washington, on the way to Europe, Lattimore and I browsed about second hand bookshops. In one I
                    saw two volumes covered with pigskin, with illuminated initialed letters—as the writings
                    of one of the early Church Fathers, with the symbol of a Benedictine monastery in the front. They
                    were beautiful hand-carved types, perfectly preserved. The bookseller wanted $20 a
                    volume. I hesitated to spend $40 of the travel fund for the two volumes, but wrote to my
                    cousin Father Schweitzer at Sinsinawa Mound that if he wanted a couple of beautiful books to write
                    to this bookstore. He bought the books, but instead of keeping them himself, he sent them to me in
                    England.
            When we reached Freiberg, Lattimore, who enjoyed talks with clergy and visits to old monasteries,
                    journeyed to Beuron in the little province of Hollenzollern and a Benedictine monastery which had
                    great artistic tradition and monks who were mostly aristocrats.
            On returning he said "I was asked questions about industry in the United States that I could
                    not answer, and I told the Father Superior that I would bring you along because you have better
                    understanding than I of such matters. The Monastery is considering sending missionaries to the
                    United States and its heads wish to know 
                  
                     26 Berthold Schwarz, who lived in Freiburg about 1250 A.D., is
                            credited with designing the Freiburg Cathedral. Webster's Biographical
                                Dictionary (New York, 1961), 1330.
                  
                     27 The population of Freiburg in 1905 was approximately 76,285. Encyclopedia Britannica (22 vols., Cambridge, England, 1910), XI, 92-93.
                  
                     28 Maximilian Delphinus Berlitz, 1852-1921, was a French linguist who
                            developed imaginative methods of teaching foreign languages. He was the founder of the
                            Berlitz Schools of Languages which are world famous. See Robert Strumpen. Darrie and Charles
                            F. Berlitz, Berlitz Schools of Languages of America (New York, 1950).
               
                     about populations of cities and the kind of industry that
                    prevails in each, and something about the character of the population where it is of immigrant
                    origin."
            They received us. The Monastery is in one of the most beautiful spots of Europe in the Valley of the
                    upper Danube, where the river seeps in places in cavities, in the chalk and limestone soil, flows
                    underground for a distance and then emerges. On a cliff overlooking the Monastery is a small castle
                    built by a noblewoman whose son had joined the Order, so that all day long she might look down on
                    the roof that housed her son.
            The room given me was a corner room with a bed that had posts reaching up five or six feet and
                    curtains on all sides. Each of the posts was a carved woman not completely dressed—to
                    teach the occupant to withstand temptation, it was explained. The Father Superior invited us to the
                    library and also to a little room above which contained books on the Index Ex
                    Purgatoribus—books the Pope had forbidden lay Catholics to read.29
                    Father Superior said: "That's our Little Hell up there, where we keep the books
                    that are forbidden."
            Browsing about the library I saw a row of books with exactly the same binding front cover as the two
                    from Washington that I owned.
            "Yes, it is our disgrace," said the monk. "Through several centuries this
                    set of books made by hand by
                    of the workings of early Church fathers was handed down intact
                    without a page torn; but in our time two volumes were extracted, and we feel it is a great disgrace
                    to our trusteeship."
            When I reexamined the books I was quite certain that the two missing volumes were the ones I had.
                    When I got back to Freiberg, I made sure, then sent the books to Beuron. Seldom have I ever had such
                    enthusiastic and grateful acknowledgment, and an invitation to come back and spend a week at the
                    Monastery at any time that I might be free.
            At Freiberg I continued my simple mode of living. This was not only from choice but, about a year
                    after my arrival there, from necessity. Grandfather Rumely was dead. He left all of his estate to
                    his children, but the larger share went to my father [Joseph H.] and to William [N.] because these
                    two brothers had invested their lives in his business. Again my father bombarded me by letter with
                    demands to return home. Again and again I refused. As a sort of last desperate inducement, Father
                    cut off my allowance. He sent me a draft 
                  
                     29 The Index Librorum Expurgandorum or Index Expurgatorius, which is
                            no longer officially prepared, indicated those books which, with certain expurgations,
                            Catholics might read; the Index Librorum Prohibitorum lists those books which are
                        forbidden.
               
                     for $150 with which I was to pay my debts
                    close my account, then let him know what my passage home would cost.
            "Now, please," Father added, "don't write a six-page letter
                    saying why you can't do this. Come home! Because this is your last check."
            In obedience to my father's wishes, I did not write a six-page letter. Allowance or no
                    allowance, I wrote back in four pages, I was remaining in Freiberg to complete my medical education.
                    If no money came from home, I would earn it in Germany. This was one of the best things that ever
                    happened to me, for had I not been compelled to earn my own way, I would not have made the contacts
                    which ever afterward influenced my life and work.
            My allowance had amounted to about 200 marks-$50 a month with an occasional extra check.
                    Earning one's own way was counter to the rules of German universities so I had to keep
                    quiet about what I was doing. I worked as an orderly in a sanitarium and I wrote upon German life
                    and customs and current affairs for American papers and magazines.
            I paid $3 5 a month for my room, and my landlady served me coffee and
                    two rolls each morning for $1.25 more. As I ate my breakfast I brought a few handsful of
                    rice—the quantity depending whether company was expected that night—to boiling
                    over my alcohol stove; then put it in a fireless cooker to find it ready when I returned for my
                    evening meal. My interest in foodstuffs and my expert knowledge from my medical studies enabled me
                    to build interesting fruit and nut vegetarian combinations.
            I earned some of my living by writing articles for American magazines, particularly for The Pilgrim
                    which was edited by Willis Abbott, who later became editor for Hearst and then Christian Science
                        Monitor.30 One of my first articles was about the municipality of Freiberg
                    which had a very progressive administration. The city was run much like a large American corporation
                    and the control was in the hands of a Board of Directors, the Stadradt, with members elected for ten
                    years. It owned its own street car line and slaughter hauses. The Stadradt in turn employed the
                    mayor as a salaried executive, Dr. Winterer. Through [Gerhart] von [Schulze-] Gaevernitz I became
                    acquainted with Dr. Winterer the Mayor. I went to him and asked whether he could give me material so
                    that I could write up Freiberg. He said he would be delighted because he was having trouble with the
                    Stadradt which had refused to appropriate a couple 
                  
                     30 William Randolph Hearst was one of America's leading
                            journalists throughout the twentieth century. At the time of his death in 1951 his
                            publishing organization included eighteen newspapers in twelve cities and nine magazines.
                            See W. A. Swanberg, Citizen Hearst: A Biography of William Randolph Hearst
                            (New York, 1961), 625.
               
                     of [million] hundred marks for a municipal
                    theatre which he wished to build.31 If the council could see an article that
                    praised Freiberg as a tourists' seat his difficulties about the theatre might be solved. I
                    told the Mayor what the points of interest were that would appeal to Americans and he turned over to
                    me a whole trunkload of material with photographs. I had enough for a book.
            When the article was published in The Pilgrim, a copy was sent to me and I showed it to the Mayor who
                    said "Cable and buy 20 copies, because that's what I need for the City
                    Council." So he used this article as part of a campaign upon the Stadradt prophecying that
                    Freiberg would be overflowing with American tourists and that therefore all these councilmen would
                    be prosperous in their local businesses. As a result Dr. Winterer got the appropriation and built
                    the theatre.
            The Germany of my student days today seems like a never-never land. It was then a country of a rigid
                    class society divided into sections, one class over the other like a layer cake. Barriers between
                    classes were so high that there was very little contact between them. Each class mingled with its
                    own—professors with professors, manufacturers with manufacturers, officials with
                    officials, students with students, army officials with army officials. Those of one class or one
                    group seldom met on terms of intimate understanding members of other classes. As an American I could
                    not understand these limits. Also as an American I was not held within any one class and I could
                    meet all on a more or less equal basis. For a big proportion of the population of
                    Freiberg—police, city officials, tram-car men, storekeepers, priests, students, teachers,
                    working men, I, with my simple dress was known as "der Amerikaner." Whatever
                    idiosyncrasies I displayed were overlooked because, after all, Americans were expected to be
                    different.
            In a German University town, professors were the top of the social laddedr. Only
                    military officers of high rank took precedence over them at a dinner table. To be a professor was
                    such an honor and brought such distinction that many young men of wealth chose that career; and
                    instead of earning money they spent large amounts of their personal income for their research work.
                    Among my professors at Freiberg there were five who had properties of over a million
                    marks—pre-World War I marks, that is, when there were four marks to a dollar and the
                    dollar then could buy four
                    several times what it could today.
            
               
                  31 From 1870-1914 the exchange rate was 4.2 German marks to one United
                        States dollar. Probably then the word "million" is more nearly correct than
                        "hundred." Gustav Stolper, Karl Hauser, and Knut Borchardt, The
                            German Economy 1870 to the Present (New York, 1967), Appendix B, 329.
            
            
            Once when I arrived early at a professor's home for dinner, I heard the wife say to him
                    "Why must I have those dull military officers at my end of the table?" Her husband
                    replied: "Joanna, you know the military comes first, the professors second and business men
                    third. Your end of the table is the place of honor."
            So the hostess had generals one on either side of her, professors at the middle of the table, and
                    business men near the professor. She thought her husband was getting the best of the deal.
            One Christmas holiday I spent at Professor von Schulze-Gaevernitz' home. The Military
                    Governor of Alsace, [Baron Kolmar] Von der Gotz [Goltz], was expected to arrive the day before
                    Christmas. He didn't show up until New Year's day but his wife came on time. She
                    said "How could you disappoint us SO?" The General said very abruptly
                    "The timetables didn't check. The timetables didn't checm
               k."
            It seems that every year on New Year's day the General Staff went to the Kaiser and said
                    "We are prepared your Majesty," and they handed him a master timetable. No matter
                    what mobilization plan was decided upon the trains were all worked up for that plan. All that was
                    necessary was to open package No. 7 if Mobilization Plan #7 was decided upon and that might mean
                    they were running troops through Alsace and the trains all had to run in that direction and the few
                    civilian trains left had to be timetabled so that both army and civilian population could still
                    carry on. It happened that this year the timetables had not checked and the staff had had a terrible
                    time and a slow job working them out.
            On account of this delay the general had been held and could not get to the Christmas celebration
                    because "the time tables did not check."
            This was merely one of the many examples of the thoroughness of the preparations that the German
                    General Staff worked out. Here as early as ten or twelve years before 1914.
            As a part of our work in biology and physiology courses we were sent week-after-week to check
                    sanitary conditions in the Voges Mountains. Each Alsatian peasant had a manure pile close to the
                    house and a well not far away. We pumped a sample of the well-water and then took it back to the
                    laboratory to count the colon bacilli. After about four weeks of this we went to our instructor and
                    said "We're tired of spending our Saturdays on manure piles in the
                    Voges." He said "I can't help it. The Army has told me if one of their
                    plans calls for moving large masses of men in the Voges area they don't want any of their
                    men to pick up typhoid and we are supposed to make a study to see what has to be done as a
                    preventative.
            Another morning on my way to the dissecting room I saw a group of officers in their long mantles
                    looking down horses' mouths and  counting and recording
                    the condition of their teeth. What in the world, I thought, are those officers doing inspecting
                    horses. Then I found out that they had a contract with the horses' owners for the delivery
                    of so many animals to the barracks on the morning of mobilization, and they were recording the name
                    of the horse and the owner so that there would be no substitution should mobilization come.
            Even the great surgeon, Edwin Goldman,32 said to me one day: "Should war
                    break out while you are in Europe you could get more surgical experience in a few months than you
                    could in years. I will be in charge of a hospital that will be about 100 kilometers inside France
                    and I am seeking volunteers. As an American you can volunteer for a limited period of say six
                    months. I like you and I like your work and here would be a great opportunity." Fortunately
                    I never had to face this opportunity. But back in America I related these incidents to show German
                    thoroughness, and after The Mail case broke my words were distorted and cited against me in
                    "proof" that I was "a reservist in the German Army."33
            
            Just because I was a foreigner I saw much of Russian students at Freiberg. Almost all of them were
                    opposed to the Czar [Nicholas 111 but they represented all shades of political opinion. One of them,
                    [was] Rayissa Schavat, the daughter of a wealthy Russian tea merchant who supplied the Czar and
                    Grand Dukes. She was studying medicine and had the largest allowance of all the Russians. Sometimes
                    about 1500 marks and then her aunties would send her checks for 500 or 1000 more.
            Most of the Russian students were on a bare subsistence level, living on 60, 80, or 100 marks a
                    month. One of them was so poor that he couldn't afford a room but alternated from one
                    student's room to another. He would bring his own loaf of bread and medical books- he
                    borrowed some books which he always returned on the promised date. If you invited him to a meal he
                    wouldn't eat your food unless you ate an equivalent in calories of his food. So you might
                    have milk, cheddar cheese, chestnuts as I did, whereas he would bring along a package of rye bread
                    and sauerkraut. If I ate sauerkraut and rye bread and drank a little tea which he brought along then
                    he'd eat of 
                  
                     32 Edwin Ellen Goldmann studied medicine at the universities of
                            Breslau, Freiburg, and London. Goldmann became assistant professor of medicine at Freiburg
                            University in 1895 and chief physician at the Hospital of Evangelical Sisters in Freiburg in
                            1898. See Isidore Singer (ed.), Jewish Encyclopedia (18 vols., London,
                            1904), IV, 24.
                  
                     33 In the first installment of the Rumely autobiography it was stated
                            that "The New York Evening Mail case concerned Rumely's alleged use of
                            this paper as a propaganda outlet for the German government in 1914-1918. Rumely fought the
                            charge and after being sentenced to a year and a day in jail was finally pardoned by
                            President Calvin Coolidge." This statement is accurate; however, it should be noted
                            that Rumely was never actually imprisoned. See McGarr, "The Formative
                            Years," 39n.
               
                     my food in proportion which I and my guests ate of his. That
                    was his principle—that he wouldn't be dependent so as to increase the costs of
                    any one else.
            Rayissa lived on probably a couple
                    3 to 500 of hundred marks a month and the rest she divided among
                    her fellow Russian radical students. Once every six weeks or so she called a meeting of all
                    different groups in her parlor. She had a silver and gold samovar-the best tea I have ever tasted.
                    By eight or nine o'clock both samovars would be boiling and the room would be full of
                    students. They would start out and say "How much money have you left?"
            And Rayissa would say "Well, I had a lot of money this month, about 3200 marks as my aunties
                    sent me a thousand marks but I've only got one thousand left."
            They'd say "What, you spent 2000 marks in one month? What a bourgeois you are,
                    living on the blood of the people."
            She'd say "Well, I was embarrassed and I bought a few clothes and I can't
                    help it. Father would think it terrible for me to have a extra thousand marks,
                    more terrible if I gave you 2000."
            Then one fellow would get up and say "One of our social revolutionary comrades is exiled in
                    Siberia and we want to buy a warm jacket for him so he won't suffer and stay in bed all day
                    to keep warm. We need 40 marks for a sheepskin jacket."
            So Rayissa Schavat made a note of that amount. Another fellow would jump and say "Social
                    revolutionaries are a handicap because they want to shoot the Czar and bureaucrats. But if you shoot
                    one two will take the place of the one that is shot, and worst of all the peasants and people recoil
                    from that kind of shooting. You can't shoot them one by one, you've got to prepare
                    the ground so you can overthrow the system. So you shouldn't give that fellow a sheepskin
                    coat because he and his social revolutionary friends are fighting the wrong way."
            "Well," Rayissa would say, "I've given it to him now anyway so
                    that stands."
            One after another would argue vigorously for his or her point. And after each one got his award,
                    there would be 30 or 40 marks left, there'd be violent discussion over who would get this
                    residue. And so they'd argue until about three and four in the morning and then
                    I'd think of my medical school classes the next day and I'd pull out. In the
                    dissecting room the next morning I'd say "Well what happened in the end?"
                    They'd say "Well, we didn't finish the discussion until breakfast, we all
                    had breakfast together and then she divided the money among the fellows evenly, even though before
                    that she'd make them convince her of the validity of their program." And so she
                    had a tremendously good time doing it. Because I stood aside and wasn't a  Russian, only an observer, she'd talk to me as she
                    wouldn't to them.
            I heard later that one of the students proposed buying a lot of Bible paper which, being light and
                    opaque. could provide many more printed copies than the same weight of ordinary paper. A Russian
                    student had died in Zurich, where Lenin was living in exile, and permission had been obtained to
                    ship his body back to the land of the Czars in a lead coffin. It was then decided to bury the body
                    in Zurich and fill the lead casket with Bible paper tracts written by Lenin. The young conspirators
                    were quite certain that the border police would not open the casket to inspect the inside and it
                    cost about 140 marks to buy the Bible paper for this shipment. I had no part in this smuggling, but
                    a dozen years later when I was publisher of the New York Evening Mail I sent a young reporter to
                    accompany a man named David Bronstein who was leaving the Bronx for Russia. Bronstein was known as
                    Leon Trotsky, and the young reporter was named John Reed.34
            
            It was probably letters which described some of my Russian fellow students which eventually
                    determined my father to try to force me to return home. What he did not understand, and what I was
                    only just beginning to realize was that I was having experience far beyond even the exceptional
                    university student in America; but that in Germany I was privileged to have contacts and experiences
                    beyond even the reach of most German university students. For it was during my three and a half
                    years at Freiberg and before my return to America that were formed my life-long associations with
                    the families of Gerhardt von Schulze-Gaevernitz and Edward
                    Julius Guetermann35 and Edwin Goldman [who
                    was] pioneering on the frontier of medical science.
            
                    CHAPTER 9
                
            It was the custom of German universities in those days to give each student at the beginning of an
                    academic term a little black book in which he set down the name of the professor under whom he
                    wished to study and the title of his lecture course. Then the student took the 
                  
                     34 For information on Vladimir Il'ich Lenin and Leon Trotsky
                            see Louis Fischer, The Life of Lenin (New York, 1964); William Henry
                            Chamberlin, The Russian Revolution, 1917-1921 (2 vols., New York, 1963);
                            Isaac Deutscher, Stalin: A Political Biography (New York, 1968). John Silas Reed, 1887-1920,
                            was an American journalist who made his reputation covering the Mexican Revolution, World
                            War I, and the Bolshevik Revolution. See John Reed, Insurgent Mezico (New York, 1914); The War In Eastern Europe (New York, 1916); and his most famous book, Ten
                            Days That Shook the World (London, 1919).
                  
                     35 Julius G. Gütermann and his family were successful
                            industrialists who owned Gutermann Schapp Seide Company, one of the largest international
                            silk manufacturing and spinning concerns in the world. Gutermann and the young medical
                            student became friends, and Rumely was frequently invited to the Gutermann family estate,
                            Villa Orehta.
               
                    
                    
                  PRQFESSOR GERHART VON SCHULZE-GAEVERNITZ (ABOVE)
               
                    
                  EDWARD A. RUMEZY, 1905-1906 (RIGHT) Courtesy Lilly
                            Library, Indiana University, Bloomington.
               
                     book to the office of the bursar who would then inform him the
                    total cost of these lectures—the cost depending on the course, and then the student paid
                    the 100 to 150 marks for the term. The university authorities paid not the slightest attention
                    whether a student attended or stayed away from these lectures. It was up to him to prepare himself,
                    by himself, but if at the end of the term he showed no familiarity with the lectures he was flunked
                    up.
            Thus it happened that I set down in my little black book the name of Professor Gerhard von
                    Schulse-Gaevernitz, and his course "Political Science." This remarkable man was
                    one of the most popular of all lecturers in Freiberg and some three to four hundred students
                    attended his courses. I sat thrilled by his eloquence, by his broad learning, by his understanding
                    scholarship, but it was not until late winter that I had any personal contact with him.
            This came about after one evening when Professor Gaevernitz gave a special lecture, at which all
                    students might attend. His topic was "New German Economic Policies." Tall, blonde,
                    he was full of enthusiasm and by his spiritual appeal fired others by the contagion of his own zeal.
                    In this lecture he outlined with clarity that Germany must change its whole outlook. It must abandon
                    the policy of protection and it must overthrow the political power of the Prussian Junkers. Germany,
                    he said, was ripe for the industrial revolution which had taken place in England in the early part
                    of the century, when the corn (?) laws were repealed.36 The Junkers, there were
                    about 40,000 of them were the owners of the large landed estates in Prussia, upon which peasants
                    worked on shares or as day laborers. As new wheat-lands of Canada and the United States began
                    shipping their product, the Junkers found that the price they could get for grain was too low to
                    yield a large net income from their estates, and because of their political power and unequal, large
                    voting representation, they imposed upon Germany a tariff upon foodstuffs which raised the price
                    level of their own products.
            Gaevernitz pointed out that this meant a higher cost of living for the masses in the city and that
                    thereby the cost of production in Germany was being increased and Germany was being held back in its
                    effort to build up trade in its export markets. Gaevernitz' theory was that Germany should
                    trade favorably with all nations, must buy foodstuffs, 
                  
                     36 In 1846 Queen Victoria consented to the repeal of the Corn Laws.
                            "Corn" is the English term for wheat or grain. The Corn Law of 1815 had
                            placed a high protective tariff on wheat which benefited only the landed interests. The
                            price of bread was extremely high as a result of the Corn Laws and this hurt the economic
                            position of the poorer people in England. After 1846 England developed her commercial empire
                            by a liberalization of trade barriers and pursued a policy which approximated free world
                            trade. See Sydney W. Jackman (ed.), The English Reform Tradition.
                            1790-1910 (Englewood Cliffs, 1965), 102; Norman Gash, Mr. Secretary
                            Peel (Cambridge, Mass., 1961), 8, 193, 247, 301. 365, 424, 427-28, 446-47.
               
                     raw materials, and whatever else she needed in the best market
                    and encourage a policy of friendly intercourse to further her commercial expansion and overseas
                    trade. Just as (?) [Sir Robert Peel]37 and his associates had won a victory over
                    landed interests in Great Britain, so, too must Germany liberalize and give representation and
                    political power to people in industrial centers.
            This lecture interested me so much that I decided it would be good material to write up for
                    publication in an American paper. At that time the United States was not yet an exporting nation and
                    many of the principles Gaevernitz had laid down for building foreign trade were true not only for
                    Germany but for any other country as well. Wishing to secure some additional data for my article I
                    asked for an appointment at Professor Gaevernitz's home, and thus began an association and
                    friendship that lasted the remainder of his life, and I shall treasure as long as I live. Professor
                    Gaevernitz gave me readily the information for which I asked, questioned me regarding my studies and
                    then took note of my home address.
            About two weeks later I received an invitation to dine at the Gaevernitz home. I accepted and went
                    dressed in my soft collar, cap, gray suit, flowing tie, and arrived promptly at seven, the hour set.
                    This was in my ignorance of the custom of German students to arrive at dinner engagements fifteen
                    minutes late. Neither Professor Gaevernitz nor his wife were downstairs, but Garo Gaevernitz, his
                    flaxen-haired son, then about two or three years old, said "du bist wohl(?) der Amerikaner
                    [you are no doubt the American], roll on the floor with me, play."
            I did. He sat on my chest and told me that I couldn't get up. The doorbell rang, but the
                    youngster and I kept on playing. The doorbell rang again. I pretended the by had me helpless on the
                    floor. Again the doorbell rang, and I looked up. Little Garo and I were encircled by a group of
                    German students in black frock coats and all looking at us with amazement. On the hall table was an
                    array of canes and black silk hats. Out of the window I saw two students coming up the walk. Soon
                    the drawing room was filled with a dozen or more stony-faced young men, stiff as pokers, formal as
                    butlers, and all dressed exactly alike.
            It was well that none of us could look into the future. Over the Alps, at Steyr in Lower Austria, a
                    pindling fourteen-year-old boy named Adolph Schicklegruber (Hitler) was an indifferent student at
                        
                  
                     37 Sir Robert Peel, 1788-1850, was the son of a successful cotton mill
                            owner. He served the English government as home secretary, 1822-1827, and served two terms
                            as prime minister, the most important being 1841-1846. He supported the repeal of the Corn
                            Laws and split his conservative Tory party, which did not regain power until 1874. See
                            Earnest John Knapton and Thomas Kingston Derry. Europe, 1815-1914, (New
                            York, 1965), 192-93, 199-200.
               
                    
                    Staatsrealschule and showing no promise in any subject aside from free-hand
                    drawing. Forty-two years later, Garo von Gaevernitz, the flaxen-haired youngster sitting on my
                    chest, would be an American officer, negotiating the surrender of Hitler's army in
                        Italy.38
            
            That evening in the Gaevernitz home at Freiberg was my first introduction to the formality of dining
                    with other students at a professor's home. Mrs. Gaevernitz crossed the room to chat with me
                    and soon put me at my ease. She spoke English fluently. She was a daughter of Baron [Rudolph
                    Freiherr] von Hirsch, in Mannheim, and a cousin of the late Otto Kahn, the head of Kuhn, Loeb
                    & Co. in New York.39 She was a woman of great culture and knew the
                    artists and writers and political leaders of all Germany, through many-sided contacts at her
                    mother's home in Mannheim which had been a mecca for men of ability in every walk of life.
            A few days later, I was returning late one afternoon from my work in the dissecting laboratory and
                    turned up the side street in which I lived. I heard a voice calling "Rumely!
                    Rumely!" and as I looked up I saw a bearded man leaning out of the mansard window of my
                    room. It was Professor Gaevernitz. I had a mansard room on the top floor walk-up, down beloe
               w people of affluence lived and on top the
                    workman's family. As I opened the front door, my landlady met me and said, "This
                    man said he was a professor, and he looked so noble that I couldn't let him stand in the
                    hall, so I opened your room and he's waiting for you." I was somewhat embarrassed
                    because I had a small top-floor room rented from the family of a workman and I had left the place in
                    disorder that morning. But Professor Gaevernitz seemed not to have noticed. He greeted me with the
                    remark "This is the most extraordinary combination I have ever seen. On one side of the
                    room you have a photograph of Leo Tolstoy, whom I know. On the other side you have that Standard Oil
                    millionaire Henry Rogers.40 How do you reconcile two such characters, 
                  
                     38 Dr. Gero von Schulze-Gaevernitz later made two significant
                            contributions to his adopted country, the United States. He helped negotiate the surrender
                            of almost one million German troops in Italy and Austria on April 29, 1945, and for this was
                            awarded the United States Medal of Freedom. After the war he worked closely with Allen W.
                            Dulles, who headed the Office of Strategic Services in West Germany. See New York Times, May 6, 1970. For additional information on his career see Allen
                            Welsh Dulles, The German Underground (New York, 1947); and Gero von
                            Schulze-Gaevernitz (ed.), Revolt Against Hitler: The Personal Account of Fabian
                                von Schlabrendorff (London, 1948).
                  
                     39 Otto Hermann Kahn, 1867-1934, was born in Mannheim, Germany, and
                            later became a United States citizen. In 1897 he joined the international banking house,
                            Kuhn, Loeb & Company. See Who Was Who (4 vols., Chicago, 1962), I,
                            655. The Kuhn, Loeb & Company became one of America's foremost banking
                            concerns ranking with such financial banking leaders as J. P. Morgan, Andrew Mellon, and
                            John D. and William Rockefeller. See Arthur D. Howden Smith, Men Who Run
                                America (New York, 1936), 99, 111, 115, 134, 220, 288.
                  
                     40 Henry Huttleston Rogers, 1840-1909, was a genius for financial and
                            business organization. He was successful in numerous fields of investment including oil,
                        
               
                     even if you hang them on the opposite side of the
                    room?" I told him "It is because Henry Rogers says the trouble with our American
                    boys is that they don't want to work, and I want to start some day a school which will show
                    them how to work as well as to learn.
            "My wife is going to Italy for two weeks," Professor Gaevernitz told me.
                    "I recall with pleasure our conversation at my home the other evening and I'd like
                    you to come and live with us while she's away."
            So I accepted and spent a fortnight at the Gaevernitz home. I dined with the professor in the evening
                    and talked with him at breakfast. At other times I was quite free. In addition to his lectures the
                    Professor was writing a book and he was very much overworked and couldn't sleep. I realized
                    the trouble was that he hadn't muscular exercise enough. This was a medical theory that one
                    of my intimate friends and physiology teacher was working on, namely, the need for muscular work to
                    balance mental activity. This is really in a small edition what Bill Brown's Health Farm
                    and Muldoon's carried out under more advantageous conditions, to meet the needs of a
                    particular individual. So I talked the Professor into taking an afternoon walk with me. A few days
                    later I purposely took the Professor up and over the Ginterstahl. We ended in a valley far from home
                    and we had to walk all the way up and down the mountain again. Instead of arriving in time for
                    dinner at seven we got back at eleven o'clock. The next morning Professor Gaevernitz said
                    "You know, for the first time in many weeks I slept through the whole night. I went to bed
                    and slept until 8:30 and never waked up once."
            The next day we took another long walk and again Professor Gaevernitz told me how well he had slept
                    and how fit he felt for work the morning after. When my fortnight's visit ended he told me
                    that he was a changed man, he slept soundly and said that I had added two hours to his working day.
            That was the beginning of the most stimulating friendship of my life. Professor Gaevernitz was a
                    widely known economist. He knew England well, and had relatives and friends there. Two of his
                    wife's sisters were married to Englishman, one to Sir Arthur Jones, then one of
                    London's leading barristers. He had lived in Russia for a year or two and was an intimate
                    friend of Tolstoy. He was descended from a long line of university professors with one or two
                    wealthy manufacturers as ancestors. In one spot of his library was a whole bookcase, shelf after
                    shelf filled with books members of his family had written. A great-great-grandfather was a friend of
                    the great philosopher Immanuel Kant. Taking his young son Garo to the book-case 
                  gas, copper, steel, banking, and railroads. He was acting head of the Standard Oil Company
                            in the 1890s. DAB, VIII, 95-96.
               
                he often said "Garo, you see up here the top
                    shelf your great-great-grandfather built that; the next shelf down, your great-grandfather; here
                    this shelf your grandfather is filling, see this shelf your father is building, and this shelf way
                    down here is vacant, it must be filled with books that you write."
            The vacant shelves were never filled, for young Garo on his father's advice after he
                    finished at the university came to the United States in the early 1920's because his father
                    feared the demoralizing effect of Germany's inflation on young men and advised his son to
                    become acquainted with American democracy. Thus it was that Garo became an American citizen. During
                    the Nazi regime Professor Gaevernitz retired. Some of the books on that shelf that he had written
                    were under Hitler's ban and he had to bury them for he was one of the international-minded
                    German liberals whom Hitler once sneeringly tagged "international gypsies."
            Moreover Professor Gaevernitz was a Quaker because he believed that members of the Society of Friends
                    were "people for whom democracy had grown to be a religious experience."41 In his eloquent peroration to the (?) Lecture'he delivered in London
                    in 1930 he said "life is what we make it, the age becomes what it believes, it becomes
                    chaos when it believes in the self-seeking and rottenness of men and thus lets loose the war of all
                    against all. It becomes cosmos if it believes in the powers of freedom and fellowship which call men
                    to the service of the whole. This seems to be Utopian when seen in the large but it is very
                    practical in the narrow circle of daily life of friends, family and colleagues."
            Professor Gaevernitz had fought his way through in the midst of conflict between traditional religion
                    and our modern scientific thinking, to an understanding of eternal verities which he was able to
                    transmit with a clarity of thought. At that time he was interested in the spiritual foundations of
                    English greatness and how these religious movements had culminated in settlements in new America and
                    there had coalesced, in the greatest religious and spiritual achievement of man, in the American
                    government. Professor Gaevernitz asked me many questions about America, questions which in my
                    answering I found help to understand my own grandfather and his urge at the time of the Carl Schurz
                    revolution to come to America and start anew. "The background of German history is a
                    defeated revolution," he said "that of Anglo-American history a victorious
                    one." This difference cuts very deep and its after affects have lasted right down to the
                    present." When he found that preoccupied with economic studies and medicine that I did not
                    know German philosophy he set aside 
                  
                     41 Gerhart von Schulze-Gaevernitz, Democracy and
                                Religion: A Study in Quakerism (London, 1930).
               
                     twelve one hour periods each Thursday morning between 11 and 12
                    with me as the sole student and he gave me a presentation as carefully worked out as he would to his
                    400 students. He gave me with burning zeal his grasp of the heritage of Immanuel Kant and the great
                    German philosophic teachers. Afterwards one or two of his friends heard of these lectures and he
                    invited them to join with me and we sat, two or three, listening to a lecture that might have been
                    given to hundreds. Truly he was a man who knew the "powers of freedom and fellowship which
                    called men to service of the whole."
            The following summer Professor Gaevernitz invited me to spend my vacation at his ancestral estate at
                    Crainsdorf bei Neurode in Silesia close to what was then the border of Bohemia. He owned the entire
                    side of a valley and as he was the only large land-owner the exclusive hunting privileges rested
                    with him. He had two splendid setter dogs and every afternoon I went hunting quail and grouse and
                    occasionally larger game in the forests that belong to the estate. I had a glorious time. Gaevernitz
                    had one dog, Juno, that loved to hunt and every afternoon at three the dog would come over, tug at
                    my clothes and lead me up to the hunting post. So I'd put on my hunting clothes and take
                    the dog. Juno had a pup about two-thirds grown and he went along too. I never elsewhere saw a mother
                    dog train her offspring as Juno did. The pup would go out and flush the pheasant instead of waiting
                    for me to come up. Then Juno grabbed the dog by the neck, shook it and put it back and after a few
                    tries of that kind the pup stayed behind until mother had pointed and I'd moved up.
            I had never lived under conditions such as prevailed at Crainsdorf. I got to know the peasant life
                    and once had an embarrassing experience. We were short of skeletons at the medical school in
                    Freiberg and here was a chapel where there must have been 100 skulls and some bones that had been
                    dug up where the peasants had used the cemetery over and over again, generation after generation.
                    One late afternoon I inspected the skulls and found several that looked excellent which I put under
                    my coat and walked out. I didn't know that one of the peasants had seen me come out of the
                    chapel but they were following me. I didn't want to embarras my host by running home to him
                    so I decided to run up the mountain and into the woods and come back to the Gaevernitz home without
                    the peasants knowing where I went. So I got away from my pursuers, I took the skulls back to
                    Freiberg and I brought even one eventually to LaPorte where we used it in my Interlaken School.
                    (NOTE: Perhaps EAR'S taking Prof. Gaevernitz physical training in hand should be inserted
                    here because I notice in the black book that it was the end of the summer vacation that he had added
                    two hours to his working day.)
            Back in Freiberg once more I was a frequent visitor at the Gaevernitz  home which was a mecca for professors, writers, artists, and public
                    officials. There was also a fairly large English colony in Freiberg one of the most eminent of which
                    was Edwin (Edmond?) Goldmann, a brother of Sidney Goldmann, who was Cecil Rhodes associate in South
                        Africa.42 Dr. Goldmann was a surgeon of independent means, a typical
                    Englishman in his make-up, yet had migrated from England to Germany so as to be able to work out in
                    a scientific atmosphere of a German university his researches for the cause of cancer. He was a
                    close friend of Professor [Paul] Ehrlich of Frankfurt and made frequent trips to the Ehrlich
                    laboratories. His wife was a granddaughter of Sir Robert Peel. Dr. Goldmann took an interest in me
                    and gave me opportunities to do extra work in his surgical laboratory. He had many difficult cases
                    of industrial accidents referred to him in which long periods of development were required to
                    recover the use of hands, legs. Although I was an American, Germany university regulations required
                    that I put in a certain portion of my medical time in learning how to work under the German
                    insurance laws. My health, youth and impulsive manner—and possibly strangeness, due to
                    the fact that I was an American—made it possible for me to interest patients and get
                    response rather easily. Professor Goldmann assigned some cases that had been difficult to handle and
                    was pleased with the progress they made. He then took me as third assistant in the operating room
                    although I was still a year and a half from completion of my medical courses. Through Professors
                    Gaevernits and Goldmann I became acquainted with the families of other professors (Note—I
                    have not text of the first Freiberg chapter hence I am not sure whether or not there are passages in
                    that relating to EAR'S friendship with Mayor Winterer and how a magazine article of his
                    helped the Mayor build a municipal theatre. If it is not in that chapter I'll insert in
                    this.)
            At Heidelberg I had become acquainted with Ludwig Frank and other Socialist leaders in South Germany.
                    Frank, tall, bushyhair, eloquent, brilliant and well read, was one of the movements greatest
                    orators. He told me that he never would have gotten any education except for a woman in Mannheim who
                    tongue-lashed him and told him he was wasting the opportunities that he should live up to. His
                    father was a cabinet-maker and this woman had a great many antique pieces which he restored. Young
                    Ludwig Frank used to haul 
                  
                     42 Cecil Rhodes, 1853-1902, contributed to the British development and
                            colonial empire of South Africa. He went to South Africa in 1870, made a fortune in gold and
                            diamond mining, and became chairman of the British South African Company in 1889. He was
                            elected prime minister in 1890 but after his complicity with Dr. Jameson's Raid
                            into Boer territory was content to pursue the development of Rhodesia and build up the
                            Rhodes scholarship fund which he had created for Britons, Germans, and Americans. See
                            Knapton and Derry, Europe, 373.
               
                     them back and forth. "What are you going to
                    do?' said the woman. "I'm going to become a cabinet-maker like my
                    father." And she said "What? A young man with such ability as you undoubtedly
                    possess with no aspirations. You ought to be ashamed of yourself." The first time she
                    talked to him that way he went home and cried, but she gave him a book to read and told him to come
                    back after he had read it, then she gave him another and kept spurring him on until he decided he
                    would study at the university. Frank told me "My career is due to the stimulus of Frau
                    Hirsch, the mother of Professor Gaevernitz's wife."
            I'd also become acquainted with many workmen Socialists, rather intimately, notably William
                    Engler, the Socialist leader of the South German districts. Professor Gaevernitz had heard of him
                    and wished to meet him. Also, I wished him to meet Ludwig Frank. But in those days German society
                    was like a layer cake and the layers did not mix. It would cause much discussion in the ranks of
                    Socialist workmen for a workman to call upon a bourgeois professor and an equal amount of discussion
                    among professors if a professor had called at the home of a Socialist workman. So it was decided
                    that I should invite both Frank and Engler to one of my vegetarian evening meals at which they would
                    meet Professor Gaevernitz. This led to many similar meetings. A few times Edwin Goldmann attended.
                    Almost every one of my friends had some strong interest and the dinner was generally followed by
                    discussions that lasted late into the night. The unconventional atmosphere made everyone feel at
                    ease and at times it served well Professors like Gaevernitz who could meet labor men at my home.
                    Some years later when the Socialists realized that they would lose the district to the Conservatives
                    if they didn't combine with the Liberals, Engler brought it about that the Socialists would
                    support Professor von Schulze Gaevernitz as a candidate for the Reichstag to which he was duly
                    elected.
            Thus it was that I became a catylytic agent in sending Professor Gaevernitz into public life where he
                    struggled to have Germany take her place with the West by peaceful collaboration with the democratic
                    world. This was on the eve of World War I and late in 1916 or early 1917 when I was publishing the
                    New York Evening Mail, I got through to Professor Gaevernitz by way of Switzerland a message to the
                    effect that if Germany declared unrestricted submarine warfare it would bring America into the war.
                    I learned later the result of that message. Professor Gaevernitz went into the Reichstag and opened
                    opposition to that proposed declaration. He went to Chancellor [Theobald] von Be(?) [Bethmann]
                    Hollweg and said to him "how in the world can you do this? You know better. And Hollweg
                    said "I must be loyal to my lord and master, the Kaiser who wants it otherwise."
                         Professor von Gaevernitz commented "that was not
                    the reply of a statesman but of a feudal lackey."43
            
            During my last year in medical school, Professor Gaevernitz was working on a new book, "New
                    British Imperialism and Free Trade." How was it, he asked, that the British ventured forth
                    to develop colonies all over the world while Germans were asleep at home? What stimulated this
                    spirit of enterprise? Was it Protestantism? Or was it a combination of religious zeal and the profit
                    motive? For answers to these questions, he needed further material available only in the British
                    Museum and other English libraries regarding the origin of capitalism in the British Isles. And as I
                    had been in intimate contact with him and knew his thought, and since I had studied at Oxford and
                    knew both England and the English, the professor asked me to go with him to England as his research
                    assistant.
            I had already turned in my doctorate thesis and in less than three months would be taking final
                    examinations for my medical degree; but a chance to accompany my friend and benefactor to London was
                    too great an opportunity to miss. The next eight weeks were some of the most interesting and
                    instructive I ever spent. In the British museum and other libraries we studied tracts and pamphlets
                    of the 16th and 17th Centuries to find the impulse for development of Britain's colonial
                    expansion. We studied the Protestant religious movement to see what relation it had to the integrity
                    and solidity of the commercial Englishman's character. We interviewed bankers, members of
                    Parliament, cabinet ministers and political leaders. We visited the headquarters of the Fabian
                    Society, then less than twenty years old, whose socialistic tenets were then being taken over by the
                    British Labour Party."
            Our research was undertaken at a time when British industry and politics were involved in discussion
                    of whether to abandon the traditional English policy of free trade. Joseph Chamberlain, the
                    bemonocled Birmingham manufacturer who became politician and first Colonial Secretary ever to visit
                    the colonies while in office, had only recently fathered the "New Imperialism
                    policy" of preferential trade with the self-governing dominions. He had also fathered two
                    sons. 
                  
                     43 Professor Gerhart von Schulze-Gaevernitz was a member of the
                            Reichstag during World War I and also held the prestigious position of prorector of Freiburg
                            University. After the Lusitania was torpedoed and sunk on May 7, 1915, he
                            stood up in the Reichstag and demanded the resignation of Kaiser William 11. See Lyon, McClure, 373. After World War I he helped draw up the Constitution of the
                            Weimar Republic and was the first faculty member to be invited to the United States from
                            Germany to deliver a series of lectures at Columbia University. Interview with Mrs. Fanny
                            Scott Rumely, April 26, 1970; New York Times, May 6, 1970.
                  
                     44 For information on the Fabian socialist society see George Douglas
                            Howard Cole, Fabian Socialism (London, 1943): Edward Reynolds Pease, The History of the Fabian Society (New York, 1963).
               
                     Sir Austen, the eldest, when Chancellor of the Exchequer just
                    after World War I, secured parliamentary assent to the principle of preferential trade which his
                    father advocated fifteen years before. Later he became Secretary of State and helped to negotiate
                    the Locarno treaties which aimed at easing some of the wartime animosities.45
                    The younger son, Neville, as Prime Minister flew to Munich in 1938 and returned with what he thought
                    was "peace in our time."46
            
            A dinner party at the home of Sydney Goldmann, brother of my Freiburg laboratory teacher and an
                    associate of Cecil Rhodes in South Africa had a profound effect upon my power plowing development a
                    few years later. There were six of us at the table—four Englishmen, Professor Gaevernitz
                    and I, who had abandoned my peasant shirt and flowing tie for more conventional dress while in
                    London. Behind each chair was one man, with two helpers in the corner—eight servitors for
                    six of us. At Goldmann's right sat my professor. At his left was Joseph Chamberlain,
                    monocle and all. I sat at the foot of the table, and between me were Sir Arthur Jones, a Gaevernitz
                    brother-in-law, and another Englishman whose name I have forgotten.
            The dinner table conversation was a discussion of the long range view of development of the British
                    Empire such as I had never heard discussed before. The four Britishers agreed that Canada could no
                    longer be pictured as the Lady of the Snows with most of her land unfit for habitation, as had been
                    the policy of the Hudson's Bay Company in order to keep undisturbed its fur trade. They
                    described the vast treeless areas of undeveloped, potential wheatland which stretched across
                    Manitoba, Saskatchewan and Alberta. It was like the open land of the old West in the United States,
                    and the diners discussed the problem of keeping Canada British despite the probably heavy
                    immigration from the States. The conclusion was that even though Canada should be settled largely
                    from the United States it would remain British permanently if it could be held until one generation
                    had been put through the Dominion schools.
            
               
                  45 The Locarno Treaty of mutual guarantee was signed by five nations in
                        1925 in an effort to insure the Franco-German frontier from attack by either side. Since the
                        Rhineland had been a region of dispute for almost one thousand years, the Locarno Treaty was
                        given world wide acclaim. Nobel peace prizes were awarded to Britain's foreign
                        minister, Sir Austen Chamberlain, France's foreign minister, Aristide Briand, and the
                        German minister of foreign affairs, Gustav Stressemann. On March 7, 1936, Adolph Hitler
                        announced that he would no longer observe the Locarno Treaty and moved his troops into the
                        Rhineland. See Chester V. Easum, Half Century of Conflict (Ann Arbor, 1951),
                        91, 147, 151, 159, 215, 373, 401, 408, 425, 471, 504, 724.
               
                  46 Arthur Neville Chamberlain attempted to avert a general European war by
                        negotiating with Hitler the Munich Pact of September 30, 1938. Chamberlain was instrumental in
                        convincing France to sign the pact which permitted Hitler to annex the Sudetenland, one of the
                        border regions of Czechoslovakia. When Chamber lain returned to London, he held a press
                        conference and announced to the world that he had obtained "peace in our
                        time." Hitler waited six months and then repeated his pattern of conquest with the
                        occupation of Prague. See Iain MaCleod, Neville Chamberlain (New York, 1962),
                        221-57.
            
            
            That discussion opened my eyes to the fact that Canada was going to become wheatland with huge areas
                    comparable to our country west of the Mississippi and that here was the great new market for the
                    kind of machinery that my family made. The result was that a couple of major decisions that I
                    afterwards had to make were based on what I had learned that evening. When we brought out the
                    Oil-Pull tractor we solved the problem of developing western Canada. For to open the country to
                    wheat you needed but to plow and seed it, then wait 14 or 16 weeks and harvest your crop, and wait
                    until next spring. Animals would not be needed. Animals would be expensive to feed, and tractors
                    could open the Canadian prairies better than could be done with horses.
            I was so impressed by this authoritative information that I immediately wrote to my father urging him
                    to extend the field of operations of the M. Rumely Co. so as to include the Canadian market. He
                    didn't do this and the opening of our company's multi-million dollar trade with
                    Canada waited until 3 1/2 years later after I had returned to the States and had taken partial
                    control of the company's policy.
         
         
         
            A Community's Crisis: Hillsdale and the Essex Wire Strike
            
                    Michael A. Moore
                    ∗
                
            Violent and bloody strikes have long been a part of industrial relations between companies and labor
                    unions. From the 1870s until World War II the United States was racked by rail, mining, coal, steel,
                    and automobile strikes the violence of which set the stage for large scale confrontations among
                    union men, company guards, partisan crowds, police, and troops. Admittedly, federal, state, and
                    local governments have greatly reduced industrial tension by defining labor and management rights
                    and by interposing public authority as a balance between the two. It is also true that public and
                    private mediation boards, plus a more conciliatory attitude by labor and management toward each
                    other over the past twenty years, have tended to replace conflict with consensus.1
            
            But the United States has continued to experience more frequent and longer strikes than any other
                    nation in the world except Canada and Sweden, and a higher percentage of union members have been
                    involved in those strikes, again excepting Canada and Sweden.2 The reasons
                    offered for this situation have been: (1) unions have traditionally preferred economic
                    weapons—i.e., the strike, boycott, and/or blacklist—to political activity to
                    achieve their goals; (2) labor, management, and the public in general have strongly opposed
                    governmental intervention in labor disputes beyond a bare minimum, lest it set undesirable
                    precedents; (3) the great majority of contracts—over 80 per cent-negotiated between
                    unions and business have been on a plant by plant basis, rather than with the industry as a whole,
                    thus increasing the probability of disagreement; (4) certain industries are more prone to strikes
                    than others; (5) as the old issues separating labor and management in the past have been settled,
                    new and more difficult ones have arisen to take their place.3 The presence of
                    these elements in a labor dispute does not necessarily mean that a strike will be violent, for it is
                    the configuration of these factors, plus the social and economic context in which they occur, that
                    spells the difference. Thus, some important questions emerge. What kind of interaction 
                  
                     ∗ Michael A. Moore is associate professor of history,
                            Bowling Green State University, Bowling Green, Ohio. He was on the staff of Hillsdale
                            College during the Essex strike and served as secretary for the Hillsdale Ad Hoe
                            Citizens' Committee on Industrial Relations which investigated the
                            dispute's impact on the community.
                  
                     1 Arthur Ross and Paul T. Hartman, Changing Patterns of
                                Industrial Conflict (New York, 1960), chapter 5.
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., 162. See also Arthur Ross, "The Prospects for Industrial
                            Conflict," Industrial Relations, I (October, 1961), 58, where the
                            author lists the electrical manufacturers as among those industries most prone to strike.
                            This would include a company such as Essex Wire.
                  
                     3 Ross and Hartman, Changing Patterns of Industrial
                                Conflict, 162-67.
               
                     produces violence? What is the role of the social and economic
                    environment in aggravating that violence? Why is the violence difficult to stop once it starts in a
                    labor dispute?
            Most studies of labor violence have tended to concentrate on lengthy, mass strikes in urban areas,
                    but the Essex Wire Strike in Hillsdale, Michigan, occurred in a rural setting that involved only 140
                    workers and lasted but three months. Before the strike ended, however, the town, the company, the
                    county, and the union, together with outside partisans, became locked in one of the most intense and
                    bitter struggles in recent Michigan labor history. Only when Governor George Romney declared near
                    martial law, sent in 1,200 national guardsmen, closed down the plant, and took personal charge of
                    the negotiations did peace and order return. Until he intervened, Hillsdale, city and county, had
                    become a battleground for two very large, powerful, and determined adversaries, the Essex Wire
                    Corporation of Fort Wayne, Indiana, and the International Union of Electrical, Radio and Machine
                    Workers (IUE). Their actions made the strike a throwback to the industrial conflicts of the 1930s in
                    terms of the property damage, personal assaults, use of armed guards, racism, appearance of union
                    supporters from outside the town, and impassioned community involvement that it spawned. As the
                    director of Region 7 for the National Labor Relations Board subsequently observed: 
                        Within the framework of the experiences we have had in this office with strikes and other
                            types of labor disputes, there is no doubt that the Essex Wire 1964 strike was very unusual
                            in respect to its intensity and the hostilities engendered. We would have to go back to the
                            30's when organizational strikes among major companies were taking place readily to
                            find situations similar in respect to their intensity and bitterness.4
                  
                    
            
            On February 28, 1964, the 140 members of Local 810, IUE, walked off their jobs at the Hillsdale plant
                    of the Essex Wire Corporation demanding higher wages, more convenient scheduling of work shifts,
                    longer lunch hours, more precise job descriptions, and a system whereby the higher paying jobs in
                    the plant would be awarded on the basis of seniority rather than merit (job bidding procedure).5 The
                    strikers wanted their wages, which averaged $2.43 an hour, to be raised to the same
                    average level of $3.00 that their counterparts at 
                  
                     4 Jerome H. Brooks, regional director, National Labor Relations Board,
                            Region 7, to the author, October 2, 1969.
                  
                     5 Hillsdale Daily News. February 29, April 4, 1964.
                            Both Essex and the IUE were highly critical of what they believed to be biased reporting of
                            the strike by the Daily News. However, there appeared to be no overt bias;
                            if anything, the paper seemed to bend over backward to preserve its neutrality and to keep
                            its style of reporting from contributing to the violence. The only two editorials written on
                            the strikes, March 5 and May 13, 1964, both called for an end to violence and stricter law
                            enforcement. All newspapers, unless otherwise indicated, are located in Michigan.
               
                    
                    
                  IUE PICKETS AND ONLOOKERS IN FRONT OF ESSEX PLANT (LEFT)
                  Courtesy Hillsdale Daily News
               
                     the Fort Wayne plant, seventy miles away, were making.6 The laborers also demanded more voice in the scheduling of overtime because,
                    they said, the company was expecting workers to be on call at a moment's notice and would
                    fire them if they did not come in.7
            
            While these demands had immediate importance to the strikers, they were even more significant as
                    symbols of deep seated frustrations which workers had harbored ever since Essex had opened the
                    Hillsdale operation in 1957. The core of this frustration was the laborers' conviction that
                    they had no job security,8 because they believed that the company was pursuing a
                    policy of deliberate exploitation and that the two international unions which had represented them
                    prior to the IUE-the International Association of Machinists (1957-1960) and the International
                    Brotherhood of Teamsters (1960-1963)—had betrayed them.
            Company officials freely admitted that Essex opened its new plant in Hillsdale because the generally
                    low wage pattern allowed the corporation to pay lower wages than at nearby Fort Wayne.9 The Hillsdale plant also experimented with different production techniques, seeking more
                    efficient ways to make wire. This meant that there was constant shifting of men and jobs as the
                    management attempted different combinations of responsibilities and techniques.10 Under such circumstances detailed and permanent job descriptions were difficult, requiring
                    that employees trust management to deal fairly with them. The employees claimed, however, that the
                    company took unfair advantage by refusing even to designate which jobs were skilled, semiskilled, or
                    unskilled in order to maneuver employee assignments at will. Furthermore, they said, the company
                    under the guise of promoting men for reasons of merit and job qualifications, 
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., April 4, 1964; Albion Recorder, June 10, 1964.
                  
                     7 Hillsdale Daily News, April 4, 1964.
                  
                     8 Sanford Cohen, Labor in the United States (2nd
                            ed., Columbus, 1966). 289, points out that job security was one of the leading
                            causes—23 per cent—of strikes in 1963. Unlike the traditional issues
                            of wages, hours, and working conditions, job security reflected qualitative concerns by
                            employees who felt isolated and alienated by the growing bureaucracy of the impersonal
                            corporation. In an attempt to regain some control of what was happening to them unions began
                            demanding a voice in such matters as setting work rules, discipline, discharges, job
                            description, and job bidding. Many of these matters had traditionally been the prerogatives
                            of plant managers and administrators and therein lies the conflict.
                  
                     9 Paul Albrechta, Essex Wire Corporation counsel, and James A.
                            O'Connor, Essex vice president for manufacturing, in a statement to the Hillsdale
                            Inter-Church Council, March 4, 1964. Also Italo Bragalone, plant manager of the Hills dale
                            plant, in an interview with the author; the Reverend Gardiner Winn, First Presbyterian
                            Church; and the Reverend O. L. Merritt, First Methodist Church, representing the Ad Hoc
                            Citizens' Committee on Industrial Relations, May 7, 1964. (Hereafter referred to as
                            Ad Hoc Citizens' Committee.) The interviews with Bragalone and other strike
                            principals were handled by the author's taking notes during the conversation,
                            typing them up, and submitting them for correction. In the case of Bragalone's
                            interview, he correeted errors of fact and detail but made no substantive alterations.
                  
                     10 Bragalone interview, May 7, 1964.
               
                     actually rewarded men whose primary qualifications were loyalty
                    to management. Essex also hired new employees with no qualifications and "jumped"
                    them over long time workers. The reason, said the union, was that the company could thus get away
                    with paying even lower wages.11
            
            The local employees were equally bitter toward the two earlier international unions because they had
                    not improved working conditions. Both the IAM and the Teamsters, according to one local union
                    executive, had negotiated "sweetheart" contracts with Essex whereby the
                    international representatives accepted unfavorable terms for the local in return for favors to the
                    international by the company. The employees could not protest because the international
                    representatives "completely controlled" the local, by virtue of the union
                    constitutions, allowing them to so completely dominate the union meetings that they simply would not
                    recognize dissident members. During the tenure of the Teamsters the local had voted unanimously to
                    strike six different times, but the representatives refused to sanction it." When the
                    Teamsters began a new round of talks with Essex in June, 1963, and appeared to be heading toward
                    another sweetheart contract, the local had become so angry that the members rebelled and broke off
                    negotiations in July,13 petitioned the National Labor Relations Board to hold a
                    certification election, and when the vote was taken in November, replaced the Teamsters with the
                    IUE."
            The decision favoring IUE was not unanimous, for several local members had held out for the more
                    powerful United Auto Workers which they believed to be more militant. Thus, when negotiations began
                    again in January, 1964, the new IUE international representative, George Gould, not only had to pick
                    up the pieces of the original contract talks between Essex and the Teamsters, which had been dormant
                        
                  
                     11 George Gould, IUE international representative, in an interview
                            with the author, Winn, and Merritt, representing the Ad Hoc Citizens' Committee,
                            May 12, 1964.
                  
                     12 Neil Carsner, a member of IUE Local 810 executive committee, in a
                            statement to the Hillsdale Ad Hoc Citizens' Committee, June 11, 1964. The Ad Hoe
                            Com mittee, composed of between ten and thirty business, labor, educational, civic, and
                            governmental leaders, clergymen, and one college professor, met informally be tween May and
                            August, 1964, to seek to (1) reduce the tension and violence of the Essex strike; (2) bring
                            community understanding to the issues; (3) forestall future debacles. The chairman was the
                            Reverend Ralph W. Reynolds who was at the time pastor of the College Baptist Church.
                            Reynolds and the author handled various data and prepared a report, written by the author
                            and critiqued by Reynold, for the committee. This article is based on that report. The Ad Hoc Citizens' Committee minutes are in the author's
                            possession.
                  
                     13 The National Labor Relations Act of 1935 provided that employees
                            might petition the NLRB to hold elections to choose or replace collective bargaining agents.
                            In 1959 Congress enacted the Labor-Management Reporting and Disclosure Act which loosened
                            the controls of international unions over their locals. For a clear summary of this law see
                            Cohen, Labor in the United States, 176-78.
                  
                     14 Hillsdale Daily News, November 14, 1964.
               
                     since July; but he had to win the support of a demoralized,
                    bitter, and suspicious local.15
            
            The union's militance was equalled by that of the company which over the years since its
                    founding in 1937 had gained for itself a reputation for being a tough bargainer in labor
                        negotiations.16 Prior to the 1964 strike Essex had been before the NLRB five
                    times on charges of unfair labor practices but was acquitted in four of them.17
                    Even so, it was the impression of NLRB regional director Jerome H. Brooks, that, "Essex
                    Wire management in this [Hillsdale strike] as well as other instances takes a very hard and
                    inflexible position concerning its obligation to bargain with its employees through their
                    collective-bargaining agent concerning subject matters which in the historical past were considered
                    to be strictly for management to resolve."18
            
            This attitude stemmed in large part from the size and nature of the corporation. One of the giants of
                    American industry, Essex in 1963 ranked three hundredth in size among corporations and earned gross
                    receipts of $166 million, placing it among the fifty top money makers that year.19 The following year it took in $248.6 million.20 In 1964 it was a holding company for some fifty to one hundred sub sidiary corporations
                    such as Wagner Industries and Consolidated Brass in Michigan, Bryan Manufacturing in Ohio, and
                    Paranite in Marion and Jonesville, Indiana. Essex, however, was generally un known to the consumer
                    public, mainly because its products were sold to other industries (chiefly the automobile
                    manufacturers), because it did not issue stock on the open market, because its management was
                    closely controlled by a few, and because it did not make public the names of those who did own
                    shares in the company.21 Consequently, Essex gave insufficient attention to
                    public relations, which, as Frank Gallucci, vice president and general counsel, was to admit later,
                    con tributed a great deal to the company's difficulties during the dis pute.22 A more far reaching result was its relative freedom from having to account to others
                    outside management for its policies. Robert G. Howlett, a member (later chairman) of the Michigan
                    Labor 
                  
                     15 A member of Local 810 in an interview with the author, April 20,
                            1965.
                  
                     16 This was a general impression which the author gained from
                            conversations with various mediators from the NLRB and the Michigan Labor Relations Board.
                  
                     17 The NLRB cases are: 7-CA-4934; 7-CA-4572; 130 NLRB 450; and 19 NLRB
                            1384 which cleared Essex of unfair labor practice charges. 113 NLRB 344 found Essex guilty
                            of unfair labor practices at a California plant in 1955. See Labor Relations
                                Reference Manual, for assistance in locating cases mentioned.
                  
                     18 Jerome H. Brooks to the author, October 2, 1969.
                  
                     19 Gene Roberts and Carter Van Lopik, "Behind
                            Essex—A Hidden Empire," Detroit Free Press, June 7, 1964.
                  
                     20 New York Times, April 6, 1963, p. 50.
                  
                     21 Roberts and Van Lopik, "Behind Essex—A Hidden
                            Empire."
                  
                     22 Detroit Free Press, September 11, 1964.
               
                     Mediation Board, observed: "As a private corporation
                    Essex is in a position to adopt labor relations policies different from those of a publicly owned
                    corporation, which must be attuned to reaction of many shareholders."23
            
            Although Essex did not publicly spell out its labor relations policy until after the strike, the
                    Hillsdale plant manager, Italo Bragalone, made clear two basic points about it. The first was that
                    management intended "to retain its right to manage,'' which included the
                    right to determine the requirement of a job and who should fill it, "rather than turn that
                    responsibility over to the union who would like to have it." This did not preclude
                    negotiations about job requirements between management and labor, for, as Bragalone pointed out,
                    there were procedures for assigning jobs, for making sure that work loads were not too heavy on any
                    one person, and for settling arguments either through discussion with him or by taking them to a
                    grievance board. But the company was not about to give up its prerogative of establishing the
                    criteria for filling a job. It would be willing to modify its original decisions later through
                    negotiations with the union, but it would not permit the union to be involved in the original or
                    basic policy making where the ground rules were set.24
            
            The second point in Essex' labor relations, efficient production of wire, depended upon the
                    first. It was in the interest of efficiency that Essex moved to Hillsdale where it could pay lower
                    wages. It was in the interest of efficiency that there was constant shifting of men and work loads.
                    And it was in the context of efficiency that Bragalone criticized certain employee attitudes about
                    their wages and responsibility. "In more than 25 years in Fort Wayne I know of only two
                    grievances that have gone to arbitration," Bragalone observed; but at Hillsdale he
                    experienced seven or eight cases per week prior to the strike, at a cost of $1,000 per
                    case. The reason, to him, was that many employees were reluctant to give eight hours' work
                    for eight hours' pay. This attitude, he added, might have been shaped by memories of the
                    high wages and waste that characterized defense plant work during World War 11. But when the war
                    ended and the waste was eliminated, Hillsdale labor generally did not adjust and continued to
                    "expect more than what they were entitled to." When Essex came to Hillsdale,
                    Bragalone continued, it had to train its work force from the ground up, which cost the company money
                    and efficient production. As the work force improved, production quotas were 
                  
                     23 Robert G. Howlett, "The Battle of Hillsdale—The
                            Essex Wire Strike Emergency," Labor Law Journal, XV (December,
                            1964), 771. This article is a personal narrative by a member, later chairman, of the
                            Michigan Labor Mediation Board of the board's role in settling the strike. Howlett
                            stressed and supported Governor George Romney's actions in resolving the dispute.
                  
                     24 Bragalone interview, May 7, 1964.
               
                     raised but salaries were not, because, Bragalone seemed to
                    imply, the men were overpaid during their training period and now were expected to compensate until
                    the company recouped its investment outlay. However, Bragalone concluded, wages at Hillsdale
                    recently had been increasing at a faster rate than at Fort Wayne and in a twenty year period
                    "they would probably be equal to Ft. Wayne's."25
            
            Given such inflexible positions on job security versus management rights, it was scarcely surprising
                    that when contract talks resumed on January 15, 1964, they showed no progress. State mediators
                    reported to Howlett that neither Essex nor the IUE appeared eager to come to grips with the
                    substantive issues.26 Instead, both the union and the company accused each other
                    of using the time to prepare for the strike. A company publication issued after the strike said that
                    the IUE used the bargaining period to foment "strike fever" within the local,27 and the international union representative said during the strike that Essex
                    was contracting to import strikebreakers from West Virginia.28 After thirteen
                    fruitless sessions union leaders set a strike deadline for February 29.29 On
                    February 28, however, unknown people sabotaged tanks of insulating material inside the plant,
                    causing $8,000 damage according to company estimates.30 That night at
                    a union rally allegations that Essex vice president Paul Albrechta had signed a secret contract with
                    strikebreakers in West Virginia so angered the men that they decided not to return to work.31
            
            The next day revealed that both sides had dug in for a long battle. Gallucci, Essex vice president
                    and general counsel, indirectly charged that Local 810 had bargained in bad faith because members
                    had walked out even though the union had agreed to attend a bargaining session scheduled for
                    February 29. Gallucci also vowed that the plant would continue to operate "indefinitely and
                    on a permanent basis with out them [the strikers]"; at the same time the first group of
                    non-striking employees, these from Essex' Fort Wayne factory, came to 
                  
                     25
                            Ibid. Three fourths of the notes from the Bragalone interview deal with
                            efficiency.
                  
                     26 Howlett, "The Battle of Hillsdale," 770-71. The
                            negotiators included: Bragalone, Gallucci, and Albrechta for Essex; Charles Roselle,
                            president of Local 810: Gould; William Jack, shop steward; Rick Kelly and Jack Smith,
                            committee-men for IUE; Robert Pisarski representing the Michigan Labor Mediation Board; and
                            Frank Denner of the Federal Mediation and Conciliation Service.
                  
                     27
                            102 Crucial Days—Biography of the Strike that
                                Challenged the Free Enterpvise System (Fort Wayne, 1964), 7-8. See also Bragalone
                            to Essex employees, mimeographed letter, March 30, 1964, in which Bragalone accused the IUE
                            of having "a reputation for clever slogans, and convincing propaganda, that goes
                            back to its early communistic environment when it was called the United Electrical
                            Workers." Copy of letter on file at Essex Wire Corporation, Hillsdale.
                  
                     28 Gould interview, May 12, 1964.
                  
                     29 Howlett, "The Battle of Hillsdale," 772.
                  
                     30
                            102 Crucial Days, 8.
                  
                     31 Ted Nolan, IUE field representative, to the Hillsdale Daily News,
                            February 29, 1964.
               
                     work at Hillsdale.32 The company also
                    advertised for more non-strikers in newspapers of nearby cities.33 About
                    thirty-five of the nonstrikers who came were Negroes.
            On February 29 union pickets piled logs in the company driveways and set them afire to block traffic.
                    The presence of Ted Nolan, an IUE field representative, was the beginning of appearances by groups
                    of union men from outside Hillsdale to demonstrate their support of Local 810. The IUE opened a
                    "field headquarters unit" in a mobile trailer acrass the street from the plant and
                    set up shanties on the sidewalk in front.34
            
            Violence attended the first full day of the strike when pickets unsuccessfully tried to prevent the
                    Fort Wayne employees from entering the plant, and a picket was struck by a car that he and others
                    tried to keep from leaving.35 Three days later on March 2 a truck driver tried
                    to enter the driveway and was beaten while his passenger had ammonia thrown in his face. Gould
                    denied that the pickets were responsible, but there was no denial when, on the following day,
                    pickets lit the logs again and roughed up Albrechta when he tried to enter the plant.36 This pattern was to be repeated continuously throughout the strike: a fight would occur
                    involving numbers of pickets, sympathetic onlookers, and company personnel; Essex would claim that
                    the IUE assaulted their men while the union charged that management, particularly Albrechta, would
                    deliberately provoke them with taunts and curses. Police took names but did not make arrests since
                    they were under orders only to keep the situation "under surveillance."37
            
            The initial display of violence set in motion a series of moves and countermoves by Essex and the IUE
                    as each side tried to gain a tactical advantage over the other. On March 3 company lawyers obtained
                    a court injunction limiting the number of pickets to three at each entrance to the plant and
                    forbidding the use of weapons, violence, threats, and intimidations by strikers. But union counsels
                    pointed out that the judge, Robert McIntyre, was a member of a law firm that had done business with
                    Essex less than three years before the strike and, therefore, under Michigan law had been ineligible
                    to hear the case.38 The same was true of the local prosecuting attorney, James
                        
                  
                     32 Hillsdale Daily News, February 29. 1964.
                            According to the company's seniority list, on file at the personnel office, Essex
                            hired a total of 161 people during the strike. There was extremely rapid turnover, however;
                            some twenty-nine stayed a week or less and thirty-eight others quit before the end of the
                            dispute.
                  
                     33 While Essex spokesmen claimed they advertised only in Detroit and
                            Jackson newspapers, advertisements were found elsewhere as well. See Coldwater Daily
                            Reporter, April 18, 20, 21, 22, 23, 24, 1964.
                  
                     34 Hillsdale Daily News, February 29, 1964.
                  
                            35
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., March 3, 1964.
                  
                     37
                            Ibid., March 20, 1964. Police made no arrests until May 27.
                  
                     38
                            Michigan General Court Rules (St. Paul, 1963), section 104.
               
                     Parker. McIntyre and Parker disqualified themselves, the
                    injunction was vacated, and the new judge, John Dalton, urged everyone to return to the bargaining
                    table and refused to issue the injunction until both sides could present full arguments.39 There was no gain for either side.
            Essex and the IUE then sought to increase their power by getting outside help. On March 5 Essex
                    published an advertisement in the local newspaper entitled "The Shame of
                    Hillsdale," wherein the company blamed the town for permitting the violence and lawlessness
                    at the plant. "You may ask, ‘where are the police’? … They
                    have tried but they admit they can't handle it." Thus, "The Shame of
                    Hillsdale lies in the fact that, apparently if one is strong enough, one can break every law in the
                    books, with impunity." In conclusion the advertisement asked, "Can't it
                    be corrected? It's your problem as well as ours."40
            
            Five days later the company answered its part of the problem by importing the first of twenty-eight
                    armed guards to protect the plant from property damage. The company with which Essex was insured had
                    demanded the armed guards and urged the company to "comply at once."41 Although the union tried to get the guards removed, first through court action and then
                    by a visit to the mayor's office by one hundred wives of the strikers, both Judge Dalton
                    and Mayor C. Audrey Paul replied that the hiring was legal and that there were enough state police
                    to support the local law enforcement agencies in protecting lives.42 The armed
                    guards not only provided a defense against property damage but also protected the nonstrikers by
                    escorting them from their homes outside Hillsdale to work and back. This gave the company an
                    offensive weapon against the strikers.
            The union's appeal to outside support was in the form of the Inter-Union Council of Essex
                    Wire Workers.43 This council, composed of Essex employees in Michigan, Ohio, and
                    Indiana, cut across union organizational lines to include representatives from the International
                    Association of Machinists, the United Auto Workers, the International Brotherhood of Electrical
                    Workers, and the Allied Industrial Workers. The council's goals were to exchange
                    information on contracts and labor policies at Essex plants and to assist all plants in the event of
                    a strike such as Hillsdale's. Although it was not stated, 
                  
                     39 Hillsdale Daily News, March 11, 1964.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., March 5, 1964.
                  
                     41 Robert J. Grow of Grow, Kellar, Englebert, and Freese, Inc.,
                            Detroit, Michigan, to T. P. Sharples, Essex Wire Corporation, Fort Wayne, Indiana, March 3,
                            1964. Letter on file at the Hillsdale County Courthouse, Office of the County Clerk, Civil
                            Case 1-216.
                  
                     42 Hillsdale Daily News, March 20, 1964.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., April 4, 1964. Gloria Johnson, IUE Economics and Research
                            Department, to Ted Nolan, May 7, 1964. This letter listed nineteen Essex plants organized by
                            the IUE. The letter is in the possession of the author.
               
                     such an organization could have the effect of guaranteeing
                    uniform patterns of wages, hours, and working conditions throughout Essex and prevent any divide and
                    conquer tactics by the company.
            Moves and countermoves characterized the bargaining sessions. Although state mediators had started up
                    the talks again in late March, nothing happened until April 22, when the union suddenly offered to
                    return to work unconditionally, provided the company attached no conditions to the men's
                        return.44 This proposal of a status quo ante was a shrewd bargaining tactic,
                    for it forced Essex to choose between two unpleasant alternatives. If the company accepted the offer
                    at face value, it would have to accept employees as they chose to come back, rather than laying down
                    the criteria by which to rehire. This in effect would signify a union inroad into management right
                    to manage. Furthermore, Essex had by this time hired some thirty non-strikers whom it was publicly
                    committed to retain. If all the union men returned to work, these men would not be needed. But Essex
                    could not reject the IUE's offer without appearing to the public as a selfish employer,
                    more interested in the company's welfare than the community's.
            Essex did accept the proposal but reserved the right to call men back "upon individual
                    application … as the company determines … necessary for the orderly resumption
                    of operations without regard to seniority."45 Bragalone also stated
                    that the company would not rehire several strikers because of alleged misconduct on the picket
                        line.46 The union, which was in a position to decide what constituted
                    "conditions of return," claimed that the company was imposing conditions, withdrew
                    its offer, and continued the strike.47
            
            The result of these flanking maneuvers gave the company a temporary advantage over the union but at
                    considerable damage to its relations with the community. As long as it continued to produce and ship
                    wire, Essex was winning the strike. The use of armed guards to escort nonstrikers into the plant and
                    to their homes—some as far away as Jackson, Michigan, thirty miles
                    distant—guaranteed that there were enough workers to man the machines. Occasionally the
                    state police escorted company trucks to the Michigan state line as a precaution against violence;48 this had the added effect of helping Essex meet its delivery schedules. The
                    hiring of nonstrikers and 
                  
                     44 Hillsdale Daily News, April 23, 1964.
                  
                     45 Bragalone to Essex employees, mimeographed letter, April 22, 1964.
                            A copy of the letter is in the possession of the author. Howlett notes that Bragalone
                            deleted the phrase "upon individual application" when Gould objected to it
                            in an early draft of the letter. No reason was given, however, for its appearance in the
                            final copy. Howlett, "The Battle of Hillsdale," 775.
                  
                     46 Hillsdale Daily News, April 25. 1964.
                  
                     47
                            Ibid., April 26: 1964.
                  
                     48 A photograph of police escorting Essex trucks, ibid., March 10, 1964.
               
                     armed guards—particularly the
                    latter—produced extremely adverse effects on community residents. Not only did many
                    object to what they considered the naked exercise of power by the company which threatened to upset
                    an already uneasy peace, but the presence of black men among the nonstrikers and
                    guards—in an all white rural community—fanned racial hatreds. Bragalone
                    claimed that the company hired nonstrikers on a first come basis without regard to race, but he
                    admitted that no black had ever been hired before at Hillsdale. Gould's explanation for the
                    hiring of black workers was that Essex was "getting even" with Hillsdale for
                    anticompany attitudes and the refusal by police to protect its property.49
            
            Throughout the strike workers, company personnel, and anxious residents demanded that the local
                    police enforce the law against violence more vigorously. Both Essex and the IUE had earlier
                    condemned the city administration for timidity, and the company had pointed to the lack of arrests
                    as partial justification for hiring the armed guards.30 The control over the
                    local police was in the hands of Mayor Paul and Acting Prosecutor Emil Fry. The mayor believed that
                    police "surveillance" could keep the situation in hand, and he held to that
                    position even after the company brought in armed guards. When the wives of the pickets appealed to
                    Mayor Paul to break up suspected stockpiling of weapons in the plant and to protect their husbands
                    from the guards, he replied that the presence of the Michigan State Police would
                    preserve order.51 His position was supported by Circuit Court Judge Dalton;? and
                    Lieutenant Governor T. John Lesinski53 who gave assurances that the state would
                    stand behind the police and the sheriff.
            Surveillance, however, could be effective only if it contained an ultimate implication of force,
                    i.e., arrests and indictments, and neither Mayor Paul nor Prosecutor Fry was willing to make that
                    commitment. Mayor Paul had said of Essex and the strikers that "if they break the law they
                    will be arrested," and Fry added that he would "back up the law enforcement
                    agencies 100 per cent."54 Yet Paul compromised his position when he
                    said that the strike was not a local matter and that his administration was caught between
                    "large outside forces" seeking to make the dispute a test case for the entire
                    magnet wire industry.55 Indeed, his comparing the conflict to a "great
                    game of chess" perhaps suggests that he saw the city agencies as mere 
                  
                     49 Gould interview, May 12, 1964.
                  
                     50 Hillsdale Daily News. March 14, 1964.
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., March 20, 1964.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., March 11, 1964.
                  
                     53 Cadillac Evening News, March 13, 1964.
                  
                     54 Hillsdale Daily News, April 16, 1964.
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., March 20, 1964.
               
                     pawns. The mayor's statement of impotence was
                    magnified into grave consequences by the prosecutor's actions; for, as a state labor
                    mediation board member was surprised to learn, "arrests had not been made by either state
                    or local police on instructions from the substitute Prosecuting Attorney. This was
                    an amazing revelation, which for some unknown reason had not been communicated to the authorities in
                        Lansing."56
            
            The city's decision to rely upon police surveillance without arrests indicated that the
                    community did not fully grasp the realities of the Essex dispute. When big business and big unions
                    clash, the effect reaches well beyond immediate economic issues into political and social realms.
                    This demands the intervention of a disinterested third force, hopefully in a persuasive function,
                    but, if necessary, in a coercive role. By underestimating the full impact of the Essex-IUE strike
                    and by preventing arrests and prosecutions the city seriously weakened the effectiveness of the
                    public "third force." There was, then, no effective law enforcement at a time when
                    the atmosphere was increasingly poisoned by constant fights at and away from the picket lines, by
                    the economic and racial prejudice against the armed guards and nonstriking workers, and by the large
                    crowds of increasingly partisan spectators.
            If the city's role in preventing violence was so crucial, why did not Paul and Fry face up
                    to that responsibility? The immediate answer from them was that they believed arrests would provoke
                    more violence.57 Even though the judge and the lieutenant governor had assured
                    them of adequate police support, this apparently did not counteract the feeling of helplessness
                    expressed by the mayor at the struggle of these two giants. There was also the practical problem of
                    getting witnesses to corroborate the arresting officer's testimony in court. Several
                    officials told the Ad Hoc Citizens' Committee that the prosecutor would probably not have
                    been able to build a case against a striker accused of breaking the law, thus exposing the police to
                    charges of false arrest.58
            
            If, however, the mayor and the prosecutor hesitated to crack down on the strikers for their violence,
                    they risked alienating Essex to the point that it might leave the town. On the first day of the
                    strike a reporter asked Gallucci if the plant would shut down and leave. The vice president replied
                    that it would "if we can't operate economically."59
                    On May 3 Bragalone added: "Hillsdale has let a lot of industry leave. I can name Monroe
                    Auto, Paramount Manufacturing, and 
                  
                     56 Howlett, "The Battle of Hillsdale," 775. Italics
                            added.
                  
                     57 Hillsdale Daily News, March 14, April 15, 1964; Albion Recorder, June 2, 1964.
                  
                     58 Ad Hoc Citizens' Committee minutes, June 11, 1964.
                  
                     59 Hillsdale Daily News, February 29, 1964.
               
                     Allied Products plant, and the Dana Corporation which had this
                    plant before we moved in. Most of them left because of labor trouble. It's a shame.
                    Hillsdale needs us and several more like us. It isn't growing."60
            
            Although the mayor denied that the companies left solely because of labor trouble, they nevertheless
                    had left, and their departure had created some serious employment problems.61 Of
                    particular anguish was the departure of Allied Products which left in 1961 in the midst of a strike
                    with the United Auto Workers, claiming that the UAW's wage demands would have priced it out
                    of the competitive market. Mayor Paul as well as others saw parallels between that strike and the
                    Essex dispute and feared that it might have the same result.62 Thus, the mayor
                    urged both Essex and the IUE to consider the economy of Hillsdale and reminded them of the
                    town's attempts to attract new industry to replace Allied.63
            
            Bringing industry to Hillsdale was an urgent matter. The county in the early 1960s found itself in
                    the midst of a painful transition from an agricultural to an industrial economy with a large number
                    of people not able to make a decent living at either. Of the 2,532 working farms in the county
                    nearly one half (1,025) earned less than $2,500 in 1962, while another 625 grossed
                    between $2,500 and $5,000.64 Furthermore, farm
                    indebtedness was increasing, taxes were taking a larger bite of farm income, and farm investments
                    were earning a lower rate of interest.64 The basic problem was that there were
                    too many small farms, and officials such as Albert T. Hall, county extension agent, urged that farms
                    be consolidated and that 110 new jobs in industry be created each year to take up the slack created
                    by the decline of agriculture.66
            
            But industry could not fill the gap. In 1962 over one fifth of the working force of Hillsdale County
                    went outside the county to work.67 The median income per family was the lowest
                    in southern Michigan,68 and the income distribution per family was so bad that
                    slightly less than 10 per cent of the top income families received one third of the 
                  
                     60 Gene Roberts, "Hillsdale: Town with Big Trouble,"
                            Detroit Free Press, May 3, 1964.
                  
                     61 Hillsdale Daily News, February 29, 1964.
                  
                     62
                            Ad Hoc Citizens' Committee minutes, June 11, 1964.
                  
                     63 Hillsdale Daily News, February 29, 1964.
                  
                     64 Hillsdale County Planning Commission, "Hillsdale County,
                            Michigan: Its Resources and Their Development" (mimeographed report to the
                            Hillsdale County Board of Supervisors, 1962), 26. This report, hereafter cited as Planning
                            Commission Report, was authorized in October, 1961, by the Hillsdale County Board of Su.
                            pervisors. It investigated developments in industry, water resources and recreation,
                            education, population, and health and welfare.
                  
                     65
                            Ibid., 29.
                  
                     66 Ad Hoc Citizens' Committee minutes, June 25, 1964.
                  
                     67 Planning Commission Report, 19.
                  
                     68
                            Ibid., 1.
               
                     county's total income while the bottom one third of
                    the county's families earned less than 10 per cent.69 Unemployment was
                    above the average for the state, and the limited amount of property subject to taxation restricted
                    the level of public services that the county and city agencies could provide. Nor could the county
                    anticipate any rapid growth in population which could stimulate industry. Since the population of
                    the city of Hillsdale had grown by only 4.6 per cent (to 7,629) between 1950 and 1960, and since the
                    county as a whole had increased by 8.9 per cent (to 34,742) during the same decade, the Industrial
                    Planning Commission could foresee an increase of only 3,000 persons by 1970.70
            
            Accompanying such grim data were equally somber attitudes which were uncovered by the planning
                    commission in its report to the County Board of Supervisors. Several area merchants voiced their
                    feelings to the commission that the ambitious and capable workers were moving away from Hillsdale,
                    city and county, leaving behind "the less enterprising ad ambitious workers who
                    … [were] not interested in improving themselves~."71 While
                    that remark perhaps said as much about the merchants as their employees, the mood of pessimism was
                    plain enough. In one of the principal conclusions of its report, the commission stated, "As
                    a whole, the area wants industrial growth, and the prosperity that goes with it; but many citizens
                    don't want changes. They like life the way it is, tucked away in the hills of southern
                        Michigan."72
            
            Fry and Paul, then, not only had to operate within a community that found itself in an industrial
                    backwater but also had to contend with a general attitude of defeat and suspicion. Essex'
                    labor policies definitely did not have the community's welfare in mind, but neither did the
                    IUE's pressure tactics. Thus, city leaders responsible for enforcing the law were paralyzed
                    by a number of fears and seemingly irresistible forces: the fear of antagonizing either the IUE or
                    Essex, the history of industry moving out, a generally depressed economy, a prevalent mood of
                    pessimism—all of which were fanned into violence by a company and union each bent on
                    victory regardless of the cost to the city and county. These elements, then, helped produce the
                    circumstances which made the community unable to contain and isolate the strike. The bitter fruit of
                    this crisis was the increase of violence not only on the picket line but in the community.
            Picket line incidents were the most numerous when the shifts changed, particularly when the evening
                    workers came on at 7 P.M. The 
                  
                     69
                            Ibid., 22.
                  
                     70
                            Ibid., 15, 24.
                  
                     71
                            Ibid., 71.
                  
                     72
                            Ibid., 64.
               
                     scene at Essex included a number of nonstrikers escorted by
                    guards trying to force their way into or out of the plant and scuffling with over one hundred
                    pickets plus union sympathizers from out of town. Curious onlookers together with reporters, five or
                    six local police, and about twenty Michigan State Police usually swelled the crowd to perhaps two or
                    three hundred people. Many spectators would hurry over to the plant after a hasty supper to see
                    "what was doing"; others whose close friends or relatives were on the picket line
                    had more partisan motives.
            Company and union negotiators, at the urging of state and federal mediators, continued to meet
                    sporadically, but they got nowhere; the real bargaining had shifted to the picket line where power
                    had replaced persuasion as a means of settling the strike. In the second week of April a bomb blew a
                    hole in the company's roof and broke numerous windows. Several days later pickets tipped
                    over a car containing four Indiana men who came to work, they said, in response to an Essex
                    advertisement in a Fort Wayne newspaper. One of the men said, "I didn't know what
                    I was getting into. I have never seen this plant before. I am sorry that I came up here";
                    but police found clubs in his car. That same night, April 15, as the evening shift came on, pickets
                    again blocked the driveway. A car with armed guards "swept through the crowd"
                    followed by a truck containing nonstrikers. The truck was stopped and rolled, and the three men
                    inside fled into the plant. Later that night one of the pickets was shot by a pellet gun. The union
                    claimed that it was fired from the plant, but Bragalone denied this.73
            
            Prior to the IUE's "unconditional offer," April 17-26, the violence had
                    been confined to the plant site. But as the possibilities of a negotiated settlement waned,
                    incidents began to occur throughout the county. On May 7 in the village of Pulaski, approximately
                    fifteen miles from Hillsdale, unknown assailants attacked a convoy of non-strikers and armed guard
                    escorts on their way home to Jackson. During the melee windows were smashed, a car was overturned,
                    and fights occurred in several parts of the village. Again the note of racism was sounded when a
                    resident told reporters that a Negro took a swing at him for "siding with whites"
                    when he ordered a mob out of his front yard. Four nights later fifteen masked men broke into the
                    city power plant and tried to force the three employees there to shut off electricity to the Essex
                    factory. Although the invaders harmed no one and left peaceably when shown that it was impossible to
                    turn off Essex' power without blacking out almost the entire city, townspeople were in an
                    uproar. The newspaper carried a front page editorial 
                  
                     73 Hillsdale Daily News, April 8, 16, 1964.
               
                     which condemned the violence and demanded stricter law
                        enforcement.74 Concerned business, professional, union, and political
                    persons formed the Ad Hoc Citizens' Committee on Industrial Relations to gather and
                    disseminate information about the strike in the hopes of improving communications and reducing
                    tensions. Governor Romney increased the number of state police at the plant, and the city council
                    purchased a steel gate—with a lock—for the power plant.75
            
            The climax to the violence began May 26 when the evening shift came to work at 7 P.M. escorted by
                    armed guards. As usual, there was a large crowd, but the conflict of the previous two weeks had
                    keyed up many of them. As the nonstrikers' cars approached the plant, people started to
                    pelt them with eggs; and one car, trying to avoid being hit, bumped the car of Jack Bowditch, vice
                    president of Local 810. When Bowditch got out and "approached" the
                    non-strikers' car he was slashed on the face.76 The car containing
                    three men raced into the plant, discharged one passenger, and then tried to get away, but local
                    police stopped it and cited the driver for careless operation. The crowd ran up to the car, yelling
                    to policemen that the driver had "thrown something" into the trunk and demanded
                    that they search it. The driver refused permission, the police took him to the station, and the
                    angry crowd followed. Surrounding the police station the crowd of anywhere between 250 and 500
                    continually demanded that the car be searched, but Gould calmed them down and with the sheriff
                    persuaded them to disperse." About midnight the two men were released, and they started
                    home to Jackson with an armed guard escort. They were followed by a number of strikers and
                    sympathizers who forced the guards' car off the road in Jonesville, five miles away. The
                    two armed guards, both black, were attacked, and in the fighting one was shot.77
                    This time assailants were arrested and were identified as two brothers, Angelo and Joseph Lo Presto,
                    who had no official connection with the strike.78
            
            The next night, May 27, there was an even greater outburst, starting when guards escorted the day
                    shift out of the plant. Pickets 
                  
                     74
                            Ibid., May 8, 12, 13, 1964.
                  
                     75 Hillsdale Daily News, May 27, 1964.
                  
                     76 The use of verbs in the passive voice illustrates the difficulty of
                            determining the facts of picket line violence. The newspapers were generally restrained and
                            cautious in reporting the incidents of May 27-28, and while one might reasonably know what
                            Bowditch was thinking when he "approached" the nonstrikers' car,
                            one cannot be sure who slashed him or if the assailant was in the car. The account states
                            that Bowditch accused Ollie Prater of doing it with a "sharp instrument."
                            Hillsdale Daily News, May 27, 1964.
                  
                     77
                            Ibid. There was disagreement among the newspapers on the number of people
                            in the crowd.
                  
                     78 When the wounded guard was taken to Hillsdale's hospital,
                            frightened administrators "hid" him in the children's ward lest a
                            mob storm the doors and "bring him out." The entire hospital held ninety
                            beds.
                  
                     79 Hillsdale Daily News, May 27, 1964.
               
                     threw rocks at the cars and smashed windshields. When a guard
                    got out of his car, the crowd surged toward him. He drew his gun, someone clubbed him, and the gun
                    fired. Miraculously, no one was hit, but the state police hustled the guard back into the car and
                    allowed it to speed away in order, they said, "to save them [the men inside] from the
                    crowd." Three stonethrowers were arrested and taken to jail where they joined the
                    Jonesville assailants. Again, a crowd estimated at five hundred gathered, breaking windows and
                    cursing the police for allowing the guard to go free. The seven man police force and
                    sheriff's deputies appealed for reinforcements from adjacent counties its well as the state
                    police, and sixty men responded. A thoroughly frightened mayor and city council, deciding that law
                    enforcement had completely broken down, asked Governor Romney to declare martial law and send in the
                    national guard.80
            
            The governor dispatched one thousand troops to Hillsdale that night, but instead of declaring martial
                    law he proclaimed a "state of public emergency" under a 1945 statutex'
                    enacted in the wake of the Detroit race riots. This law gave him greater latitude in deciding the
                    nature and extent of interposing state authority; yet it allowed city government to remain in local
                    hands. Accordingly, Romney banned all firearms from the city, evicted the armed guards from the
                    plant, forbade any public gathering of more than five persons, told the strikers to remove their
                    shanties from in front of the plant and—most significantly—ordered Essex to
                    shut down operations. He also summoned company and union negotiators to meet with the state Labor
                    Mediation Board and himself in Lansing to resume the bargaining.82
            
            The IUE and other international unions, as well as the city council and townspeople in general,
                    applauded Romney's actions, particularly the closing of the plant and the removal of the
                    guards. One minister offered the use of his churchyard as a bivouac area for guardsmen, and the
                    president of Local 810, Charles Roselle, said: the intervention "is the best thing that
                    could have happened as far as we're concerned." The company, naturally, was highly
                    displeased, and President Walter Probst threatened to sue Romney for depriving Essex of its property
                    rights under the Fourteenth Amendment.83
            
            Romney's intervention into the dispute required him to juggle two major problems. He had to
                    make sure his legal grounds for closing the plant remained firm.84 Also, he did
                    not want to be placed in 
                  
                     80
                            Ibid., May 28, 1964.
                  
                     81 Governor's Emergency Power, Act 302 (1945) in Michigan Statutes Annotated (rev. ed., Mundelin, Ill., 1969), 11.
                  
                     82 Hillsdale Daily News, May 29, 1964. The law had
                            been invoked only twice before in natural disasters at Anchor Bay and Holland.
                  
                     83 Toledo (Ohio) Blade, May 28, 29, 1964.
                  
                     84 Ann Arbor News, May 30, 1964.
               
                     a position of appearing to take sides in the dispute;85 yet he had the responsibility for keeping a peace that could not be assured
                    until a contract was signed. The governor was in constant touch with his attorney general, Frank
                    Kelley, who assured him that as long as the closing of the plant was necessary to maintain public
                    order, he was on solid ground. But this demanded a continual reassessment of the situation, and on
                    June 1 Romney flew to Hillsdale to confer with city officials, community residents, and several
                    clergymen. They all urged Romney to keep the plant closed, and after touring the plant area, he
                    admitted that "the threats to life and property are more serious than had been realized. I
                    didn't realize the extent to which community residents were organized for armed combat down
                        there."86
            
            Yet, after returning to Lansing, he rescinded the order closing the plant, increased the number of
                    guardsmen to 1,200, placed the entire county under the terms of his May 29 edict, sealed off the
                    area around the plant to everyone except authorized company personnel and employees, and ordered a
                    10 P.M. to 6 A.M. curfew for the county.87 Two members of the state Labor
                    Mediation Board, chairman Malcolm Lovell and Howlett, pointed out to the governor that his reopening
                    the plant would have adverse effects on their attempts to get an agreement between Essex and the
                    IUE, but Romney replied that he could not allow his maintenance of law and order to be affected by
                    the course of bargaining. Now that the weapons and armed guards had been removed he could no longer
                    justify closing the plant.88 While the plant was closed, May 28-June 2,
                    negotiations appeared to be making progress.89 With the reopening of the
                    factory, however, the talks foundered on the issues of wages and rehiring. The company wanted to
                    keep its nonstrikers and refuse reemployment to fifteen union men because of alleged misconduct on
                    the picket line.90
            
            While the governor carefully and publicly stated that his only legitimate authority was the
                    preservation of order, his subsequent actions showed a willingness to use his office to pressure the
                    combatants into a settlement. It appeared that his method was to call public attention to the
                    misconduct of all parties to the dispute. The day after the plant reopened, the governor asked
                    Attorney General Kelley whether he could reclose the plant. Kelley replied that this would be legal
                    so long as the governor was convinced it was in the interests of protecting lives and property. That
                    same day the National Labor Relations Board charged both Essex and the IUE with violations of the
                        
                  
                     85 Robert G. Howlett to the author, July 13, 1966.
                  
                     86 Albion Evening Recorder, June 2, 1964.
                  
                     87 Hillsdale Daily News, June 2, 1964.
                  
                     88 Howlett to the author, July 13, 1966.
                  
                     89 Hillsdale Daily News, June 1, 1964.
                  
                     90 Detroit Free Press, June 3, 1964.
               
                     Taft-Hartley Act.91 While Brooks, who was
                    acting director of Region 7, criticized the union for allowing the picket line violence, he appeared
                    to be more pointed in his assessment of the company's actions. "The
                    company," he wrote, "has not bargained in good faith and has not made a genuine
                    attempt to reach a settlement … and as a result the strike has become an unfair labor
                        practice."92 The governor exerted still more pressure when he
                    criticized the company, the union, and the community for failing to contain the violence. While he
                    said that Essex and the IUE were at least thirty years behind the times in their concepts of
                    labor-management relations, he added, with apparent emphasis, that the company refused to accept any
                    responsibility for what had happened.93 "I have no doubt," he
                    said, "that the company is guilty of unfair labor practices … and worse. It has
                    ignored the community and the public interest and in fact has been completely indifferent to
                        it."94 Finally, on June 5, he brought Probst and IUE International
                    president, James Carey, together in his office for direct negotiations.95
            
            After an all night session the two presidents, the governor, and the state Labor Mediation Board
                    reached a settlement.96 The new contract called for: (1) general wage increases
                    of ten cents per hour immediately, a 234 per cent increase the following year, and a 3 per cent
                    raise for each of the third and fourth years of the contract; (2) premium pay increases, beyond the
                    ten cent increase, of five and ten cents an hour for the afternoon and evening shift workers
                    respectively; (3) an extra holiday with pay in addition to the seven already established; (4) a work
                    week for those on rotating shifts of five days on and two off rather than the former six and two
                    schedule; (5) three weeks' vacation after fifteen years' service instead of two;
                    (6) plant wide seniority; (7) "a vastly improved bidding procedure"; (8)
                    "a streamlined grievance procedure"; (9) a completely union shop; (10) time and a
                    half pay for working on one's day off and double time for working a seventh consecutive
                        day.97
            
            As might be expected the contract contained several compromises. The wage agreements represented an
                    advance for the union beyond the company's original offer of a flat eighteen cents an hour
                    increase; however, they were less than the $3.00 per hour total that the union demanded.
                    The company had wanted the contract to run for five 
                  
                     91
                            Ibid., June 3, 4, 1964.
                  
                     92 Albion Evening Recorder, June 4, 1964.
                  
                     93 Detroit Free Press, June 4, 1964.
                  
                     94 Grand Rapids Press, June 4, 1964.
                  
                     95 Howlett, "The Battle of Hillsdale," 780.
                  
                     96
                            Ibid., 780-81. Howlett gives an interesting sketch of the personalities Of
                            Probst and Carey as well as their style of negotiating.
                  
                     97 Muskegon Western Michigan CZO, June 10, 1964; Detroit Free Press,
                            June 7, 1964.
               
                     years and the union wanted three; they settled on four.
                    Although the company said it would take back all the IUE strikers, including the fifteen men it
                    fired for alleged misconduct on the picket line, the IUE agreed that they could be hired last.98
            
            Gould and the IUE negotiators were satisfied with the new contract, but they ran into stiff
                    opposition from members of Local 810 when they took it back for ratification. The memory of alleged
                    sellouts by former internationals, the bitterness of the strike, and the placing of the fifteen
                    strikers at the bottom of the hiring list made it difficult for many to accept anything short of all
                    out victory. On June 7 the union voted to send it back for further negotiations,99 and Gould admitted that he had not anticipated the "strong feelings" of
                    the men on the issues.100 He spent the next two days trying to convince the
                    local that this was the best contract obtainable under the circumstances. "The
                    question," he said, "is how much more can you get than you've got now. If
                    this is rejected, we're going to lose community support, state support, and we're
                    going to weaken our case before the National Labor Relations Board."101
                    On June 9 the local reconsidered the contract and ratified it.102 The strike was
                    over.
            It required only one day for the state police and national guardsmen to leave Hillsdale. By then
                    almost all the strikers had returned to work,103 and the IUE field
                    representatives, outside unions, and non-strikers had gone home. Although residents were able to
                    breathe easier at the removal of tension and violence, several questions remained to vex those who
                    looked back over the three months in bewilderment. Why did not the local police make arrests early
                    in the strike and patrol the plant site more vigorously? Why did local residents involve themselves?
                    Should not the company and the union have conducted themselves more responsibly when the results of
                    their actions became apparent?
            The day after the strike ended Essex published a booklet entitled 102 Crucial Days,
                    which gave the company's version of the strike. The booklet's professional format,
                    its pictorial layout, and a release date coinciding with the strike's end demonstrated
                    extensive preparation and planning over a period of time. In blaming everyone but itself for the
                    strike and the violence, the company assured readers that the IUE had not taken away any of its
                    fundamental management rights including: 
                  
                     98 Detroit Free Press, June 7, 1964.
                  
                     99 Toledo (Ohio) Blade, June 8, 1964.
                  
                     100 Jackson Citizen-Patriot, June 8, 1964.
                  
                     101 Albion Evening Recorder, June 8, 1964.
                  
                     102 Toledo (Ohio) Blade, June 10, 1964.
                  
                     103 About twenty-five strikers had obtained other jobs. Ad Hoc
                            Citizens' Committee minutes, June 11, 1964.
               
                    
                    
                  COVER OF ESSEX PUBLICATION WHICH APPEARED THE DAY AFTER THE STRIKE ENDED
                  
                  Reproduced from 102 Crucial Days; Biography of a Strike that Challenged the Free
                            Enterprise System (Fort Wayne, 1964).
               
                    
                    
                        The right to freely manage the plant.
                        The right to establish speeds of operations and work loads.
                        The right to determine manning of equipment.
                        The right to transfer employees freely from job to job when necessary.
                        The right to require employees to work overtime when necessary.
                        The right to give seniority a secondary role when qualifications and work experience were
                            essential.
                        The right to align departments and individuals in the interests of efficiency.104
                  
                    
            
            Although Essex may have regarded these rights as "a necessary ingredient of free
                    enterprise," its application of those rights showed little regard for the consequences.
                    Rather the booklet, whose subtitle was Biography of the Strike that Challenged the Free
                        Enterprise System, summarized the mood of intransigence and insensitivity that had
                    characterized much of Essex' attitude and conduct throughout the strike. The advertisement
                    for nonstrikers, the importation of black workers for the first time in the seven years Essex
                    operated its Hillsdale plant, the publication of "The Shame of
                    Hillsdale" in the local newspaper, and particularly the bringing in of the armed guards
                    attested more to a do or die attitude than a desire to negotiate the end of the strike. Furthermore,
                    Essex' announced reason for coming to Hillsdale in 1957—the opportunity to pay
                    lower wages—may have been good business from the company's point of view, but it
                    was bad community relations. Hillsdale was economically depressed, and the effect of the
                    company's action was to create a condition of frustration, instability, and crisis.105
            
            It took two to make a quarrel, however; and the IUE did little to stabilize the situation. The
                    continuous bickering between the local union and the two internationals that had represented it
                    prior to the IUE had led to a six month delay in negotiating a new contract in 1963, making it that
                    much more difficult for the IUE to settle things peacefully. The union also had to bear much of the
                    responsibility for violence on the picket line, for it was too easy to rationalize the fights,
                    overturned cars, beatings, and property damage simply as a struggle against company injustice. By
                    such reasoning anything was permissible. This is not to minimize or derogate the depth of passion on
                    a picket line. The late United Auto Workers president, Walter Reuther, who had considerable
                    experience with violence in labor disputes, observed once that "picket lines are formed in
                    the real world where real people have real problems," and the fact of the strike at
                    Hillsdale was that nonstrikers were crossing the lines to take union members' jobs under
                    company assurances that they would be retained. Still Reuther 
                  
                     104 102 Crucial Days, 25.
                  
                     105 Michael Harrington, The Other America (New York,
                            1962), 32.
               
                     admitted that within his own union there had not been enough
                    "affirmative leadership" to control either the group violence or the action of an
                    individual union member who tried to redress grievances with a club.106 Such was
                    the case at Hillsdale as well.
            The strike might not have been violent had the city been able to function effectively. But a
                    combination of paralyzing factors had removed it from the scene and created an imbalance of power in
                    the company's favor. There was a surplus labor pool from which Essex could hire nonstriking
                    workers, and the state law forbade any interference with them. The economic recession of the area
                    made the city hesitant to exercise any pressure on the company until community residents like the Lo
                    Presto brothers began to take matters into their own hands. The company, in the name of protecting
                    property rights, was able to hire armed guards legally, but they were as much of an economic weapon
                    against the union as they were a protection of real estate. The union, unable to utilize the law as
                    an economic weapon, fell back on illegal methods of coercion which only compounded the matter.
            There may have been another factor to the configuration of violence at Hillsdale; perhaps the strike
                    was a focus of despair and frustration for a significant portion of the people who found themselves
                    on the short end of the socio-economic scale. The large numbers of onlookers at the plant, the mobs
                    at the jail, the involvement of the townspeople, when combined with the expressions of pessimism to
                    the industrial commission and the statistics of economic deprivation in the county, at least raise
                    the question whether the strike symbolized a social upheaval. There was no empirical data to support
                    such a thought, yet the Ad Hoc Citizens' Committee on Industrial Relations which looked
                    into the strike kept hearing this from different quarters.
            What of the future? There were indications of efforts to create a better climate in Hillsdale amongst
                    the company, the IUE, and the community. Several groups expressed hope that an industrial or human
                    relations committee might arise which could provide a hospitable atmosphere for the discussion of
                    problems affecting the community. The home office of Essex, in an apparent gesture of good will,
                    donated $10,000 to the local hospital. Various local union and management leaders with
                    the cooperation of Hillsdale College and some public officials helped to set up an industrial
                    relations seminar at the college, the intent of which was to provide information on the development
                    of company-labor relations over the years and on the role of public and private mediation agencies
                    in promoting those relations.
            These may have been small steps, but they were first ones. When 
                  
                     106 U.S., Senate, Hearings Before the Select Committee in
                                the Labor or Management Field, 85 Cong., 2 Sess. (1958), part 25, p. 10006.
               
                     Governor Romney ordered the National Guard into Hillsdale, he
                    wrote: "I plead with the people of Hillsdale County, the people of Michigan, and especially
                    the principals involved on both sides of the Essex-IUE dispute to work in good faith to restore the
                    confidence of the public in the collective bargaining process which has helped our nation progress,
                    and to restore peace and harmony to a troubled community."107 Between
                    the governor's hopes and their fulfillment, much remained to be done.
            
               
                  107 Quoted in Howlett, "The Battle of Hillsdale,"
                    786.
            
         
         
         
            Lambdin P. Milligan's Appeal for State's Rights and Constitutional Liberty
                    during the Civil War
            
                    Edited by Darwin Kelley
                    ∗
                
            On the night of October 5-6, 1864, during the Civil War, Lambdin P. Milligan was arrested at his home
                    in Huntington, Indiana, by United States military authorities. Approximately two weeks later
                    Milligan and four other Indiana citizens were brought to trial in Indianapolis before a military
                    commission composed of twelve army officers. Charges against the five men included conspiracy
                    against the United States government, affording aid and comfort to rebels against the authority of
                    the United States, and inciting insurrection. In December, 1864, the commission found all five
                    defendants guilty and sentenced three of them—including Milligan—to hang,
                    another to imprisonment at hard labor for the duration of the war. The fifth man was released after
                    he turned states evidence.1
            
            Throughout the trial Major Henry L. Burnett, judge advocate and prosecutor, attempted to prove that
                    Milligan, as a member of a secret, subversive society, had plotted to overthrow the government of
                    the United States and establish a Northwestern Confederacy. Burnett asserted that the Huntington
                    lawyer was a major general in the military branch of the allegedly traitorous Sons of Liberty, had
                    openly sympathized with the southern rebellion and condemned the Union, and had advocated armed
                    resistance to the draft. As partial proof of his accusations the judge advocate introduced a copy of
                    a speech-as printed in the Cincinnati Gazette—which Milligan, a Peace Democrat, had made
                    on August 13, 1864, at a Democratic mass meeting held in Fort Wayne.2
            
            Since the Gazette had published verbatim only parts of Milligan's speech
                    and had condensed and summarized the rest, counsel for the accused attempted to block use of the
                    abbreviated version on the grounds that it was incompetent evidence. Attorney James L. Coffroth
                        
                  
                     ∗ Dr. Darwin Kelley teaches history at Elmhurst High School
                            in Fort Wayne, Indiana, and is visiting lecturer in political science, Huntington College,
                            Hunting ton, Indiana. Thanks are extended to Professors Bert Anson and Donald F. Carmony for
                            their suggestions during the preparation of this article. Especial thanks are given to Lorna
                            Lutes Sylvester for her help in the editing process.
                  
                     1 Kenneth M. Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil
                                War (Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XXXI; Indianapolis, 1949), 249, 253, 262;
                            Gilbert R. Tredway, "Indiana against the Administration, 1861-1865" (Ph.D.
                            dissertation, Department of History, Indiana University, 1962), 292, 301-303. Tredway bases
                            his account of the treason trials on the original longhand copies of the shorthand
                            transcript of the trials located in the National Archives. The only published version of the
                            trials is the highly selective and biased Benn Pitman (ed.), The Trials for
                                Treason at Indianapolis, Disclosing the Plans for Establishing a North-Western
                                Confederacy … (Cincinnati, 1865), 73-77. Tried with Milligan were
                            Stephen Horsey, William Bowles, Andrew Humphreys, and Horace Heffren.
                  
                     2 Pitman, Trials for Treason, 88-89, 120-22, 150-57,
                            and passim.
                  
               
                     argued that "the omissions might give a different
                    construction to what was said …."2 The military commission,
                    however, disallowed Coffroth's reasoning and permitted Burnett to question the Gazette
                    reporter concerning his remembrance of the speech and the article. According to the newspaperman,
                    Milligan had denied that the war was right or that the President had the power to coerce a state,
                    had asserted "that the war itself was disunion, and that the Union could not be restored by
                    war," had declared that the war had made the government a despotism, and had called
                    President Abraham Lincoln a tyrant and an usurper. The reporter admitted, however, that Milligan had
                    stated: "if the war was right, the draft was right, and if they considered the war right,
                    and were good citizens, they would not grumble about the draft."4
            
            The somewhat questionable legality of introducing the Gazette's version of
                    Milligan's speech and the rather flimsy evidence against the lawyer contained therein were
                    but samples of the antics performed by the military commission and the judge advocate during the
                    trials. As one historian has aptly described the proceedings: "The scene which …
                    ensued resembled opèra bouffe far more than a trial for
                        treason."5 Another scholar has suggested that the treason trials
                    were "intended to grind grist for the political campaign preceding the presidential
                    election of November 7."6 Undeniably Milligan's arrest and
                    trial resulted from the political situation in Indiana during the Civil War. Both Democrats and
                    Republicans practiced bitterly partisan politics throughout the war period. The Democracy raged
                    against a Republican administration which allowed arbitrary arrests, suspended the writ of habeas
                    corpus, imposed military rule, and passed economic measures which Democrats considered heretical and
                    designed to injure the Northwest. The party inveighed furiously against the President's
                    Emancipation Proclamation and called for a peace convention to end a war which many thought could
                    not be won anyway. Republicans countered by claiming that all Democrats were members of secret
                    treasonable societies, the purpose of which was to overthrow the national and state governments or
                    secede from the Union.7 In Republican terminology Copperhead, butternut,
                    traitor, and Democrat were all synonymous. One writer accurately summarized the situation 
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., 150-51.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., 152.
                  
                     5 Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War,
                            248.
                  
                     6 Frank L. Klement, The Copperheads in the Middle West (Chicago,
                            1960), 198.
                  
                     7 For discussions of the political situation in Indiana during the
                            Civil War see Emma Lou Thornbrough, Indiana in the Civil War Era,
                            1850-1880 (Indianapolis, 1965); Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil
                                War; Lorna Lutes Sylvester, "Oliver P. Morton and Hoosier Politics during
                            the Civil War" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, Indiana University,
                            1968).
               
                     when he wrote: "Intellectual tolerance was not the
                    order of the day."8
            
            Of Milligan himself, another author has commented: "It seems clear that when the time came
                    for a squaring of accounts between Milligan and the administration, his open and brazen espousal of
                    a political philosophy regarded as dangerously subversive counted more heavily against him than his
                    real or imaginary participation in conspiracies against the government."9 The Huntington lawyer was a strict agrarian, a western sectionalist, and a Jeffersonian
                    Democrat who wanted to stay the course of the Industrial Revolution in America. He was a caustic
                    antagonist of eastern manufacturing interests and constantly referred to the "pecuniary
                    vassalage" to which the cotton nabobs of New England and the iron mongers of Pennsylvania
                    were subjecting the Northwest.10 Milligan combined his antipathy for commerce
                    and business with his disapproval of the war. He had been a "strong advocate of compromise
                    and an opponent of coercion" before the conflict began, and unlike many of his fellow
                    Democrats he did not become a supporter of a war for the Union when fighting became inevitable.11 In August, 1861, at a Huntington County Democratic convention he had
                    described the war as "illegally brought on by an usurper, for the furtherance of the ends
                    of a foul, fanatical abolition party."12 Milligan frequently maintained
                    that the South had been driven to secession and insisted that the war had been started only to
                    further the interests of the New England manufacturers.13 In regard to the
                    Constitution the Huntington lawyer was the "strictest of strict
                        constructionists"14 and was bitterly critical of what he considered
                    the Lincoln administration's attempts to subvert the law of the land. Milligan's
                    speeches indicate that he thought the Republican party was attempting to retain power by illegal
                    means, and he constantly complained of "Federal misrule, usurpation, lawlessness, and
                        crime."15 Several months after the Civil War began, the Democratic
                    Indianapolis 
                  
                     8 Kenneth M. Stampp, "The Impact of the Civil War upon
                            Hoosier Society," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXVIII (March, 1942), 13.
                  
                     9 Tredway, "Indiana against the Administration,"
                            232. There are few complete accounts of Milligan's life and career. Tredway bases
                            his conclusions about the Huntington lawyer on numerous speeches which the Peace Democrat
                            made, obituaries, newspaper accounts, letters, and such published works as John A. Marshall,
                            An American Bastile (Philadelphia, 1879), and Florence L. Grayston, "Lambdin P.
                            Milligan-A Knight of the Golden Circle," Indiana Magazine of History, XLIII
                            (December, 1947), 379-91.
                  
                     10 Tredway, "Indiana against the Administration,"
                            226-30; Klement, Copper heads in the Middle West, 108, 116; Thornbrough,
                                Indiana in the Civil War Era, 216.
                  
                     11 Tredway, "Indiana against the Administration,"
                            227.
                  
                     12 Huntington Democrat, August 15, 1861, quoted ibid.
                  
                     13 Tredway, "Indiana against the Administration,"
                            228; Klement, Copperheads in the Middle West, 108; Indianapolis Daily State Sentinel, July
                            8, 1864.
                  
                     14 Tredway, "Indiana against the Administration,"
                            232.
                  
                     15 Indianapolis Daily State Sentinel, July 8, 1864,
                            quoted ibid., 227.
               
                    
                    Daily State Sentinel reported that, in one speech, "Milligan thoroughly
                    dissected and exposed the corruptions, incompetency and utter imbecility of King Lincoln's
                    Administration, concluding with an eloquent appeal in favor of maintaining the Union by peaceable
                    and amicable adjustment."16
            
            The Huntington Democrat's vociferous expression of such views and his participation in
                    Democratic party politics brought him to the attention of Indiana Republicans early in the war.
                    Milligan served as chairman of the Huntington County Democratic Central Committee during 1861 and
                    1862 and was apparently one of the most popular speakers in his area.17 In
                    August, 1861, William R. Holloway, Governor Oliver P. Morton's secretary, wrote to District
                    Attorney John Hanna: "Enclosed please find some extracts from the Huntington Herald. He
                    [Milligan] should be arrested at once. Please give this your personal and immediate
                    attention." Included with the letter were articles about speeches which Milligan had
                    delivered earlier in the year.18 Although Milligan evidently hoped to be chosen
                    as the congressional nominee from his district in 1862 and was a candidate for the gubernatorial
                    nomination in 1864, his extreme peace views and often inexpedient statements were unacceptable to
                    the majority of Indiana Democrats.19 It has been said that some Republicans
                    considered the Huntington lawyer more help to them than to his own party "on account of his
                    constant habit of declaring his most ultra sentiments in the most obnoxious form."20 In June, 1864, General Henry B. Car-rington, commander of the District of
                    Indiana, named Milligan as one of four major generals in the Sons of Liberty and in August labeled
                    him as one of the "leading men of the secret order, who are urging resistance to the
                        Government…."21 About three months later came
                    Milligan's arrest.
            The lawyer's actual connection with the secret societies in Indiana was at least completely
                    misunderstood. In 1862 he denounced all secret organizations as contrary to the principles of the
                    Democratic party and detrimental to its success. Yet he attended meetings of the Huntington lodge of
                    the Order of American Knights "off and on" 
                  
                     16 Indianapolis Daily State Sentinel. September 21,
                            1861.
                  
                     17 Tredway, "Indiana against the Administration,"
                            226.
                  
                     18 William R. Holloway to John Hanna, August 15, 1862, John Hanna
                            Papers (Lilly Library, Indiana University, Bloomington).
                  
                     19 Tredway, "Indiana against the Administration,"
                            226.
                  
                     20 Quoted ibid., 225.
                  
                     21 Henry B. Carrington to Captain C. H. Potter, assistant adjutant
                            general, June 6, 1864, U. S., War Department, The War of the Rebellion: A
                                Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies (128 vols.,
                            Washington, 1880-1901), Ser. 2, Vol. VII, p. 341; Carrington to Potter, August 16, 1864,
                            ibid., Ser. 1. Vol. XXXIX, Part 2, pp. 259-60. In August, 1864, Carrington was replaced as
                            district commander by General Alvin P. Hovey. Stampp, Indiana Politics during
                                the Civil War. 247.
               
                     throughout 1863 and 1864, and fairly substantial testimony
                    indicates that he was influential in the local lodge although professedly not a member in 1864.
                    Milligan did not help to extend the secret order, however, since he reputedly wanted the Huntington
                    chapter kept small and membership limited to men of prominence and responsibility in order to
                    control the Democratic nominations in the county.22 Apparently Milligan attended
                    only one state meeting of the OAK, that held in Indianapolis in November, 1863. Despite this fact he
                    was supposedly appointed a major general in the state Organization of American Knights in September,
                    1863, and was carried over in that office when the order merged with or became the Sons of Liberty.
                    During the treason trials Judge Advocate Burnett failed to prove conclusively that Milligan was at
                    the time a member of the Sons of Liberty, that he knew of the so-called military wing of that
                    organization and his major generalship therein, or even that the secret society was a traitorous
                    body per se.
               23 Nevertheless, the military commission
                    pronounced the Huntington Democrat guilty of treason.
            Although Coffroth attempted to refute all charges against his client, his major
                    contention—and that of Milligan—centered around the illegality of the military
                    commission itself. At the time of the treason trials, the civil courts in Indiana were open and
                    functioning properly; and Milligan was a civilian, in no way connected with the military. Lawyers
                    for the accused thus argued that the federal military commission had no jurisdiction and that
                    Milligan and his colleagues had the "right to be tried by one of the constitutional courts
                    of their country, and by a jury thereof."24 Their arguments at the time
                    were unavailing.
            Later, due to the cooling of wartime passions and to the intervention of several influential men,
                    Milligan's execution was delayed; still later his sentence was commuted to life
                    imprisonment. Eventually his case was brought before the United States Supreme Court, and its
                    decision—delivered April 3, 1866—is a landmark in American judicial
                        history.25 In Ex parte Milligan, the justices held that
                    the treason trials had been illegal because the civil courts had been open and unobstructed in their
                        function.26
            
            One author has written of Milligan's release from prison and return to his home town:
                    "According to accounts too numerous to disbelieve entirely" the lawyer received
                    "a ‘greater ovation that has ever been accorded to any other man’ in
                    his native Huntington." There 
                  
                     22 Tredway, "Indiana against the Administration,"
                            230-32, 322, 344, and passim.
                  
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., 230-32, 322-28; see also Pitman, Trials for Treason, passim,
                  
                     24 Pitman, Trials for Treason, 199.
                  
                     25 Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War,
                            264.
                  
                     26
                            Ex parte Milligan, 4 Wallace, 2 (1866).
               
                     was a parade, bands, firing of cannon, and a speech by the
                    lawyer himself deying that he had ever injured his country or his fellow citizens.27 Two years after his release from prison Milligan filed suit for false arrest and
                    imprisonment against Morton, members of the commission, and others associated with the treason
                    trials. In this instance a federal court found for Milligan, awarded him damages of
                    $5.00, and ordered the defendants to pay court costs. The Huntington lawyer, however, was
                    never tried in the civil courts on charges of treason or conspiracy.28 When
                    Milligan died in December, 1899, the Republican Huntington Herald—often a bitter critic
                    of the lawyer and his party—stated: "he was a good citizen, a kind neighbor, and
                    an honorable and upright business man. He was an able and conscientious lawyer, and his record at
                    the Huntington bar was of great credit. He did much for Huntington and Huntington County, and the
                    community sorrows at the death of a man whose heart was devoted to its interests."29
            
            On September 1, 1864, the Huntington Democrat printed a complete text of the speech
                    which Milligan had delivered at Fort Wayne on August 13, 1864. This speech is reproduced in its
                    entirety below. According to the Democrat's editor, the Cincinnati
                    Gazette had published only a synopsis of the address and had made "unfair"
                    comments about it. A correct version of the speech, said the Democrat, would prove
                    it "sound throughout, and a powerful effort in behalf of the maintenance of the Union as
                    the men of the Revolution framed it …." In the introduction and conclusion to
                    his address Milligan was vitriolically denunciatory of the Republican administration and of the war,
                    which he described as a "great disease of the blood" and a "cardinal wrong." In most of the speech, however, the lawyer outlined his
                    constitutional objections to the conflict, and his arguments proved him an adroit legalist. But
                    however logical Milligan's reasoning, his contentions that secession was an accepted right
                    of a sovereign people, that the federal government had no constitutional authority to force a state
                    to remain in the Union, and that the war should be ended immediately by any means whatever-including
                    recognition of the Confederacy—could only anger the majority of mid-Westerners, whose
                    nationalism at least equaled their sectional prejudices. On the subject of resisting the draft the
                    lawyer stated that he had "no advice to give," but his description of the poverty,
                    want, debasement of race, and loss of liberties consequent to participation in the war was perhaps a
                    tacit admission that he himself would resist conscription. Milligan also exhorted his listeners to
                    defy the usurpations 
                  
                     27 Tredway, "Indiana against the Administration,"
                            372.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., 379-87.
                  
                     29 Huntington Herald, December 22, 1899.
               
                     of the federal and state governments, "not by secret
                    organization, but conscious of a rectitude of purpose … boldly and in open daylight
                    …." His concluding admonitions were: "Organize and arm yourselves with
                    pikes and scythes; with long guns, with short guns, arm yourselves as best you can. Some must need
                    perish in the conflict, but I for one would rather be snuffed out in a blaze of glorious struggle
                    for right, than flicker a little longer with the scintillations of expiring liberty." The
                    lawyer's words-even within the context of his speech-sounded to Republicans and War
                    Democrats like revolution against the national government.
            Although the lawyer's Fort Wayne speech contained much which Republicans and many Democrats
                    found objectionable, the reporter from the Cincinnati Gazette admitted that there was
                    "nothing more offensive in Mr. Milligan's speech than … in the average
                    of Democratic speeches delivered during the … campaign."30
                    The address was typical of Milligan's invective and inflammatory language and of most of
                    the other speeches he presented during the war years. But when considering whether or not it helped
                    to prove the Huntington lawyer a traitor, readers must remember that the Gazette reporter also
                    stated: "He [Milligan] said nothing denunciatory of the Constitution, but the whole tenor
                    of his speech was in favor of the Constitution as he construed it."31
            
            Citizens of the United States have never satisfactorily resolved the question of what constitutes
                    legitimate opposition during wartime. Nor have scholars finally settled Milligan's place in
                    Civil War history: he remains variously a traitor and an apostle of constitutional liberty.
            
               
                  30 Pitman, Trials for Treason, 156.
               
                  31
                        Ibid., 155.
            
            
            
               LAMBDIN P. MILLIGAR
               
               Reproduced from John A. Marshall, American Bastile: A History of the illegal Arrests and
                        Imprisonment of American Citizens during the Late Civil War (Philadelphia, 1884). 71.
            
            
            Speech of Col. L. P. Milligan, At the Ft. Wayne Mass Meeting on the 13th of August,
                        1864.1
            
            [Through the kindness of Col. Milligan we are enabled to lay before the public a correct report of
                    his able speech delivered at the Ft. Wayne Mass Meeting, August 13, 1864. A few days after its
                    delivery the Cincinnati Gazette published a synopsis of the address, omitting entirely the argument.
                    This was unfair, in view of its statement that the speaker drew ‘logical conclusions from
                    false premises.’ The ‘premises’ are contained in the annexed
                    report. Now if it shall appear that the ‘premises’ are sound, and he who is
                    conversant with the history of this government will find them to be so, then upon Republican
                    testimony, the address is sound throughout, and a powerful effort in behalf of the maintenance of
                    the Union as the men of the Revolution framed it, convicting those who wage the present war, of
                    perfidy to the government and the people. No one will fail to peruse it with the closest
                    attention.—ED Democrat.]
            You, perhaps, expect me to arraign the Administration for its frauds, its corruption, usurpations,
                    suppression of the great writ of liberty; the suppression of the liberty of speech and the
                    press—these and a thousand other wrongs with which the land is filled and with which a
                    million of hearts have been made to bleed,—wrongs, oppressions, cruelties with which the
                    pages of history will ever blush, and the thousands of wrongs that no book will ever record, but
                    must forever sleep with the bosom overcome with their pangs. But I will not. I will leave their
                    recital to those who delight to dwell upon the surface. They are but mere incidents to the great
                    cardinal wrong, "The war." They are the legitimate attendants, and inseparably
                    connected with war, as an institution. War is the disease. These are but mere blotches and pimples,
                    eruptions upon the skin resulting from the great disease in the blood, the war, and can never be
                    cured by mere titilation.—As well might you undertake to heal by scratching alone that
                    loathsome disease to which common schools are so much exposed, as 
                  
                     1 The following document has been transcribed from a photostatic copy
                            of the Huntington Democrat. September 1, 1864. Every effort has been made to reproduce the
                            speech exactly as the newspaper published it; therefore, inconsistencies and mistakes in
                            punctuation, capitalization, and spelling have been maintained and have not been indicated
                            by a [sic]. In cases where it has been impossible to ascertain which mark
                            of punctuation has been used, whether or not there are spaces between words, and whether or
                            not the newspaper editor meant to hyphenate words, modern usage has prevailed. First names
                            of individuals and letters apparently omitted by the printer have been added in brackets.
                            The introductory comments by the editor of the Democrat, however, were
                            bracketed in the original. Obvious repetitions have been omitted. Acknowledgment is made to
                            Ned M. Simons, Huntington County recorder, for cooperation in securing this speech.
               
                     undertake to remedy our present evils by irritating the wounds
                    they have produced. The evil itself must be met with proper remedies land peace is the only
                    antidote. Peace is this day the aspiration of every Christian heart in the land. But you inquire how
                    are we to get peace? The answer is cease warring and you have it. But again you inquire upon what
                    conditions will we stop? What will be the terms of peace? I answer the best we can make with a
                    people who are now and always have been anxious for peace. But if you can do no better, give the
                    country peace if it be on the only terms ever proposed by the Confederate Government: recognize
                    their independence. Staunch the blood and stay the murderous hand of War, and let our gallant sons
                    and brothers come home to their families and friends; to their work shops and fields, and let peace,
                    order and civilization bless your whole land instead of hecatombs and priests of Moloch.2 Let us in humble reverence for the Author follow the councel of Him at whose
                    birth a multitude of the heavenly host appeared praising God, and saying on earth peace and good
                    will toward men. Let us my fellow Democrats from this day forward so work, so pray, that we may ever
                    merit the most exalted title ever promised to man by the blessed Saviour of the world. Let us so
                    conduct ourselves that God will recognize us as his children. Then conscious of the favor and smiles
                    of Heaven, the epithets of Butternut and Copperhead will be associated with the cherished memory of
                    deeds approved of God, guaranteeing us a home in his blessed family, when, as peace makers, we will
                    be called the children of God. I seldom theorize, but when I have, it has not been at mass meetings
                    when the bustle incident to a great gathering, conflicts with that close attention and reflection
                    necessary to enable an audience to comprehend the logical connection of system. But this is a
                    peculiar time, and to my mind seems to justify the course, and more especially so because your
                    people have been so copiously treated to false theories, and because if we are right we should be
                    able to give a reason for the faith within. Never was there a truer saying uttered, than
                    "thrice armed is he who hath his quarrel just." Not only must his cause be right,
                    but he must know and feel it to be so, and should realize its truth with convictions ever present,
                    and strong as the instinct of life itself.
            It will be expected that I will say something on the subject of the draft; and I intend to do it. But
                    that others shall not be required to furnish motives for my saying what I am about to say, you will
                    allow me to offer my own reasons therefore [sic]. I take it as a premise that if this war is right,
                    or necessary, that the draft is proper; that 
                  
                     2 Moloch was a Semitic deity whose worship was accompanied by human
                            sacrifice.
               
                     the burthens of the Government should be borne by all, and not
                    left to the volition of the citizen whether he will bear those burthens or not; as well might you
                    raise the revenues of the country by voluntary subscription and leave the matter to men's
                    generosity liberality, and convictions of public duty, instead of resorting to compulsory systems of
                    taxation.
            Then the main question in this point of view as well as all others is: Is the war right? But Mr.
                    [Stephen A.] Douglas has said, "He who, when his country is at war, stops to inquire
                    whether she is right or wrong, is a traitor."3 And others have said so
                    before him; but I spurn it as the language of a courtier, and only fit to be made by hireling
                    flatterers of power and is the vulgar acceptation of the phrase that "the King
                        can do no wrong." The uniform American doctrine, both in theory and practice, has
                    been that all aggressive wars are wrong; but without stopping to consider any particular theory, the
                    abstract question of whether the war is right or wrong is before us, and as Christians and men we
                    are bound to decide for ourselves, because the people are the Government who are responsible for the
                    decision and should make our agents respect and carry out our will. Three years ago, when I was
                    denouncing this war as wrong in theory and unholy in purpose, even democrats said I was radical and
                    an extremist. I then said the purpose of the Administration was to destroy the Democratic element in
                    the country; revolutionize our Government; rub out State lines and establish one grand consolidated
                    despotism— grand in extent of territory—grand in the powers of government, and
                    equally grand in the poverty and misery of its subjects, for they would no longer be citizens. For
                    this declaration see the Bluffton papers for May or June, 1861. Many democrats denounced me and done
                    all they could to further the war cause, but where is the democrat that now denies the truth of
                    these remarks I then made? And the Niagara development4 has at last satisfied
                    many who never before had their eyes open to the purpose of the Administration in the continuance of
                    this war. Let us recur to the question in all seriousness 
                  
                     3 It is unknown whether or not these were Douglas' exact
                            words. For indications that Milligan did accurately summarize Douglas' position see
                            Frank E. Stevens, Life of Steven A. Douglas (Springfield, 1928), 628-33.
                  
                     4 In 1864 Horace Greeley of the New York Tribune
                            urged Lincoln to meet with Confederate commissioners at Niagara Falls, Canada, to discuss
                            peace proposals. The President made it clear to Greeley and the American people that peace
                            would be considered only on the basis of "the integrity of the whole Union, and the
                            abandonment of slavery …." No meeting was held, and Copperheads and
                            Peace Democrats considered this ample evidence that the Republican administration did not
                            intend to end the war. It was later learned that the Confederate agents were not authorized
                            to discuss peace but to create trouble for the northern government. Roy P. Basler (ed.), The Collected Works of Abraham Lincoln (9 vols., New Brunswick, N. J.,
                            1953), VII, 451. For a discussion of the Niagara Conference see James G. Randall and Richard
                            N. Current, Lincoln the President: Last Full Measure (New York, 1955), 158-65.
               
                     what are we fighting for? To restore the Union? He who believes
                    it is incapable of inferring motives from conduct; and if such were the motives and purposes of the
                    administration still they are fruitless and unjust. Fruitless because no disinterested man familiar
                    with the history of our race ever supposed the Union could be restored by war measures; Now let us
                    inquire into the justice of the proposition:
            And this leads us to examine that suicidal doctrine that Statesmen have ever treated as a folly, mad
                    with absurdity, and now sought to be engrafted upon the Democratic creed by that portion of the
                    party who were schooled in the ritual of Federalism, but who, by the various convulsions in their
                    party, developing fraud and ruin, have been driven to us without a conversion to our principles or
                    an understanding of our theory. They are mostly honest men and sufficiently drilled in the dogmas of
                    Federalism. Dogmas, I may say, upon which no permanent government can ever be administered, because
                    they run directly into centralization and consequent despotism. And while, I say, we are willing to
                    accept them as allies against this corrupt and revolutionary administration, we are unwilling that
                    they shall be permitted to interpolate our creed, corrupt our traditions, and desecrate our liturgy.
                    I mean by this suicidal doctrine "a Constitutional war for the restoration of
                        the Union." This idea of a constitutional war for the restoration of the Union,
                    can alone be indulged in upon the theory that our Government is a National one and not a
                    Confederation of Sovereign States-in other words, a consolidated Government, without limitation to
                    the powers possessed, which, call it what you may, is an arbitrary Government, in which all laws,
                    however sanctified by the memories of the sacred names and gallant deeds by which their
                    acknowledgement has been, in the history of our progressive race, wrung from unwilling tyrants, The
                    modern advocate of this doctrine, with a stubbornness and impudence of assumption scarcely to be
                    found elsewhere, insist that the constitution of the United States is a reflex of the will of the
                    aggregate mass of the people of all the States, acting as one people instead of the people of
                    several distinct sovereignties, each acting for itself as a people, and one of the treaty making
                    parties, and all the others, so far as the first is concerned, as the other treaty-making party to
                    the compact or constitution. Neither the constitution, nor the history of the convention that
                    proposed it, offered any evidence in support of such a position, much less do the antecedents of
                    these States, from their first Provincial proprietary or chartered existence, warrant any such
                    assumption. What were their relations? Were the people of the several colonies one people before the
                    Declaration of Independence; or, did they by that act become one people; or, did they by the
                    articles of Confederation become one people; or, finally, did they by the adoption of the
                    Constitution  become one people? Now, the answer to these, in
                    their turn, must settle the vexed question. What relation was there between Lord Baltimore and
                    William Penn, or the citizens of their respective proprietary governments? They differed in their
                    religion and manners, and each sought a home in the new world that they might be free from the
                    contact and customs of the others in the old world. What unity of feeling, religion, or civilization
                    between followers of Penn, and the Puritans of the Plymouth Rock Settlement? The only relation I can
                    now recollect was, that the Puritans claimed the right, and exercised it, of hanging people who
                    professed the religion of Pennsylvania. What relations existed between the charter government of
                    Rhode Island, her people, and the people of Massachusetts? This, and only this; Roger Williams had
                    fled from the tyranny of Massachusetts, abjured its jurisdiction and procured a charter from the
                    crown of England to secure him against the power of Massachusetts, that he and his followers might
                    be a free, independent and different people, in manners and religion, from those whose oppression
                    had driven him into the wilderness. It is useless to pursue this further. The only legal relation
                    existing between the people of the several colonies, was that they were all dependencies of Great
                    Britain, and neither the contiguity of territory, similarity of language, religion or civilization
                    made them one people any more than are the people of Canada or Australia one people. Then I say, the
                    only relation existing, or recognized by law was one growing out of their dependence upon the
                    British Crown, and when that was dissolved, the relation ceased. For the proof of this let us
                    consult history.
            The status of nations, in some measure at least is, moulded by the consideration and recognition of
                    their surrounding cotemporaries.5 Then let us consult those cotemporaries as to
                    the light in which the several States were received by other nations—whether as one
                    people composing one nation; or as several nations united against one common enemy. History
                    furnishes not one instance in which any contemporary recognized, or in any manner treated them, or
                    with them as one nation. But with nations as with individuals, common politeness requires that we
                    should respect their claims to title in matters of perfect indifference to us. Well, what was the
                    claim set up by the colonies at the time of the Declaration of Independence. How did they style
                    themselves? Was the thirteen used as numerals to denote the number of States which
                    were assembled in the convention which made the Declaration or was it used as a mere praenomen to
                    designate a particular nation? To answer that query examine the style of the 
                  
                     5 This is a form, not often used, of contemporary. Cotemporary has the
                            connotation of those with united or conjoint interests. Whether Milligan's use of
                            the word was deliberate or a typographical error is unknown.
               
                     resolves of that Congress. Prior to the representation of
                    Georgia in that Congress, all their resolves are entitled the twelve united colonies or States; but
                    after Georgia was represented they always styled themselves the thirteen united colonies. But not
                    only so, but their delegates were appointed in different modes, and with various powers to act. Then
                    in the final resolve what did they say? That the several colonies were, and of right ought to be,
                    one free and independent State? No! they declared that they are, and of right ought to be, free and
                    independent States, &c., and as free and independent States they, using the plural pronoun,
                    clearly conveying the idea that each State, in its individual Statehood maintained its
                    individuality. As we have said, the status of a nation is usually understood by its cotemporaries.
                    Let us look to the evidence of this fact; The first and truly memorable instance to which we invite
                    the attention of the Democracy is the treaty between France and the United States, Nor can we for a
                    moment suppose that France would treat with us in any other character than the true one, save only
                    the claim of Great Britain, which was then in dispute. But except the claim of Great Britain, there
                    was no dispute about the status of the several States composing the United States, Now this was only
                    two years after the thirteen States had assumed among the powers of the earth, the seperate and equal station to which the laws of nature and nature's God entitle
                    them. France treats with them by their separate names, each as one of the contracting parties, and
                    recognizing them each as a free and independent State. Four years after this treaty, the Netherlands
                    do the same thing naming and treating with each State as a free and independent State, according to
                    each all the attributes of sovereignty. And seven years after this great declaration of Liberty and
                    human rights, Great Britain herself acknoweledged their several independence—not as a
                    unit—not as one people; but as New Hampshire, Massachusetts Bay, Rhode Island, Providence
                    Plantations, Connecticut, New York, New Jersey, Delaware, Maryland, Virginia, North Carolina, South
                    Carolina and Georgia to be free and independent States, and not that the whole constituted one free
                    and independent State. But if there were still doubts about the character of the parties to the
                    constitution, and its obligation upon those parties, the history of the times, the great American
                    Mugna Charta, the Declaration of Independence, the Articles of Confederation, the correspondence of
                    eminent Statesmen upon the circumstances that in their judgment demanded a constitution, the various
                    calls for a convention, the instructions of the delegates appointed to said convention, the debates
                    in the convention that framed the constitution, the several acts of accession, by which it was
                    accepted and adopted by the several States with the conditions and limitations therein set forth and
                    insisted upon, and the construction given  to the constitution
                    by the people of the American States in the memorable contest of 1800, which has been respected and
                    adhered to by every Federal Administration during sixty years of prosperity, happiness and good
                    government, are sufficient to overcome the most stubborn of the adherents of a doctrine so
                    anti-American. The very theory from which our government envolved, as expressed in the Declaration
                    of Independence, concludes the question of the constitutionality of the Federal Government making
                    war upon a sovereign State for not continuing to be a member of the Union and Government which had
                    ceased to secure the ends for which it was framed, ‘to secure the inalienable rights of
                    man governments are instituted, deriving their just powers from the consent of the governed, and
                    that whenever any form of government becomes destructive of these ends it is the right of the people
                    to alter or abolish it, and to institute a new government, laying its foundations on such
                    principles, and organizing its powers in such form as to them shall seem most likely to affect their
                    safety and happiness,’ This common sense idea, of governments deriving their just powers
                    from the consent of the governed, was by no means original with Mr. [Thomas] Jefferson, but was the
                    theory of an intelligent and virtuous ancestry for a thousand years before, both in England and
                    France, and was the growing sentiment of the English people when the ornate pen of Sir William
                    Blackstone, which has served to captivate so many young minds on both sides of the Atlantic, was
                    retained by the British Crown to inculcate another theory more palatable to the regal
                    appetite,—the Court doctrine that Kings rule by Divine right, and that whatever liberties
                    the people have they derive solely from the King not by right, but by grace; and to assert and
                    maintain the opposite of this doctrine was the policy of the Declaration of Independence; not merely
                    absolving the colonies from their allegiance to the King; but saying to the world that any other
                    people may of right do the same when their government, irrespective of the form, has ceased to
                    secure the ends for which it was formed—they of necessity being the judge of the facts,
                    In this consists the idea of ‘popular sovereignty’ as
                    distinguished from sovereignty in the machinery of governments; because if the government is
                    sovereign (and I mean in this instance by the government, the agent, be he monarch or be they
                    elective representatives who are called upon by any of the forms recognized by the civilized world
                    to express, and enforce the sovreign will in any form is sovereign, it alone can judge of its own
                    necessity because the very idea of sovereignty precludes dictation. Where sovereignty resides there
                    is absolute power uncontrolled save by its own will. Then if it be true that sovereignty is an
                    attribute of the Federal or State government—and where one ends the other
                    begins—as contradistinguished from the people of the 
                    States each, they alone can judge of the necessities of such government; they are the arbiters of
                    there own destinies—then indeed is the doctrine that we have celebrated with eloquence,
                    song, bonfires and jubilation for more than eighty years, a glittering deception, having no meaning
                    in it, But on the contrary, if the doctrines of that hallowed rescript be true, and in which I have
                    ever felt the very instinct of verity, then is sovereignty and government an attribute of the people
                    as people, to be exercised by themselves, or by agents at the option of the people, and no one else;
                    and when our mode of expressing or enforcing that sovereign will becomes inconvenient, ineffectual,
                    or destructive of any of the ends of the good government, it is their right, in whatever manner they
                    see fit, to adopt a different mode of expressing and enforcing such sovereign will
            Call this revolution, call it what you may, it always has been the American doctrine, Federal
                    adjudications to the country6 notwithstanding. But revolution in the common
                    acceptation of the term never was American. I mean to overthrow a government by force, making the
                    right so to do depend upon the power to do it, or where there is power to do it, there is justice in
                    the act "that might makes right." The American doctrine is that government should
                    be founded upon essential truths as to the rights of man and that those truths and
                    rights of man, may exist in a weak and oppressed people who have not the power to assert them.
                    Others may be asserted and enforced by a powerful government having no foundation in ethics. I say
                    it is a slander upon the sages of ‘76 to say that might makes right. If such was the
                    American doctrine why the useless and absurd rigmarole merely set forth to tickle the ear of the
                    lookers on, or what they more politely term declarations made out of a decent respect for the
                    opinions of mankind; now if the opinions of mankind, for whom our fathers had so much respect was,
                    that "might made right." why did they not show their right by
                    glowing pictures of their martial resources? Why not speak of the courage, endurance, and
                    determination of our people; the geographical advantages, and all those elements that could
                    contribute to their success? No! But on the contrary they chose to go before the world basing their
                    claims o[f] freedom and independence upon the abstract question of their natural rights; and such
                    has ever been the American doctrine as expressed in our theory and shown by our sympathies for the
                    oppressed in every struggle between right and power in whatever quarter.
            The people, and they alone, have the right to terminate any and all agencies by them erected to
                    express and enforce their sovereign 
                  
                     6 Milligan may have used the word "country" to mean
                            an independent state, or he or the printer may have meant to write
                            "contrary."
               
                     will, and that too without consulting those agencies upon the
                    subject. But we are told the Constitution is supreme and therefore the people of a State have parted
                    with a portion of their sovereignty. Was it not the free will of the States that made the
                    Constitution, and is it not still their free will? They were not obliged to enter into the contract,
                    but was their wish and interest to do so, and did for their benefit precisely as an individual
                    enters a contract, to do or not to do a particular thing. Is a man, because he makes a contract less
                    a man than the one who never made one; and yet, with both in point of good morals and law, that
                    contract is supreme and must be obeyed.—Does it therefore lessen his manhood when it is
                    made for his benefit and its performance increases his happiness? If such was the case some of our
                    merchants whose daily business is to make and promptly perform contracts would have but little
                    manhood left. Does it lessen Statehood or sovereignty of a State or Nation to enter into a treaty
                    with other Nations? And yet all treaties are supreme so far as law can be supreme over Nations. Nor
                    does the treaty called the Constitution change the character of the parties any more than the joint
                    employment by different parties or Nations of one agent to transact a business of common interest.
                    This we hold to be the theory of our government. This is the plain language of the declaration of
                    76, and I would inquire when, by that declaration, the united colonies became free and independent
                    States and absolved from allegiance to the British Crown, whether they transferred that allegiance,
                    once acknowledged to be due the British Crown, to any other corporation, person or body of men
                    whatever; or whether they did not on the contrary assume and assert that those attributes of
                    sovereignty and government which they had acknowledged to reside in the King belongs to the people
                    of each of these free and independent States, by the people of each State to be exercised in
                    whatever manner to them seemed right and proper.— Having shown this to be the true
                    character of the parties that entered upon the negotiation which resulted in the adoption of the
                    Constitution of the United States, it affords us some light by which we can the better distinguish
                    the true character of that instrument, and the proper mode of construction. The representatives of
                    the parties who met in convention to propose a Constitution, or rather as generally expressed at the
                    time, to amend the article [s] of Confedation, were endowed with very different powers, as the acts
                    of their appointment will show, but none of them had any power to adopt or give force to any such
                    instrument. But when a plan was proposed it was to be submitted to the contracting parties in their
                    sovereign capacity or person for adaption or ratification. As such it stood an open proposition to
                    be accepted as it was, or be modified and accepted or rejected by the contracting parties whom we
                    have seen were the several sovereign  States. It then, in its
                    legal obligation did not differ from any other treaty proposition between nations before
                    ratification, subject to the mutual explanations and constructions of the parties about to ratify,
                    which explanations and constructions, thus put upon it by the parties about to ratify the same,
                    became and are to all intents as much a part of the Constitution as though they were embraced in the
                    body of the instrument. But while in this condition not only did the parties place a construction
                    upon said instrument but others of the parties proposed conditions upon which they would accept and
                    ratify such Constitution, which conditions were accepted by all the other parties by accepting the
                    States thus proposing the conditions to form the Union and ratify the Constitution with the
                    conditions announced. And these conditions are not only binding as well on the parties proposing, as
                    the parties accepting, but the immunities therein reserved inure to the benefit of those accepting
                    as well as those proposing the condition. Now one of these immunities, and I shall only take
                    occasion to refer to one, was the privilege reserved by New York and other States to resume the
                    powers delegated to the Federal Government whenever necessary for the happiness and good government
                    of her people; and by Virginia, the right to resume the power delegated to the Federal Government
                    whenever they became perverted. These conditions became a part of the Constitution by every rational
                    rule of interpretation of treaties or contracts, and their obligations were alike binding upon all,
                    and their privilege inured to the benefit of all. This view of our bond of Union, I am well aware,
                    is not received by all. Power is a beguiling thing, and he who tastes its sweets is tempted to drink
                    deep of the cup, until like the village postmaster of Pennsylvania who in a row exclaimed
                    "he who jostles me shakes the common wealth,"
                    which feeling we see exemplified in almost any one who has had a taste of Federal power. They are
                    almost invariably for the broadest construction of the Constitution in order to increase the powers
                    of the Federal Government to make it more efficient when that efficiency is the very thing our
                    fathers were so jealous of, knowing the tendencies of all Governments to arrogate to themselves
                    constantly increasing powers.
            But having tested this view of our government by the recognized rules of construction, and being
                    satisfied that this is the only correct view of our obligations to, and privilege under, the
                    Constitution I, as one democrat, never did accept or indorse this war, even for the
                        restoration of the Union, the most desirable of all things except civil liberty, which I do
                    prize above all Unions.’ Nor is this the only reason why I 
                  
                     7 This sentence is reminiscent of the famous toast of John C. Calhoun
                            at the Jefferson Day dinner of 1830: "The Union—next to our liberty most
                            dear …." Charles M. Wiltse, John C. Calhoun (3 vols.,
                            Indianapolis, 1944-1951), 11, 71.
               
                     have from the beginning denounced this unhallowed and ruinous
                    war. A reference to the above historical fact would, it seems, to me, be sufficient to satisfy any
                    honest mind that it never was the intention of our fathers that the Federal Government should have
                    the right to coerce, by force of arms, any State or States to remain in the Union. And such has been
                    the accepted notion of the statesmen of all parties up to 1861. But by examination of the debates of
                    the convention which proposed the Constitution, there is no room left for doubt. The best evidence
                    in the world that the convention did not intend to confer any such power on the Federal Government
                    is to be found in the fact that the direct proposition to confer such power on the Government was
                    made by Mr. B. Randolph,8 a delegate from Virginia, and opposed by [James]
                    Madison [Alexander] Hamilton, [John] Jay and others, friends of the Constitution, with the argument
                    that such a proposition was inconsistent with the soverign existence and character of the States,
                    and if embodied in the Constitution would insure its defeat before the States: whereupon it was
                    unanimously voted down. The same proposition was again renewed and again met the same fate In view
                    of these patent facts, I again repeat that I cannot conceive of any warrant in the Constitution for
                    making war upon the Confederate States for doing what they by conditions attached to the
                    Constitution, had expressly reserved the right to do, I say for doing the very thing that by the
                    theory of our Government, and the great American Bill of Rights they had a perfect right to do
                    without its being expressed in any conditions to the Constitution; for doing what they reserved the
                    right to do by affirmatively withholding the power from the Federal Government to compel them to do
                    the contrary, when asked for in Convention. And lastly for doing that which our fathers and theirs
                    had done before, and taught us to celebrate with exaltation, as the proudest act in the history of a
                    noble ancestry. These are among the reasons why I, as a democrat, never accepted the war for the
                    restoration of the Union; and these are some of the reasons why I never could see any sense in
                    classifying Abolition and Secession as "twin heresies." But such a classification
                    may do for those incapable of comprehending a Constitutional proposition not couched in the language
                    and logic of a [John] Marshall, a [James] Kent, or a [Joseph] Story.—But there are other
                    grounds why I have ever, both publicly and privately, opposed this war. Place it even upon the
                    grounds of Mr. [Thaddeus] Stevens of Pennsylvania, the only man on that side of the house in
                    Congress who seemed to have any conception of the question, viz: that the only relation existing
                    between the Federal and Confederate Governments is the relation of war.—And still I am
                        
                  
                     8 B. Randolph should read Edmund Randolph.
               
                     opposed to the war, for I am opposed to any aggressive war, as
                    unwarranted in morals and in its consequence endangering our liberties. This brings me directly to
                    the question of the draft. This is a question that addresses itself to your own
                    convictions of right and duty. If we are to judge the future by the past, what inducements are held
                    out to the soldier? If it is glory, you will look in vain. What victories will you win; what
                    trophies will you boast? Will it be another Bull's Run, a Shiloe, a Fair Oaks, a
                    Fredericksburgh, a Chicamauga, or a Spottsylvania? And are your trophies the treasures of conquered
                    provinces; or will they not rather be poverty, want, debasement of your race and loss of your
                    liberties? And your aspirations that grateful generations will honor your names in song as the
                    heroes whose blood was the ransom for their liberties; or will not generations yet unborn, writhing
                    under the galling yoke of oppression, repeat your names with bitter curses and imprecations for
                    aiding a grim, hungry, relentless tyrant to overthrow the best Government in the world, and enslaved
                    your own race? Upon the question whether you will resist the draft I have no advice to give. You
                    young men who have no families whose homes you are bound to defend, think of the frauds and
                    villainies practiced upon the soldiers by jealous, corrupt and incompetent commanders, and become
                    familiar with it, and be reconciled to offer up your life in such a manner and for such a cause. And
                    you married men who have wives you have sworn to protect, and children you delight to love, think of
                    the want and suffering under which hundreds of thousands of desolate widows, and millions of
                    helpless children, are this day pining. Call your children around; take the little ones on your
                    knees; look your wife in the face; think when that eye becomes dimmed with grief; that cheek
                    blanched and furrowed with want; and that heart grows sad from neglect, look at your little ones
                    when in hunger and want they are spurned from the presence of those who have grown fat upon the
                    bloody altars of this war, and ask your own manly bosom to whom do you owe your life and
                    energy—to that wife and children whom you have sworn upon the altar, to shield against
                    the cold embrace of an uncharitable world, or does your life belong to the grim tyrant who laughs at
                    your calamities and makes jests of your fears? Then consult the emotions that throb in that bosom,
                    then take council of your own broad and manly instincts, and not ask me what to do.
            ORGANIZATION.
            All I have to say on the subject of organizations to resist usurpation can be said in but few words.
                    If there is any one who doubts the purpose of Lincoln and Morton to perpetuate that power their
                    abuse of which so richly merits the execrations of mankind, let him only  read their purpose in the preparations they are making to subjugate the
                    whole people to their ambition.—What are the 30,000 armed Loyal Leagues,9 organized and officered by unscrupulous partizans for? The proposed object is to counteract
                    the efforts of the Sons of Liberty as they style the democrats. Now, what are the objects of the
                    organizations of the Sons of Liberty? According to Morton's own showing, to restore and
                    protect our old Government and Constitution from overthrow by usurpers. Then these thirty thousand
                    armed partizans are organized to overthrow and revolutionize our State by violently continuing him
                    in power against the known consent of a majority of the people. Now I adjure you as you love
                    liberty, order and peace do not permit this. Your liberties once gone, they are gone forever. No
                    nation that had once been free, and surrendered her liberties ever was known to regain them again.
                    Then I exhort you to prepare for the crisis, not by secret organization, but conscious of a
                    rectitude of purpose, go at it boldy and in open daylight, and emblazon it on your banners. Let
                    liberty be your watchword let it resound from every stump in Indiana. "A free election or a
                    free fight." Organize and arm yourselves with pikes and scythes; with long guns, with short
                    guns, arm yourselves as best you can. Some must needs perish in the conflict, but I for one would
                    rather be snuffed out in the blaze of a glorious struggle for right, than flicker
                    a little longer with the scintillations of expiring liberty.
            
               
                  9 Loyal, or Union, Leagues were secret societies formed by the Republicans
                        during the Civil War allegedly to counter the activities of similar Democratic organizations,
                        such as the Sons of Liberty and to defend the country against disloyal northern rebels. Actually
                        they did little more than disseminate Republican propaganda. Kenneth M. Stampp, Indiana Politics during the Civil War (Indiana Historical Collections, vol. XXXI;
                        Indianapolis, 1949), 192.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Taxes and Politics: A Study of Illinois Public Finance. By Glenn W. Fisher.
                    (Urbana: University of Illinois Press, 1969. Pp. viii, 332. Notes, charts, tables, appendices,
                    index. $10.00.)
            This book features an extensive, historical audit of state and local public finance in Illinois from
                    1942 through 1965. The author has prepared a detailed review of expenditure patterns and has
                    identified trends in the major public expenditures. On the revenue side the author discusses the
                    magnitude of the various sources of revenue in general. More specifically he describes the taxes
                    levied by the various taxing units in terms of rate schedules, tax bases, revenue yields, and
                    burdens.
            With a substantial portion of the book devoted to a factual account of public finance in Illinois it
                    might be concluded that this volume is essentially a primer on financing government in that state,
                    It is much more than that. It represents an attempt not only to explain the magnitude and
                    distribution of public expenditures and tax liabilities but also an attempt to allocate the
                    responsibility for the existing pattern of public finance in Illinois.
            To accomplish this objective the author places public finance in Illinois in a political arena. He
                    uses as a setting the fiscal crisis in the state's government in the early 1960s. Within
                    this framework the interaction of the various political and economic factors which shaped the fiscal
                    solution to the crisis are analyzed. This interaction is described in terms of the
                    participants-legislators, government agencies, representatives of special interest groups,
                    professional technicians, and the public at large. The conclusion to the author's account
                    of this fiscal crisis is that the determination of public policy relating to fiscal matters is the
                    result of complex interaction which at many stages violates the economist's assumption of a
                    rational being.
            This book is an objective appraisal of the fiscal aspects of the public sector in Illinois. Using
                    considerations of equity, revenue productivity, and administrative feasibility the author
                    complements his factual presentation with a sophisticated, meaningful interpretation of the
                    expenditure and tax revenue structure. The detailed narrative of the formulation of revenue policy
                    to cope with a fiscal crisis firmly establishes the need for realistic attitudes in public finance
                    since decisions to spend and to tax are essentially political decisions. While the author's
                    message is not novel, his documentation of the political complexities in formulating tax and
                    expenditure policy provides the basis for new perspectives to assess expenditure and revenue
                    patterns.
            The major inadequacy of the book is its treatment of possible reforms of the present policy
                    formulation procedure. The author's  appraisal of
                    current procedure and suggestions for possible reform are not as complete as other aspects of the
                    book.
            The author does, however, accomplish his primary objective of illustrating that the economics of
                    taxation cannot be divorced from the politics of taxation.
            
               Commission on State Tax and Financing Policy, Indianapolis Thomas A.
                DeCoster
         
         
            
               Zachariah Chandler: A Political Biography. By Sister Mary Karl George, R.S.M.
                    (East Lansing: Michigan State University Press, 1969. Pp. x, 301. Notes, bibliographical note,
                    index. $8.50.)
            This volume adds to the growing biographical literature on Radical Republicans. One of the
                    conspicuous trends in the writing and rewriting of American history in recent years has been the
                    reinterpretation and reassessment of this once maligned political group. It is a little difficult to
                    classify Sister Mary Karl's contribution to the reassessment. In her introduction she says
                    Chandler's life needs reevaluation in the light of manuscript
                    materials—specifically papers of Chandler, Abraham Lincoln, Edwin M. Stanton, and John
                    Crewell —available to her which were not available to earlier biographers. At the same
                    time she admits that a good part of the Chandler papers have been "wittingly
                    destroyed" and suggests that in writing the biography she may be "approaching a
                    subject the wise historian has avoided for these very sound reasons" (pp. viii-ix).
            Sister Mary Karl has woven the details of Chandler's political career into a conventional
                    account of the Lincoln administration, Civil War, and Reconstruction. The book, perhaps because of
                    the limitations imposed by the materials available, does little to bring Chandler to life or to
                    reveal his philosophy, if any. The author seems never really to make up her mind about him. She says
                    that at the time of his death everyone agreed as to his personal honesty; yet at various times she
                    appears to accept the charges of his opponents that he was venal and corrupt. She agrees with an
                    earlier biographer that Chandler was "a power broker, a rough and tumble politician, a
                    fighter, and a vindictive individual" (p. 271).
            Chandler, who began his career as a Whig, was one of the founders of the Republican party in Michigan
                    and its first Republican senator. He served in the Senate almost continuously from his first
                    election in 1857 until his death in 1879. He was a strong opponent of slavery and an early advocate
                    of the use of Negroes in the Union Army, but he showed little humanitarian interest in Negroes and
                    did  not think them fit to vote. He voted for the Fourteenth and
                    Fifteenth amendments but did not speak in favor of them, and he tried to sabotage Charles
                    Sumner's Civil Rights Bill.
            During the Civil War he was one of the sponsors of the legislation creating the Joint Committee on
                    the Conduct of the War and served as a member of the committee. He was a strong opponent of George
                    B. McClellan, whom he considered "an imbecile if not a traitor" (p. 64). During
                    the political campaign of 1864 he was more intent on defeating McClellan than reelecting Lincoln,
                    for whom he felt no great enthusiasm. He played a key role in persuading John C. Frámont
                    to withdraw from the contest. He was strongly anti-Johnson and an ardent supporter of the
                    impeachment. On the other hand he was a warm supporter of Ulysses S. Grant. The patronage which he
                    dispensed as a close associate of the President during the Grant administration made it possible for
                    him to dominate the Michigan Republican organization.
            Perhaps next to his interest in personal political power his greatest interest as senator was in
                    working for economic benefits for the Old Northwest. He labored for a homestead law, a
                    transcontinental railroad, sound currency, and tariff protection—especially for Michigan
                    copper.
            
               Butler University, Indianapolis Emma Lou Thornbrough
         
         
            
               All Aboard! A History of Railroads in Michigan. By Willis Frederick Dunbar.
                    (Grand Rapids: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1969. Pp. 308. Notes, illustrations, maps,
                    index. $7.95.)
            Comprehensive histories covering the railroads of various states are sadly lacking. Heretofore only
                    Nevada had a history that presented a commendable degree of completeness. Now Michigan can be added
                    to the list.
            In this volume Dunbar does more than simply report the incorporation of a railroad line, when it was
                    built, when it was taken over by a larger entity, and when it was abandoned—if it was.
                    Instead, he tells about the legislative and economic climate of the times, the various political
                    settings, and the social mores of pioneer Michigan. Among other subjects the author covers railroad
                    land grants in the Wolverine State, the inducements of timber cutting and sawing and iron and copper
                    mining to railroad building, and the rise and fall of Michigan's electric interurbans.
            
               All Aboard is essentially a valuable handbook and reference source, useful to the
                    serious transportation historian as wells as to the devotee of local history. Rail buffs, hoping for
                    a plethora of detail  on railroad operations, types of
                    equipment, and intimate details on locomotive designs, may experience some disappointment. But that
                    should be alleviated by the author's tongue-in-cheek sense of humor when, for instance, he
                    describes the familiar degradation of service a railroad will take to gain a certificate of
                    abandonment from the Interstate Commerce Commission, or when he talks about the golden age of rail
                    travel with the enthusiasm that only becomes one who likes to ride trains.
            Dunbar is in error in assuming that the locomotive "Adrian," which ran over the
                    Erie and Kalamazoo in 1837, was the first to operate in the West. An engine went into operation on
                    the track of the Lexington and Ohio Railroad on March 2, 1833, and the miniscule Pontchartrain
                    Railroad down New Orleans way was apened to traffic April 14, 1831. If a youngster at a typical
                    Michigan small town railroad station heard the approaching train blow a short, a long, and a short
                    and a long for each road crossing as Dunbar states, the youth should have reported the engineer for
                    a serious rule violation. Up to the turn of the century the standard crossing whistle was two longs
                    and two shorts. The last short was made a long around 1910.
            The author's reason for the survival of Indiana's South Shore, namely "the
                    huge concentration of population in the area and the magnetism of Chicago" (p. 246)
                    overlooks the basic explanation. The pioneer efforts of Samuel Insull and his successors to upgrade
                    the track by welded heavy rails, the relocation of the line in great part to avoid city streets with
                    ninety degree curves, and similar measures have resulted in a trackage that has more characteristics
                    of a heavy duty railroad carrier than those of a country interurban line.
            A bibliography would have greatly improved Dunbar's basically fine volume. Conspicuously
                    missing from the footnotes are the corporate histories and other sources usually considered superior
                    to county and local accounts. If the author utilized these volumes, it would have been nice to know.
                    Illustrations in this work are always interesting and in many cases constitute collectors'
                    items. Unfortunately the reproduction is generally quite poor, something that should be rectified in
                    future editions. The simple maps at the first of each chapter are very helpful.
            
               Sarasota, Florida Elmer G. Sulzer
         
         
            
               Education in the Wilderness. By Floyd R. Dain. A History of
                        Education in Michigan, Volume I. (Lansing: Michigan Historical Commission, 1968. Pp. xviii,
                    345. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index. $6.00.)
            
            
               Education in the Wilderness considers the development of education in Michigan from
                    its French and English beginnings through the American territorial and early statehood era to 1850.
                    Dain's volume affords much evidence of the difficulties which beset the progress of
                    education in Michigan to 1850. The paucity of economic and fiscal resources stands out as a major
                    cause therefor. The scanty and scattered population was also a major and continuing deterrent. The
                    Wolverine State had not achieved a population of 400,000 by 1850. Education for the most part
                    remained dependent upon local interest and support for its existence. Moreover, since local
                    neighborhoods often preferred private or church sponsored schools to those under public auspices,
                    they frequently attempted to support competing schools because of personal and religious
                    preferences. Under these circumstances the "subscription school" played a key role
                    in local education.
            An important innovation characterized federal support of public education in Michigan. Unlike earlier
                    states which had been carved from the public domain, the section of land reserved for the support of
                    education in each congressional township was vested in the legislature of Michigan rather than being
                    placed under the immediate control of the residents of these respective townships. This giant step
                    toward state centralization gave the Wolverine legislature a financial leverage over schools above
                    that which assemblies in earlier states had achieved. Even so, scanty resources and extreme localism
                    made this leverage of limited impact prior to 1850. John D. Pierce and Isaac Crary, both New
                    Englanders, are given much credit for this and other steps on behalf of education in Michigan.
            Dain's study offers a wealth of information and is based upon substantial research. Its
                    heavy attention to the legal and constitutional framework in which education rested at times results
                    in wearisome detail at the expense of more interesting and less developed topics such as curricular
                    matters, the education of teachers, and the ranks of life from which they came. Incidentally, Dain
                    insists that "Michigan attracted a larger proportion of educated people than any other of
                    the newly-formed states or territories" (p. 195). Be this as it may, if the heavy infusion
                    of Yankees from New England and New York gave Michigan a larger than normal proportion of educated
                    settlers, her early schools do not reflect any obviously discernible degree of excellence over those
                    of other states of the Middle West which drew a relatively larger part of their population from the
                    Upper South.
            
               Indiana University, Bloomington Donald F. Carmony
         
         
         
            
               Factories in the Valley: Neenah-Menasha, 1870-1915. By Charles N. Glaab and
                    Lawrence H. Larsen. (Madison: The State Historical Society of Wisconsin, 1969. Pp. ix, 293. Notes,
                    map, illustrations, essay on sources, appendix, index. $6.00.)
            Historians tend to be drawn to the metropolis, and even increasing interest in urban history has
                    largely bypassed the smaller city. There are exceptions, of course, such as the New England factory
                    towns, the importance of which in the first phases of American industrialization has been the
                    subject of excellent studies. Still, the industrial communities of the Midwest which emerged in the
                    second half of the nineteenth century and which failed to make it big have needed to rely on the
                    amateur interested usually in pageantry for their histories. The authors' intention here as
                    stated in their preface is "to use Neenah-Menasha as a case study in the dynamics of
                    urbanization and industrialization in small cities in a Midwestern setting" (p. viii).
            Neenah-Menasha—two cities which are in all ways but political organization one
                    community—face each other across the lower Fow River in northeastern Wisconsin. Started
                    on the assumption that water power and favorable location would combine to insure growth and
                    eventual urban greatness, the towns soon became important flour milling centers. However, important
                    milling interests with the risk capital needed to transform the industry centered in Minneapolis and
                    forced the Wisconsin communities to turn to paper manufacturing in the 1870s. The success of this
                    industry in Neenah-Menasha is underscored by the fact that one of the early firms was
                    Kimberly-Clark.
            The authors are excellent in describing and analyzing the many factors involved in economic
                    development: entrepreneurial activity of the boosters, rivalry with neighboring towns, and relations
                    with the financial and industrial interests of Milwaukee, Minneapolis, and Chicago. All of these
                    factors are fully integrated into the broad context of regional development and industrial change.
            By the 1890s the early expectations of great growth and prominence had altered. Why this occurred
                    provides one of the book's more arresting themes. Nineteenth century booster mythology
                    stressed the overwhelming importance of location and to a lesser extent entrepreneurial zeal and
                    skill as explanations for urban growth. In reality the context needed for growth was more complex,
                    and many of the important factors could not be accounted for or controlled by the community.
                    Furthermore, the paper manufacturers who dominated Neenah-Menasha by the century's end were
                    not boosters. Financiallly, and even philanthropically, their interests extended well beyond the
                    borders of the towns. Indeed growth and the bringing in of new industry was thought to mean a more
                    competitive and turbulent  labor market. They were satisfied
                    that Neenah-Menasha remain small, stable communities where influence could be easily exerted.
            The last several chapters treat the social life of the various elements in the community and their
                    relationships. Here the authors were limited by a paucity of sources and, perhaps, the lack of a con
                    ceptual frame of reference. Thus they provide interesting detail but not an adequate analysis of the
                    social order. Cautious and careful in their research Glaab and Larsen have indeed provided us with a
                    well written case study of a midwestern industrial community. Their work points out the importance
                    of such study but also indicates the need for historians to utilize sociologists such as Warren and
                    Stein in their novitiate efforts to grapple with community structure and its dynamics in the
                    development of sophisticated approaches to the history of the small city.
            
               Illinois Institute of Technology, Chicago Stanley Buder
         
         
            
               Benjamin Helm Bristow: Border State Politician. By Ross A. Webb. (Lexington: The
                    University Press of Kentucky, 1969. Pp. xiii, 370. Illustrations, notes, critical essay on
                    authorities, index. $8.75.)
            Benjamin Helm Bristow was a "Kentucky bluejay," or supporter of the Union, and he
                    became a Republican by sincere conviction. Professor Webb divides this solidly researched biography
                    into three unequal parts with greatest emphasis on Bristow's years in Washington.
                    Bristow's border state background was of great importance in shaping his thinking, for he
                    was compelled to reconcile within himself the aristocratic ways of his mother's family and
                    the very different ideals of his father. The elder Bristow was a self-made frontier lawyer of strong
                    religious convictions, Whig politics, antislavery beliefs, and staunch unionism. Young Bristow was
                    broadened by his college education in Pennsylvania, after which he returned home to study law. When
                    the Civil War came, he served ably as a militia officer. While away on active service in 1863, he
                    was elected to the state legislature on a "Regular Union" ticket. A strong
                    advocate of emancipation, Bristow was one of the founders of the Republican party in Kentucky.
            When the war ended, Bristow became a federal district attorney, and he enforced vigorously the
                    unpopular civil rights statutes. In 1870 he went to Washington to become the first solicitor general
                    and at the same time to promote the fortunes of Republicanism in Kentucky where he openly urged
                    "progress" against "tradition." Webb describes
                    Bristow's successful legal work in some detail but does not clearly explain why he resigned
                    to become chief counsel for the in-famous  Texas and Pacific
                    Railway. In 1874 he returned to public service and took over the scandal ridden national Treasury.
                    The author considers Bristow a reforming secretary but does not provide a clear analysis of his
                    financial policy, particularly in the confusion of the resumption question. Bristow was never close
                    to President Ulysses S. Grant, and his unwavering determination to expose the Whiskey Ring angered
                    the President.
            In 1876 reform Republicans seriously considered Bristow for President, but he had little support in
                    Kentucky and did not actively seek the nomination, although he did receive a respectable vote at the
                    convention. In campaigning for Rutherford B. Hayes, Bristow spoke widely on the themes of sectional
                    reconciliation and Republicanism in the South. Leaving public life Bristow settled in New York City
                    and prospered as a lawyer with a large corporate practice. He was a founder and early president of
                    the American Bar Association, and in his last years he argued his greatest case in persuading the
                    Supreme Court to void the income tax of 1894.
            Bristow was never a leading figure in American politics, but this biography does advance the
                    reader's understanding of the Gilded Age, of the Republican party in the Upper South, and
                    of its connections with business. It reveals also the personal dilemma of a border state Republican
                    striving to instruct his fellow Kentuckians in new patterns of politics.
            Despite the heading the bibliography is entirely uncritical, and the occasional reliance on such
                    outdated works as those of Matthew Josephson is rather startling. Typical of the limitations of
                    Webb's approach is his failure to cite Milton Friedman's monumental Monetary
                    History (1963). Webb's volume is a sound traditional political biography, but economic
                    historians will be disappointed.
            
               Indiana University, South Bend Patrick J. Furlong
         
         
            
               The American Revolution and the French Alliance. By William C. Stinchcombe.
                    (Syracuse: Syracuse University Press, 1969. Pp. viii, 246. Notes, illustrations, bibliography,
                    index. $7.95.)
            It is a pleasure to encounter a monograph as satisfactory as William C. Stinchcombe's The American Revolution and the French Alliance. His focus is as sharp as it is
                    steady: it is on "the implementation of the French alliance in the United States"
                    and its impact upon American domestic and foreign policy (p. vii). This is not another review of the
                    diplomacy of the American Revolution, nor is Stinchcombe particularly engrossed with the details of
                    Franco-American relations in the period 1776-1783. His interest is rather with American  opinion and changing views of the vicissitudes of international
                    politics.
            Among the many virtues of Stinchcombe's study is his vigorous reminder that the French
                    alliance was hardly as inevitable as often portrayed. Indeed, he might well have dwelt at greater
                    length on the political discussions on the question of an alliance in the summer of 1776. For some
                    colonists an alliance with the long hated and feared French was too high a price for independence;
                    for others it would take time to adjust to the thought of soliciting—and
                    taking—aid from France against Great Britain. But for still others, such as John
                    Dickinson, an alliance was viewed as having higher priority than the Declaration of Independence
                    itself. Certainly old prejudices died hard: Englishmen in America did after all share much with
                    Englishmen in Britain—including their fear of "popery," their hatred of
                    the Roman Catholic religion. Necessity, in the War of Independence as in other conflicts, made for
                    some surprising political bedfellows. The French were hardly enamored with American republican
                    principles, but they could hardly resist the opportunity to embarrass Britain. The Count de
                    Vergennes, Stinchcombe reminds us, was even prepared to recognize the United States in 1776 but held
                    back on the news of the British capture of New York. Even so the flow of French aid continued, to
                    the extent that the Americans at Saratoga were supplied with 90 per cent of their arms and
                    ammunition by French merchants. While political doubts caused an initial congressional preference
                    for a commercial treaty with France, continuing French assistance, along with growing
                    self-confidence soon persuaded a majority to favor a full scale alliance.
            Its success was self-evident, although French activity to nourish American public support for the
                    alliance was not. Stinchcornbe's treatment of the French financed propaganda
                    effort—via Thomas Paine, Samuel Cooper, and Hugh Brackenridge—is unusually
                    interesting as is his examination of the pulpit rationalization of a Roman Catholic ally.
                    "The French," remarked William Gordon, "are the most disinterested people
                    in the world. They are everything but Protestants: & their being otherwise is a matter of no
                    great importance" (p. 100). Even John Jay confessed to an attachment to France "in
                    a degree that I could not have thought myself capable ten years ago" (p. 210). But, notes
                    Stinchcombe, there was a price: "If French aid was indispensable, it also meant that
                    Americans had to respond to unilateral French decisions" (p. 152). Americans learned their
                    lesson in power politics. To all intents and purposes the alliance ended with the war. Americans
                    determined to be their own masters. They were not ungrateful or unmoved by their experience, but
                    they declined further purportedly permanent alliances. It was a liason,  rather than a marriage, of convenience, one which allowed both
                    parties to pursue their own interests simultaneously.
            
               University of New Hampshire, Durham Trevor Colbourn
         
         
            
               Correspondence of James K. Polk. Volume I, 1817-1832. Edited
                    by Herbert Weaver; Paul H. Bergeron, Associate Editor. (Nashville: Vanderbilt University Press,
                    1969. Pp. xxxviii, 619. End maps, notes, illustrations, index. $15.00.)
            This volume contains 664 letters; the ninety-six written by Polk—and most of the
                    others—are reproduced in their entirety even though a few have been previously printed.
                    There is only one letter from Polk to his wife, no letter to Polk from his wife, and only one from
                    his mother, whom Polk referred to as "old lady." Fortunately, there are letters to
                    and from other members of his family, and they reveal the role of the eldest son James as a
                    principal adviser and consultant and indicate a rather close and warm family relationship.
            Polk had not acquired a national reputation by 1832, and a majority of his correspondents were fellow
                    Tennesseans. Some of the letters give good insights into the life of the times and of the writer;
                    many of Polk's congressional constituents sought his help in connection with appointments,
                    claims, land titles, pensions, and other matters of vital concern. Polk apparently viewed himself as
                    a servant of these constituents; he was not always successful in achieving the desired ends, but
                    there is no evidence here that he ever refused his aid in an honorable cause.
            The twenty letters between Polk and Andrew Jackson document the development of the early relationship
                    between those two and especially indicate that the younger man sometimes had sound advice for Old
                    Hickory. The respect of each for the political astuteness of the other is clearly evident.
            While the Polk-Jackson letters are rewarding, they are far less interesting than the twenty from
                    Archibald Yell to Polk; no Polk to Yell letters were located by the editors. Yell, later prominent
                    in Arkansas politics, filled his communications with rumored or actual developments on the Tennessee
                    political scene, verbally castigated his adversaries and praised his friends (sometimes obliquely),
                    occasionally followed one of his observations with a "ha-ha," and generally made
                    accurate political predictions. His spelling adds flavor to his writing.
            The editors are dealing with the correspondence, not the papers or works, of Polk, and their
                    editorial procedures and practices are worthy of emulation. They have summarized the 138 letters
                    which  are obviously unrevealing and unrewarding. The baggage of
                    address and closing, location, and type of letter—draft, copy, autograph letter
                    signed—is reduced to a minimum. Material for the notes has been drawn from county records
                    and histories, newspapers, compilations, manuscripts in various repositories, and numerous other
                    sources, but the notes themselves are not cluttered with documentation. Instead, a brief
                    bibliographical comment in the preface suggests the avenues traveled and refers the reader to the
                    comprehensive bibliography in Charles Sellers' biography of Polk. Editors Weaver and
                    Bergeron have done a superb job.
            
               Indiana University, Bloomington Chase C. Mooney
         
         
            
               William Jennings Bryan. Volume 111, Political Puritan, 1915-1925. By Paolo E.
                    Coletta. (Lincoln: University of Nebraska Press, 1969. Pp. ix, 334. Notes, illustrations, essay on
                    sources, index. $8.25.)
            This is the third and concluding volume of Professor Coletta's major biography of William
                    Jennings Bryan. Picking up the narrative after Bryan's dramatic resignation from Woodrow
                    Wilson's cabinet, Coletta examines the Great Commoner's central concerns and major
                    activities during the last decade of his life. The book falls neatly into three equal parts. In the
                    first third Coletta discusses Bryan and World War I: his battle against
                    "preparedness," his efforts to prevent American entrance, and his role as a
                    "mild reservationist" with regard to the Treaty of Versailles. The middle third of
                    the book lacks the unity of the other two sections. In it Coletta handles Bryan's work in
                    the women's suffrage and prohibition movements, his maneuverings at the Democratic
                    conventions of 1920 and 1924, and his thinking about American domestic and foreign policy issues in
                    the early 1920s. The final portion contains the story of Bryan's absorption in the
                    fundamentalist, antievolution crusade which led to his downfall in Dayton, Tennessee.
            The Bryan who emerges from this biography defies any easy summarization. Clearly he was a man of
                    limited intellectual capacity. He had little familiarity with the exciting and transforming ideas
                    which were shaping his time, and he was therefore reduced to clinging, almost pitiably, to the
                    simple attitudes he had inherited from his father. Somehow he managed to combine the open tolerance
                    of a Jeffersonian progressivism (with its reliance upon freedom, democracy, and reform) and the
                    closed-minded intolerance of a biblical fundamentalism (with its tendencies toward authority and
                    blind faith and all its fear of new ideas). All the while he cammanded the trust and the  unbounded admiration of an impressively large number of his fellow
                    citizens. Coletta's thorough and painstaking work illuminates Bryan considerably; but
                    lurking beneath the narrative is a figure who remains essentially mysterious.
            Coletta's treatment of his subject is openly sympathetic. It is his conclusion that Bryan
                    was a man of profound sincerity, unquestionable integrity, and a deep sense of the need for moral
                    commitment in human affairs. Moreover, Coletta makes a strong ease for Bryan's
                    contributions to American progressivism even in this final period of his life; after reviewing the
                    long list of Bryan's legislative proposals, it is easy to accept the argument that he was a
                    genuine source for much of the social experimentation of the New Deal. Given Coletta's
                    essential sympathy, it is not surprising that he sometimes seems a little embarrassed by
                    Bryan's religious fanaticism and by the anti-intellectualism, authoritarianism, and
                    ignorance which characterized his final struggle against Darwin. While Coletta is quick to rebuke
                    contemporaries who unfairly criticized Bryan's motives, he appears less ready to apply the
                    same standards to those who defended Bryan's less attractive pursuits. As a result the
                    author sometimes resorts to an unfortnate device: the defense of Bryan is made by Coletta himself,
                    but the most perceptive, ringing, and damning denunciations of Bryan are spoken by others who are
                    fairly and usually fully quoted.
            The important point, however, is that it is all there. The reader finishes the book with a solid
                    understanding of the arguments which raged around this tireless, enigmatic, and important figure in
                    American life. Coletta has examined an enormous quantity of primary and secondary source material,
                    and his scholarship in this volume is on the same high level as that of the first two.
            There seems little reason to doubt that this will long be the standard life of William Jennings
                    Bryan.
            
               The University of Oklahoma, Norman David W. Levy
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               An Atlas of Indiana. By Robert C. Kingsbury. (Bloomington: Department of Geography,
                    Indiana University, 1970. Pp. 94. Maps, major map and statistical data sources, gazeteer, index.
                    Paperbound, $2.00.) This atlas, offered by the Indiana University Department of Geography
                    as a contribution to the university's sesquicentennial, originally appeared in 1966 as a
                    contribution to the state of Indiana's sesquicentennial. It has been significantly expanded
                    for this new edition. Much useful information is presented in this revised atlas, but some maps are
                    difficult to read or interpret. The sources on which maps are based are often less explicitly
                    indicated than desirable. Nevertheless, this is an informative and useful booklet.
            
               Indiana Folklore: Journal of the Hoosier Folklore Society. Edited by Linda
                    Dèbgh. Vol. II, No. 1. (Bloomington: The Hoosier Folklore Society, 1969. Pp.132.
                    Magazine.) Readers of the Indiana Magazine of History who have not yet become
                    acquainted with Indiana Folklore, a magazine published by the Hoosier Folklore Society, may be
                    interested to learn that this biannual publication has entered its second volume. The above issue
                    has articles about Mormon legends, Indiana miracle legends, haunted bridges, Morgan's
                    Raiders, and other topics.
            
               The Hoosier School-Master. By Edward Eggleston. Introduction by Vernon Loggins. American Century Series. Ninth printing. (New York: Hill and Wang, 1969. Pp. xiv,
                    176. Paperbound, $1.45.) As Loggins indicates in his introduction, the publication of The
                    Hoosier School-Master in 1871 was a landmark in American literature. Within Indiana it is often
                    considered as the beginning of the Golden Age of Indiana literature which persisted until the early
                    twentieth century. Although well worth careful reading a century since its initial publication as a
                    novel emphasizing realism and western life rather than life in the eastern part of the United
                    States, particularly New England, it remains a moot question whether it merits being singled out
                    "as an accurate picture of a vanishing phase of American civilization" (p. v).
            
               The Genesis of Western Culture: The Upper Ohio Valley, 1800-1825. By James M.
                    Miller. Reprint. The American Scene: Comments and Commentators. Edited by Wallace
                    D. Farnham. (New York: Da Capo Press, 1969. Pp. XI, 194. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $12.50.) Although one of the early scholarly studies of culture in the Ohio Valley, this
                    volume continues to merit the very careful attention of students interested in the cultural
                    development of the Middle West.
            
            
               Pictorial History of Michigan: The Later Years. By George S. May. A John M. Munson
                    Michigan History Fund Publication, Michigan Historical Commission, Department of State. (Grand
                    Rapids: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1969. Pp. 303. Illustrations, index.
                    $20.00.) This interesting and informative book is the second in a two volume Pictorial History of Michigan. It emphasizes illustrations and commentary concerning the
                    development of industrialization and urbanization and their impact on the Wolverine State since
                    about 1900. Much attention is given to political, social, and cultural changes, while the
                    illustrations include advertisements and newspaper clippings as well as photographs.
            
               Turnpikes, Canals, and Steamboats. By John F. Stover. Classroom Library Series.
                    (Chicago: Rand McNally & Company, 1969. Pp. 61. Illustrations, other reading. Pamphlet,
                    $1.00.) Turnpikes, Canals, and Steamboats is a very readable booklet,
                    prepared by a scholar who is well informed regarding the history of transportation in the United
                    States. Designed for use principally by students at the secondary level, it should serve this
                    purpose quite well. The general reader, however, wanting an overall view of how transportation has
                    developed in the United States would also find this item a useful summary.
            
               Wells, Fargo Detective: The Biography of James B. Hume. By Richard Dillon. (New
                    York: Coward-McCann, Inc., 1969. Pp.320. Illustrations, sources, index. $7.95.) Inasmuch
                    as James B. Hume lived for a time in northern Indiana, this biography may have special interest to
                    Hoosiers with a bent for western Americana.
            
               The Search for America: Radicalism in America. The Thirty-second Annual LaFollette
                    Film Forum, Summer, 1969. ([Muncie]: Department of History, Ball State University, 1969. Pp. 36.
                    Pamphlet.) The Thirty-second Annual LaFollette Film Forum, offered on the Ball State University
                    campus during the summer of 1969, delved into varied historical and contemporary aspects of the
                    impact of radicalism in America. As the foreword indicates: "By expressing many points of
                    view ranging from the White Citizen's Council to the angry Negro and the New Left, attempts
                    were made to establish lines of communication between these diverse groups."
         
         
         
            Conference on Indiana Historic Preservation
            The second Annual Indiana Conference on Historic Preservation will be held at Bloomington, October
                    8-10, 1970. Printed brochures, containing information on the program, housing, and registration, may
                    be obtained from Dean Eunice Roberts, conference chairman, Memorial Hall West, Indiana University,
                    Bloomington, Indiana 47401. The 1970 conference will give further attention to architectural
                    preservation as a sequel to the 1969 conference. The major emphasis, however, will be on
                    preservation of natural areas and protection of the natural environment. Among other topics to be
                    considered are: preservation of local archival and manuscript material, the place of museums in
                    historic preservation, the role of archaeology in historic preservation, and the need for additional
                    favorable legislation to encourage preservation projects and programs.
            Chancellor Herman B Wells will be the keynote speaker for the conference. Other speakers include:
                    Stanley Cain, formerly assistant secretary of the interior and currently director of the Institute
                    for Environmental Quality at the University of Michigan; James C. Massey, chief for Historic
                    American Buildings Survey for the National Park Service; J. Reid Williamson, Jr., executive vice
                    president for Historic Savannah Foundation; and Carl Feiss, Fellow American Institute of Architects.
                    Additional speakers include: William B. Barnes, Indiana Department of Natural Resources; Thomas E.
                    Dustin, executive secretary of the Indiana Division of the Izaak Walton League; H. Roll McLaughlin,
                    president of Historic Landmarks Foundation of Indiana; Mrs. Fred W. Roache, executive secretary of
                    Hillforest Historical Foundation; and Robert N. Huff, Earlham College and chairman of Restoration
                    Committee for Levi Coffin House. The conference will include a Saturday luncheon at Columbus,
                    Indiana, at which Richard B. Stoner will discuss the architectural heritage of Columbus, followed by
                    a tour of local buildings representing such heritage.
         
      
   
