
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 43, Issue 1, pages 1-104. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:43+issue:1+year:1947&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            The Democratization of Indiana Territory
            
                    John D. Barnhart
                
            Little islands of French settlers, entirely surrounded by a wide sea of green forest, were to be
                    found along the rivers and lakes of Indiana Territory at the beginning of the nineteenth century.
                    Many of them had come from 
                        Canada
                    , and a few from 
                        France
                     and La Louisiane. Among them were descendants of French men and Indian women. Grouped
                    about Catholic missions or churches, military garrisons, and fur-trading posts, they varied from the
                    faithful domine and devout Jesuit, to the soldier, the wilder coureurs de bois, the women of ill repute whom the government had mistakingly hoped would
                    be transformed by the virtues of the New World into suitable wives for the distant sons of 
                        France
                    , and finally to the dark-skinned aborigines of the American forests. Living together in
                    small villages, the French tilled their long narrow farms which stretched back from the rivers.
                    Although primitive methods and tools were employed, they managed to raise more food than they
                    consumed. The surplus crops and the furs they obtained from the Indian trade were carried down the 
                        Mississippi
                     and exchanged for the necessities they could not produce and such luxuries as they
                    could afford. Their houses were usually primitive and characteristically equipped with porches or
                    galleries. Within were sometimes housed some highly prized and valued furniture, dishes, and
                    clothing which had been imported from 
                        France
                    . The amount of wealth generally acquired was not great and the economic system was not
                    based upon land as in the remainder of the 
                        United States
                    .1
            
            
               
                  1 Natalia M. Belting, "
                            Kaskaskia
                        , ‘The 
                            Versailles
                         of the West,’ in the Indiana Magazine of History (
                            Bloomington
                        , Indiana, 1905- ), XLI (1945), 1–18; Clarence W. Alvord (ed.) Cahokia Records, 1778–1790, in the 
                            Illinois State
                         Historical Library Collections, (
                     Springfield, Illinois
                  , 1903- ), II (1907), xiii-clvi; and Clarence W. Alvord, The 
                                Illinois
                             Country, 1673–1818 (Centennial History of 
                                Illinois
                            
                  , I, 
                     Springfield, Illinois
                  , 1920), 329–378, et passim.
               
            
            
            "Self-sufficient in their traditional isolation," the French were of a gentle and
                    indolent nature, dependent upon authority, devoted to community life, possessed of a taste for some
                    refinements, and possibly more temperate and law-abiding than many of the American frontiersmen, who
                    seemed to them as intruders upon an idyllic past. Disappointed with the passing of French control,
                    and the subsequent displacement of French law, some of the French began to emigrate to 
                        Louisiana
                    . After 1779 "a trickle of American immigration from the southern states, east
                    and west, had replaced them and was becoming by 1800 a stream manifestly destined soon to overflow
                    and fill in the whole of the … country." Many of the French were ruined by
                    generous loans to the cause of the Revolution and by the maintenance and pillage of troops. They
                    were neglected for years by Congress, and threatened with the loss of their slaves by the Ordinance
                    of 1787. The lands which Congress promised them, in many instances, fell into the control of
                    speculators. The character of their records, or their absence, gave great opportunity for corruption
                    and deceit. They were not only confronted with a new political system under American sovereignty,
                    but were soon excluded from its offices. It is not surprising that many left the villages of
                            
                  Vincennes, Kaskaskia
               , and Cahokia for the territory of 
                        Spain
                     west of the 
                        Mississippi
                    .2
            
            The presence of the French affected the character of the civilization that developed on this Middle
                    Western frontier. Their good relations with the Indians, which gave them immunity from attack, made
                    their villages a good place for the earliest Americans to settle. The confused state of their land
                    titles and their willingness to part with their claims or to make grants freely to the newcomers
                    enabled some of the frontiersmen to secure land long before the 
                        United States
                     placed land on the Indiana market. These conditions offered the kind of opportunities
                    upon which the land jobber thrived. The ownership of slaves and the guarantee of their property
                    rights made it difficult to enforce the prohibition of slavery which the Ordinance of 1787
                    contained. "Royalist by tradition, Federalists by tendency, content with the paternalistic
                    administration vouchsafed their ancestors, they were equally 
                  
                     2 Francis S. Philbrick (ed.), The Laws of Indiana
                                Territory, 1801–1809, in the 
                                Illinois State
                             Historical Library Collections, XXI (1930), ccxii-ccxiii,
                            xiii, et passim.
                  
               
                     content with the centralized rule of governor and judges. They
                    … ‘resented the burdens and … seemed indifferent to the supposed
                    virtues of popular government.’3 Their votes and influence could,
                    however, often be controlled by political adventurers who cultivated their favor. It is not
                    surprising that Governor William H. Harrison, with his 
                        Virginia
                     background, and with this type of environment in which to formulate his early policies,
                    should have been regarded by some of his people as a Federalist. Eventually, the French and their
                    influences were submerged in the mass of the more energetic and more numerous frontiersmen, but
                    these early contributions to the rising way of life in Indiana Territory were significant.
            The village of 
                        Vincennes
                    , which became the capital of the new territory, received an early American migration.
                    Apparently, the Piankashaw Indians had granted the French a considerable piece of land, which became
                    known as the 
                        Vincennes
                     Tract. From this the members of the court granted to themselves and the newcomers
                    generous portions of land. To every "adventurer" who came to live among them they
                    gave "a plantation of four hundred acres." They requested Congress to approve
                    these grants and pointed out that the amount wanted for themselves and the Americans would require
                    only a tract thirty miles square. The latter explained that they were reduced to poverty and misery
                    at the end of the long and severe Revolutionary war by their participation and contributions, by the
                    decline of trade, and the neglect of husbandry, and that they migrated to this distant country in
                    the hopes of obtaining a subsistence by their industry.4
            
            Congress, by an act of March 3, 1791, granted as much as four hundred acres to those who made
                    improvements on the land which the French gave them and one hundred acres to the militiamen who had
                    not received any other grant.5 To persons who located in or near 
                        Vincennes
                     by 1787, were 
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., xxi.
                  
                     4"'Petition of the Inhabitants of Post 
                                Vincennes
                             [July 26, 1787]," in Clarence E. Carter (comp. and
                            ed.), The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington
                            , 1934- ), The Territory Northwest of the River 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1787–1803, II, 58–61; "Address to
                            Colonel Josiah Harmar," in ibid., II, 65–66; and
                            "Petition to Congress from Post 
                                Vincennes
                            ," in ibid., II, 66–67.
                  
                     5
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, I, 221–222.
               
                     assigned 48,000 acres.6 Perhaps, therefore,
                    somewhere between one hundred and one hundred fifty American families lived in the vicinity by 1787.
                    Colonel Josiah Harmar reported in that year that 
                        Vincennes
                     contained about nine hundred French and four hundred Americans.7 It
                    seems likely that the proportion of the latter was larger when a census was taken in 1801. The town
                    of 
                        Vincennes
                     at that time was reported to contain 714 persons and the neighborhood 819 more.8
                    
                        Knox County
                     in 1810, which was by then restricted to this part of the territory, numbered its
                    people at 7,945.9 Many frontiersmen had obviously followed in the footsteps of
                    the first adventurers.
            On the northern bank of the Ohio River opposite the Falls, was the little
                    village of Clarksville, surrounded by the 150,000 acres of Clark's Grant, which 
                        Virginia
                     gave to the soldiers and officers of Clark's campaigns. Settlement of the area
                    began in 1784 and by the turn of the century it contained 929 persons, many of whom were
                    Clark's soldiers.10 Across the 
                        Ohio
                     was 
                        Louisville
                    , an important town for travelers and settlers, located at the Falls and at the end of
                    an extension of 
                        Boone
                    's Wilderness Road. Quite generally, also, boats coming down the 
                        Ohio
                     stopped at 
                        Louisville
                     and unloaded at least a portion of their passengers and cargo before running the
                        Falls.11 Down the 
                        Ohio
                     and over the roads through 
                        Kentucky
                     came the settlers of Clark's Grant and many who traveled to the northward and
                    westward. The essentially democratic character of the poorer immigrants 
                  
                     6 "Report of the Secretary of State to the President [Dec, 14, 1790]," in Carter, The Territorial Papers
                                of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , II, 315–316. See also the petition of thirty Americans who
                            had received no grants or small ones in ibid., II, 634–636.
                  
                     7 "Lt-Col. Josiah Harmar to General 
                                Knox
                            , Camp at 
                                Vincennes
                            , August 7, 1787," in the Military Journal of Major
                                Ebenezer Denny … (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1859), 218.
                  
                     8
                            Return of the Whole Number of Persons … according to the second
                                census (
                                Washington City
                             , 1802), 86. The census is also reprinted in Carter, The
                                Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                , The Territory of Indiana, 1800–1810 (1939), VII,
                            24–25.
                  
                     9
                            Aggregate amount of each description of Persons within the 
                                    United States
                                 of America, and the Territories thereof, agreeably to actual enumeration
                                made according to law, in the year 1810 [
                                Washington
                            , 1811], 86.
                  
                     10
                            Return of the Whole Number of Persons … according to the second
                                census, 86; Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , VII, 24–25.
                  
                     11 John Woods, Two Years' Residence in the settlement on
                                the English 
                                    Prairie
                                 in the 
                                    Illinois
                                 Country (
                                London
                            , 1822), 109–114.
               
                     from the Southern states was to be revealed when this area became
                    one of the anti-Harrison and antislavery strongholds in the struggles of the territorial period.12
            
            Quite apart from the settlement of 
                        Vincennes
                     and Clark's Grant was the occupation of the "Gore," which
                    was added to Indiana Territory in 1802. Freed from Indian claims by the Treaty of Greenville in
                    1795, it included the land east of the treaty line but west of the boundary adopted by the state of 
                        Ohio
                    . Its settlement began immediately after the treaty by squatters who located along the
                    northern bank of the 
                        Ohio
                    . Governor St. Clair reported that "numbers of People from 
                        Kentucky
                    " were making improvements on the public lands in such numbers that
                    "along the River, and a considerable distance inland the Country is covered with
                        Hutts."13 Secretary Sargent stated that there were a thousand of
                    these intruders west of the Miami.14 Farther north in the Whitewater Valley,
                    settlement was in part an expansion from the Miami Valley of which it is a tributary. The entire
                    valley contained many settlers from the Southern states who came from 
                        Kentucky
                     or over its roads and others who came by way of the roads which led to the Upper 
                        Ohio
                     and along that stream to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . A missionary recorded in April, 1810, that on the lower Whitewater there was a farm
                    almost every mile and that the owners have nearly all moved here from 
                        Kentucky
                    .111 The early immigrants who came by 
                        Cincinnati
                     followed roads that led northward to Colerain, 
                        Hamilton
                    , and Eaton, 
                        Ohio
                    , but an Indian Trail along the Whitewater was later turned into a road.16
            
            
               
                  12 "Petition to the President and Senate by Citizens of 
                            Clark County
                         [1809]" in Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                United States
                            
                  , VII, 705–707. Note large vote for Jennings reported in 
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana, Western Sun, July 1, 1809.
               
                  13 "Governor St. Clair to the Secretary of State [January,
                        1796]," in Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                United States
                            
                  , II, 548–549.
               
                  14 "Acting Governor Sargent to the Secretary of State, 
                            Cincinnati
                         20th of January 1797," in ibid., II, 587.
               
                  15 The settlement of the Miami Valley is described by "Dr. Daniel
                        Drake's Memoir of the Miami Country, 1779–1794," edited by Beverley
                        W. Bond, Jr., in the Historical and Philosophical Society of 
                            Ohio
                        
                        Quarterly Publication (18 vols., 
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
                  ,
                        1906–1923), XVIII (1923, nos. 2–3, April-September) ; the
                        "Memoirs of Benjamin 
                            Van
                         Cleve," edited by Bond in ibid., XVII (1922, nos. 1 and
                        2); and Dr. Ezra Ferris, "The Early Settlement of the Miami Country," in
                        Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1895- ), I, 245–364. See also Lawrence H. Gipson (ed.), The Moravian Indian Mission on White River
                  , in the
                        Indiana Historical Collections (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1916- ), XXIII (1939), 83.
               
                  16 John L. Heineman, The Indian Trail Down the Whitewater
                            Valley (n.p., 1912), 19. Bernhard Knollenberg, "Pioneer Sketches of the Upper
                        Whitewater Valley, 
                            Quaker
                         Stronghold of the West," in Indiana Historical Society Publications, XV (1945), 21–22, 32–33, 42, et
                            passim.
               
            
            
            When Indiana Territory was only a few years old, the migration of Quakers to the Whitewater began.
                    Dissatisfied with the spread of slavery into the Piedmont of 
                        North Carolina
                     and even among their own people, the Friends gave careful consideration to the
                    incompatibility of the institution with their faith. Large numbers left 
                        North Carolina
                    , and the Whitewater Country became the destination of so many of them that it developed
                    into one of the leading 
                        Quaker
                     strongholds. They concentrated in the upper parts of the valley, to which they
                    generally followed one of three routes. Leaving 
                        North Carolina
                     by way of the Yadkin River and Wood's or Flower Gap, they reached the New
                    River, which some of them followed until it became the Kanawha, which in turn they followed to the 
                        Ohio
                     and from thence they crossed the state of 
                        Ohio
                     by way of Gallipolis and 
                        Chillicothe
                     to Indiana Territory. This was sometimes referred to as the 
                        Quaker
                     route. It was the most direct, but was not the easiest. In the earlier years of the
                    migration, it was thought better for those traveling with loaded wagons to leave New River and to
                    take 
                        Boone
                    's Wilderness Trail into 
                        Kentucky
                    . They then turned northward to 
                        Cincinnati
                     and from thence they moved on to the upper Whitewater. Still others came north through 
                        Virginia
                     and turned westward over Braddock's Road." The migration, which was
                    often undertaken for conscience sake, brought into the territory a serious and sturdy people with
                    democratic principles and a prejudice against slavery. The settlement of this area was an important
                    political development in the history of the territory.
            The three areas, the town and vicinity of 
                        Vincennes
                    , Clark's Grant, and the Whitewater Valley, were soon joined together by trails
                    through the forests and by the expansion of settlement along the 
                        Ohio
                     and the traces which led into the interior. The cessions of land by the Indian tribes
                    facilitated this expansion. The Indians first agreed upon the boundaries of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Tract which they had granted to the French. The land between the 
                        Wabash
                     and the 
                        Ohio
                    , south of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Tract and the 
                        Buffalo
                     Trace which ran 
                  
                     17 "Autobiography" of Elijah Coffin in The Life of Elijah Coffin with a Reminiscence By his son Charles F. Coffin, edited
                            by Mary C. Johnson (n.p., 1863), 17–18; and Reminiscences of Levi
                                Coffin (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1876), 76, 100, 106. See also
                            Stephen B. Weeks, Southern Quakers and Slavery, A Study in Institutional
                                History, in Johns Hopkins University Studies in Historical and
                                Political Science (Extra Vol. XV, 
                        Baltimore, Maryland
                     ,
                            1896), 246–247.
               
                     from Clarksville to 
                        Vincennes
                    , was ceded by the 
                        Delaware
                     and Piankashaw in August, 1804. Other tribes gave up their claims to this cession a
                    year later, at which time the land lying between the 
                        Vincennes
                     Tract and the Gore, was also ceded. The north bank of the 
                        Ohio
                     from the Great Miami to the 
                        Wabash
                     and the interior for thirty to sixty miles north of the 
                        Ohio
                     was then open to settlement.18
            
            The triangle between Clarksville, 
                        Vincennes
                    , and the mouth of the 
                        Wabash
                     was soon crisscrossed with trails over which settlers moved into this part of the
                    territory. The main roads led to 
                        Vincennes
                     from points on the 
                        Ohio
                     where they connected with 
                        Kentucky
                     roads and with Ohio River traffic. They indicate that the early
                    settlers in this area probably came from or through 
                        Kentucky
                     or from points on the Ohio River in 
                        Virginia
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , or 
                        Ohio
                    .19
            
            The most important of these routes was the 
                        Buffalo
                     Trace, which ran from Clarksville to 
                        Vincennes
                    , where it connected with the trace to the 
                        Illinois
                     Country. Over it came many of the settlers of southwestern Indiana. Its various names
                    epitomize its history for it was called the 
                        Buffalo
                     Trace, the Old Indian Trail, the Governor's Road, and the 
                        Kentucky
                     Road. It became the approximate northern boundary of the Indian cession of 1804, and
                    settlement did not extend beyond it as late as May 10, 1807. Along the trace were founded the
                    villages and farms of the early settlers.
            Southeastern Indiana, between Clark's Grant and the Gore, was settled somewhat more slowly.
                    Like the Whitewater Valley, it was more closely connected with 
                        Cincinnati
                     than the western portions of the territory. The Ohio River was an
                    important thoroughfare and along its banks were founded a series of settlements during the
                    territorial period 
                  
                     18
                            Eighteenth Annual Report of the Bureau of American Ethnology (
                                Washington
                            , 1899), map 55; Treaties Between the 
                                    United States
                                 … and … Indian Tribes, from 1778 to 1837 (
                                Washington
                            , 1837), 8–17, 34–40.
                  
                     19 See the letters of John Gibson to Captain William Hargrove in
                            William M. Cockrum, Pioneer History of Indiana (
                                Oakland City
                            , Indiana, 1907), 203–229, and George R. Wilson, "Early
                            Indiana Trails and Surveys," in Indiana Historical Society Publications, VI (1919), 349–457. Roads extended towards 
                                Vincennes
                             from Clarksville, the mouth of Blue River (Fredonia),
                            Yellow Banks (
                                Rockport
                            ), and from opposite Red Banks (
                        Henderson, Kentucky
                     ).
                            The latter somewhat paralleled the 
                                Wabash
                            . Running east and west were trails connecting the roads between the 
                                Ohio
                             and 
                                Vincennes
                            , one running a few miles north of the 
                                Ohio
                            , another was marked a little to the south of the Patoka River.
               
                     from 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     to 
                  Vevay, Madison
               , and 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . Trails and roads also ran between 
                        Cincinnati
                     and these communities, particularly to the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    . The movement of settlers across the 
                        Ohio
                     from 
                        Kentucky
                     and the roads of that state was, even here, probably the dominant migration. 
            In 1809, Governor Harrison negotiated the treaties of Fort 
                        Wayne
                     which antagonized the Prophet and Tecumseh. A large extent of land north of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Tract between the Wabash River and the East Fork of
                        White River, and a twelve mile strip along the upper part of the Gore were
                    ceded at this time. Approximately one-third of the future state was then open to settlement, and
                    shorter roads were soon marked between 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    .
            The population of Indiana Territory was approximately twenty-five thousand in 1810, when Indian
                    difficulties were soon to check migration for a short time. The trails as well as the nativities of
                    the early settlers indicate that this population came largely from south of the Ohio
                    River and practically all over trails through 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and the Southern states.
            The experiences of this frontier population in establishing its social and political institutions
                    form an interesting and significant chapter in the development of frontier democracy. The forces
                    which handicapped the influence of the frontier in the South were absent or so weak as to be unable
                    to control the formation of government and society. Largely lacking were the numerous planters and
                    their slaves. Undemocratic state governments with their policies which favored land speculation,
                    slavery, and aristocracy were not in control. Climate and other geographic forces did not make
                    possible an agricultural regime based upon staple products such as cotton, rice, indigo, or tobacco.
            A few aspired to be country gentlemen in imitation of the planter class, farms were often called
                    plantations, a few colored slaves and workers were held as house servants, and land speculation
                    existed on every hand, but more often it was the activity of the small landholder rather than of the
                    rich who dealt in thousands of acres. The little coterie of able men who gathered around Harrison at 
                        Vincennes
                     came to be called the 
                        Virginia
                     Aristocrats. Negro servants were held by some of them. Aristocratic manners,
                    characteristic of the plantation South or of the old country, had been carried  into this frontier region. General James Dill, a native of 
                        Ireland
                     and a Harrison appointee, attended court as a prosecuting attorney in the costume of a
                    gentleman of the Revolutionary period, knee breeches, silver buckles, and cue, "a mild
                    protest against the leveling tendencies of the age" and of the frontier.20
            
            But the character of society was not determined by these forces. The larger number of citizens were
                    small landowners and squatters. Until the land was surveyed and placed on sale, nearly all were
                    squatters. When the sales were opened, those who had the money bought small pieces of land. Since
                    the credit system held sway from 1800 to 1820, many a poor man got together enough money to make the
                    first payment and then hoped that industry and good fortune would enable him to meet the succeeding
                    payments before it was too late. The arrears of interest and principal indicate that many had been
                    too optimistic.21 But the point is that the Indiana frontier was a poor
                    man's home and its development in the formative period was shaped by frontier influences.
            The law which created Indiana Territory re-established the same nonrepresentative type of government
                    which existed in the first stage of the Northwest Territory.22 William Henry
                    Harrison, the governor of the new territory, had gained experience in the former where he served for
                    short periods as secretary and delegate to Congress. He avoided many of the arbitrary acts of St.
                    Clair, but his policies and appointments as governor attracted to him many of the more conservative
                    leaders and antagonized a few vigorous men and a growing number of the newer settlers.23 Although the 
                  
                     20
                            History of 
                                    Dearborn
                                 and 
                                    Ohio
                                 Counties, Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1885), 148–149; Oliver H. Smith, Early Indiana Trials
                                and Sketches (
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1858), 172–173;
                            sketches of James Dill, English Collection, Biographical Sketches, D; Jacob P. Dunn, Indiana and Indianians (5 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1919), I, 287; William Wesley Woollen, et at (eds.),
                            "Executive Journal of Indiana Territory, 1800–1816," in Indiana
                            Historical Society Publications, III (1900), 117, 154, 167, 174, 180, 201,
                            205, 209, and 217.
                  
                     21 "The Memorial of the Legislature of the Indiana Territory,
                            31st August, 1814," in American State Papers: Documents, Legislative
                                and Executive (38 vols., Washing-ton, 1832–1861), Public
                                Lands (1832–1861), XXIX (1834), 888; ibid., XXXI
                            (1859), 793–795; ibid., XXXIII (1860), 456; C. F. Emerick, The Credit System and the Public Domain (
                        Nashville, Tennessee
                     , 1899).
                  
                     22
                            Annals of Congress, 6 Cong. 1 Sess., 1498–1500.
                  
                     23 Dorothy B. Goebel, William Henry Harrison, A Political
                                Biography, in Indiana Historical Collections, XIV (1926),
                            53–88; Homer G. Webster, "William Henry Harrison's
                            Administration of Indiana Territory," in Indiana Historical Society Publications, IV (1907), 170–297; Beverley W. Bond, Jr., The Civilization of the Old Northwest (
                                New York
                            , 1934), 173–174, et passim.
                  
               
                     secretary, John Gibson, spent his life along the frontier from 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                    , he had little influence upon the government, and the judges were not noted for their
                    sympathy with the ways of the frontiersmen. From the beginning, however, there was much interest
                    taken in the acts of government, and neither the efforts of the people to make the government more
                    democratic nor the governor's critics were suppressed. An almost immediate and continuous
                    movement was begun to make the government not only responsive to the wishes and needs of the people,
                    but also to place it in their hands.
            The causes of this movement might be classified as the conditions which produced discontent and the
                    developments which gave the people the opportunity to participate in their own government. Some of
                    them were the lack of unity in a territory which included remote settlements occupied by people of
                    different origins, connections, and interests, as well as' the uncertainty of land titles, the
                    activity of land speculators, and the claims of the Indians to large parts of the territory. But the
                    desire of the people for greater self-government, the political ambitions of various individuals,
                    the efforts to legalize slavery, and the difference of opinion as to the best methods of attracting
                    settlers to the country were also involved. Perhaps this latter point has not received enough
                    attention. Persons of aristocratic tendencies placed much emphasis upon the importance of securing
                    men of wealth, family, and education. The closest source of such settlers was the planter class of 
                        Kentucky
                     and other Southern states. The planters owned slaves, hence the efforts to legalize
                    slavery. On the other hand, the democratic masses from the South, many of whom had there suffered
                    political, social, and economic discriminations, and settlers from the North were not enthusiastic
                    about the pretensions of the aristocrats to superior talents and they were not willing to pay the
                    price of their coming,–the admission of slavery. It was the old contest of a white
                    man's society with democratic features against the planters' social order with its
                    aristocratic characteristics. Often the contest degenerated into petty quarrels in which every act
                    of the governor was attacked and defended with spirit and acrimony, but if one sees only these
                    disputes, the trees have obscured the forest.24
            
            
               
                  24
                        
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana Gazette, 1804–1806, and the 
                            Vincennes
                        , Indiana, Western Sun, 1807 f., are the chief sources of this
                        criticism. Some of the writers took the trouble to trace the controversy as they saw it from the
                        beginning. Numerous references to these newspapers will be made in the following pages.
            
            
            The territorial history of Indiana falls rather naturally into five divisions. There was the
                    unrepresentative stage of territorial government which lasted four years, the early part of the
                    second stage before the separation of 
                        Illinois
                     Territory in 1809, the shorter term between the division of the territory and the
                    resumption of Indian warfare, the three years of warfare from the 
                        Tippecanoe
                     campaign in 1811 to the end of Harrison's campaign in 1813, and finally the
                    successful struggle for statehood, 1814–1816.
            Before the formation of Indiana Territory, petitions for the admission of slavery in the Northwest
                    were sent to Congress from the 
                        Illinois
                     Country. Before Harrison arrived, another petition, containing 270 names and requesting
                    a limited type of slavery, was forwarded from the same region. Petitions and letters were sent to
                    Governor Harrison early in 1801, largely from the 
                        Illinois
                     counties, advocating an advance to the second or semi-representative stage of
                    government. This two-fold agitation created a problem for the new governor. He apparently decided to
                    oppose the request for a change in government. He supposedly wrote a letter in opposition calling
                    attention to the increased costs which the people would have to bear. As a result this phase of the
                    agitation came to an end.25
            
            The next year, 1802, the slavery phase of the movement was resumed, when the governor was requested
                    to call a convention to consider the propriety of repealing the antislavery article of the Northwest
                    Ordinance. He decided to support this phase of the agitation, professing to believe that a majority
                    of the people favored this procedure. He called an election of delegates and the convention
                    assembled at 
                        Vincennes
                    , December 20, 1802. Formal consent to the suspension for ten years was given on
                    Christmas day. Three days later a petition to Congress requested the suspension on the grounds that
                    desirable settlers were forced to move west of the 
                        Mississippi
                     because they could not bring their slaves into Indiana Territory. It was also requested
                    that the slaves that 
                  
                     25 Petition of John Edgar, et al., of January 12,
                            1796, in American State Papers: Documents, Legislative and Executive, Public
                                hands, XXVIII (1832), 69–70; Memorial of Thomas Posey, November 18,
                            1799, in William H. Smith (ed.), The St. Clair Papers–The Life and Public Services of Arthur St. Clair (2 vols.,
                                    
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , 1882), II, 451 notes; ibid.,
                            II, 447–448 note; and Jacob P. Dunn, "Slavery Petitions and
                            Papers," in Indiana Historical Society Publications, II (1895),
                            455–461. See also Letters of Decius …
                                    (
                        Louisville, Kentucky
                     , 1805), 7.
               
                     would be brought to the territory during the proposed suspension
                    should remain slaves after the ten years were passed. The government was also asked to clear the
                    Indian title to the southern part of the territory, to sell the lands in small quantities and at a
                    lower price, to grant pre-emption to the squatters who were waiting the opportunity to buy the land
                    on which they were living, to hasten the settlement of the claims granted to the early settlers, and
                    to grant lands to encourage the building of roads and taverns and the establishment of educational
                    institutions. They also petitioned that the fifty-acre-freehold qualification for voters be repealed
                    and that the right of suffrage be extended to free adult male inhabitants. If it is realized that
                    the members of the convention were chiefly interested in developing the territory, their labors are
                    rational even though their support of slavery on the one hand and democracy on the other was
                    philosophically inconsistent. They sought to attract wealthy settlers by legalizing slavery, and
                    poorer settlers by the opportunity to buy land in smaller pieces and at lower prices and to have a
                    potent voice in their own government. Even the meeting of the assembly was a step in the direction
                    of self-government.26
            
            Congress did not act favorably upon the petition of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Convention, and the governor and judges of the territory evidently decided to meet the
                    situation in part by an official evasion of the Northwest Ordinance. In their legislative capacity
                    they adopted a law concerning servants which was taken from the 
                        Virginia
                     code. It provided that Negroes and mulattoes must perform service due their masters and
                    that contracts between master and servants were assignable.27
            
            Although the admission of slavery appears to have been the leading issue in this first period of
                    territorial history, it was not the only issue. Continuing dissatisfaction with the first stage of
                    territorial government was reflected in a petition 
                  
                     26 The proclamation calling the convention, the resolution respecting
                            Article VI of the Northwest Ordinance, and the petition of the convention are printed in
                            Logan Esarey (ed.), Messages and Letters of William Henry Harrison (2
                            vols., Indiana Historical Collections, VII and IX, 1922), I,
                            60–67. Harrison was charged with undue influence in bringing this convention into
                            existence, Letters of Decius, 27; and "A Freeholder of 
                                Knox County"
                             (William Mcintosh), in 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana Gazette, August 7, 1804.
                  
                     27 Philbrick, The Laws of Indiana Territory,
                                1801–1809, in 
                                Illinois State
                             Historical Library Collections, XXI, 42–45.
               
                     concerning the land policy, in a request of the 
                        Illinois
                     counties to be added to Upper 
                        Louisiana
                    , in a request from 
                        Detroit
                     for separation from Indiana Territory, and in a petition that Harrison should not be
                    reappointed for a second term as territorial governor."
            The first period of territorial government came to an end when Harrison reversed his position on the
                    advisability of passing into the second or semi-representative stage of government in 1804.
                    Petitions, he stated, were presented to him asking for representative government. To ascertain the
                    wishes of a majority, he called an election on September 11, at which time the majority of those
                    voting, favored the change. The governor proclaimed the second stage and called an election of
                    representatives for the lower house of the territorial assembly.29
            
            Whether the change represented the wishes of the majority or not, a violent newspaper controversy
                    broke out, in which Harrison's .critics soon made known their opposition. "A
                    Freeholder of 
                        Knox County,"
                     who was probably William Mcintosh, criticized Harrison's sponsorship of the 
                        Vincennes
                     Convention as well as a recent meeting in 
                        Vincennes
                     for the purpose of petitioning for the second stage. He asserted that the advance
                    should have come spontaneously and not have been forced by the governor.30 The
                    meeting to which he referred had adopted an address in which objection was made to the limited
                    legislative powers of the governor and judges, to the power of Congress to countermand their action,
                    to the unsuitability of the laws of other states for Indiana Territory, and to a lack of a voice in
                    any act of the territorial or national government. In extravagant language, the address referred to
                    the first stage of territorial government as the most abominable and tyrannical system ever
                    organized for freemen. The second stage was described as imperfect but as an improvement. It also
                    asserted that the expenses would not be too heavy, that a delegate in Congress was needed, and that
                    able men could be found to serve in the legislative assembly.31
                    "Gerald," who was probably Benjamin Parke, asserted 
                  
                     28 Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , VII, 243–247, 140–145, 99–106, and
                            118–123.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana Gazette, August 7, 1804; Esarey, Messages and Letters of Harrison, I, 106–107, 112–113;
                            Woollen et al., "Executive Journal," Indiana Historical
                            Society Publications, III, 124, 125–126.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana Gazette, August 7, 1804.
                  
                     31
                            Ibid., August 7, 1804.
               
                     that the petitions induced a strong belief that a majority of
                    the freeholders wanted the change in government, while "A Citizen," probably
                    Mcintosh, denied this, and a "Plough Boy" defended the governor.32 Name calling and heat were soon substituted for reasoning, the writers revealed each
                    other's identity, and Parke obviously tried to provoke Mcintosh into challenging him to a
                    duel, but the latter asked Parke if calumny was Harrison's last defense.33
            
            For a time, however, Harrison and his supporters kept things well in hand. President Thomas Jefferson
                    requested Harrison to choose for him the five members of the upper house of the legislature and
                    Benjamin Parke, Harrison's close friend, was elected delegate to Congress.34
            
            The territorial legislature functioned with reasonable wisdom, thus denying the allegation that the
                    territory lacked the necessary men of talents. Two of the measures which seem to demonstrate the
                    good sense of its members were the substitution of a single county court for the earlier complicated
                    system, and the codification of the laws.35 More important was the gradual
                    assertion and execution of the wishes of the people in a territorial government that was only
                    partially representative.
            But harmony was not to continue uninterrupted for the war of petitions was soon begun. The
                    inhabitants of 
                        Randolph
                     and St. Clair counties late in 1805 prayed the suspension of Article VI of the
                    Northwest Ordinance and the creation of a western territory, referring again with some poignancy to
                    the haste with which the advance to the second stage was accomplished. About the same time, several
                    members of the territorial legislature petitioned the admission of slavery and the formation of a
                    state government for the entire territory.36 The legislature passed early in the
                    fall an act concerning the introduction of Negroes and mulattoes which provided that the slaves
                    could be indentured and held to service and that the children of these indentured servants 
                  
                     32
                            Ibid., August 14, 1804.
                  
                     33
                            Ibid., August 21, 28, September 11, and 18, 1804.
                  
                     34 "Jefferson to Harrison, 
                                Washington
                             Apr. 28, 1805," in Esarey, Messages and Letters of
                                Harrison, I, 126–128; 
                        Cincinnati, Ohio
                     , Liberty Hall, September 17, 1805.
                  
                     35 Philbrick, The Laws of Indiana Territory,
                                1801–1809, in 
                                Illinois State
                             Historical Library Collections, XXI, 115–118, 153.
                  
                     36 Dunn, "Slavery Petitions and Papers," in Indiana
                            Historical Society Publications, II, 476–483.
               
                     could also be held until they attained the ages of twenty-eight
                    and thirty.37
            
            Perhaps the question of slavery was the leading issue in dividing the people into parties, the
                    administration party being composed of the friends of Harrison and the rising popular party of his
                    opponents. Giving reality to the slavery question was the affect it would have on the type of people
                    who settled in the territory and the consequent influence on the social and political order. Not a
                    mere struggle over slavery arose, but a widespread movement to work out a popular government at the
                    level of the common citizen, a government that would prevent the development of an aristocratic
                    social and political system. It sought also to secure a land system more advantageous to the common
                    man and less conducive to speculation and large holdings. It was a broader movement than those in 
                        Kentucky
                    , 
                        Tennessee
                    , and 
                        Ohio
                    , and it quickly took the form of a two-party political contest. Representatives of the
                    people took over the government even in the face of the absolute veto of the governor. Petitions
                    were forwarded to the proper authorities about a variety of subjects: the appointment of a new
                    territorial judge, popular election of members of the council, popular election of the delegate to
                    Congress, election of militia officers, extension of the suffrage, forgiveness of interest and
                    extension of time for making payments on land, extension of time for filing claims for land,
                    pre-emption, land grants, restrictions on speculators, abolition of indentured servitude,
                    reappointment and non-reappointment of Governor Harrison, and the division of the territory. Persons
                    attending a meeting in 
                        Clark County
                     asked that Congress should not admit slavery but should wait until the territory became
                    a state and let the people decide.38
            
            The territorial legislature soon reflected the sentiment of the people. The second session of the
                    second General Assembly which began on September 26, 1808, indicated a growing 
                  
                     37 Philbrick, The Laws of Indiana Territory,
                                1801–1809, in 
                                Illinois State
                             Historical Library Collections, XXI, 136–139.
                  
                     38 Dunn in his "Slavery Petitions and Papers," did
                            not print all of the petitions concerning slavery, and omitted other petitions probably of
                            equal or greater significance. Esarey, in his Messages and Letters of
                            Harrison, printed some of those which Dunn omitted, but the larger number are found in
                            Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , VII, et passim. The issues of the 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, Western Sun contains a large amount of political
                            news during the years 1807–1809.
               
                     appreciation of its powers and of the popular will in contrast
                    to the wishes of the governor and his supporters. The legislative council petitioned Congress that
                    its members should be popularly elected, and the lower house petitioned the division of the
                    territory and the popular election of the delegate to Congress.39 The
                    representatives may have exceeded their authority to be certain that a federal officer should not
                    have a seat in the legislative council.40 After a number of petitions opposing
                    slavery were received and after General W. Johnston delivered a very able report against the
                    admission of slavery, the representatives voted unanimously to repeal the territorial act concerning
                    the introduction of Negroes and mulattoes into the territory, but the repeal was rejected by the
                    upper house.41 The lower house also petitioned that the veto power and other
                    controls over the legislature be restricted.42 Jesse B. Thomas was chosen to be
                    the delegate to Congress after he pledged himself to work for the division of the territory.43 It has been pointed out that the election of Thomas was due to a union of the
                    antislavery forces east of the 
                        Wabash
                     with the proslavery forces west of the 
                        Wabash
                     in opposition to the Harrison party, without recognizing clearly that this union
                    indicated that slavery was not the leading issue. It was Harrison's first serious defeat
                    and from it stemmed the events which gave the popular party control of the legislature after the
                    division of the territory.44
            
            Congress responded to these demonstrations of the popular will by providing for the popular election
                    of the councilors and the delegate to Congress, and for the division of the territory by the
                    creation of 
                        Illinois
                     Territory.45 The Harrison 
                  
                     39 Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , VII, 600–602; "Gen. W. Johnston [to] Fellow
                            Citizens, Nov. 2, 1808," in Vin-cennes, Indiana, Western Sun,
                            November 12, 1808; and Journal of the House of Representatives of the Indiana Territory:
                            Began and held at the Town of 
                                Vincennes
                            , on Monday the twenty sixth day of September one Thousand eight [hundred]
                            & eight and of the Independence of the 
                                United States
                             the thirty third, see October 11, 1808.
                  
                     40 Journal of the House of Representatives of the Indiana Territory,
                            October 4, 5, 8, 10, and 14, 1808.
                  
                     41
                            IbM., October 1, 4, 5, 7, 12, 13, 14, 19, and 24, 1808. See also 
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, Western Sun, December 17, 1808.
                  
                     42 Journal of the House of Representatives of the Indiana Territory,
                            October 11, 1808.
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., October 22, 1808.
                  
                     44 Solon J. Buck, 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                 in 1818 (
                        Springfield,
                                    Illinois
                     , 1917),
                            181–193, gives a brief but excellent account of the territorial period previous
                            to separation.
                  
                     45
                            Annals of Congress, 10 Cong., 2 Sess., 1808–1810,
                            1821–1822.
               
                     group was now face to face with a growing
                    popular party which already included a majority of the people in the new Indiana Territory and which
                    received the opportunity to control the entire legislative branch of the government as well as the
                    delegate to Congress. Harrison remained quite popular, perhaps in part, because he was public
                    spirited and above much of the petty politics which accompanied the larger struggle.
            The changes in the structure of the territorial government caused a long and acrimonious contest in
                    1809 which revealed a democratic spirit and procedure in advance of its time. The regular election
                    for members of the legislature was held on April 3, 1809, before official word was received of
                    division. Additional members were made necessary by division and new members and the delegate to
                    Congress were elected on May 22.40 Throughout the early months of the year, the
                    partisan controversy was waged in the columns of the Western Sun, through
                    handbills, and in public meetings. Even after the last election, there were charges and counter
                    charges, explanations of what had happened, and an anti-climatical campaign for and against the
                    reappointment of Governor Harrison. The election resulted in the choice of Jonathan Jennings as
                    delegate to Congress in which position he became the leader of the anti-Harrison forces. The upper
                    house of the territorial legislature was chosen for the first time by the voters. The legislative
                    results of the election and the protests of the Harrison leaders leave no doubt of the significance
                    of the results.47
            
            The wide scope of the discussion and the intelligence and restraint demonstrated in its conduct might
                    prove surprising to those who belittle the frontier. The controversy was initiated by "A
                    Citizen of 
                        Vincennes
                    ," Doctor Elias M'Namee, when he wrote: 
                        In the 
                                United States
                             there are two parties of men, commonly distinguished 
                        
                           46 Journal of the House of Representatives of the Indiana
                                    Territory begun and held at the Town of 
                                        Vincennes
                                     on Monday the sixteenth day of October one Thousand Eight Hundred
                                    & eight [nine] and of the Independence of the 
                                        United States
                                     the Thirty fourth. The validity of the election was much discussed.
                        
                           47
                                    
                                        Randolph
                                    , the defeated candidate for Congress, challenged M'Namee to a duel, but
                                    was refused. 
                                        Vincennes
                                    , Indiana, Western Sun, June 10, 1809. Waller Taylor,
                                    one of the leading Harrisonites tried to pick a quarrel with Jennings, the
                                    successful candidate. William W. Woollen, Biographical and Historical
                                        Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , Indiana, 1883), 391–399.
                     
                             by the epithets of Eepublicans, and Federalists. These
                            parties have always existed, in this obscure portion of the Union, but from the trimming
                            disposition of the public officers, they have been jumbled together in chaotic confusion,
                            and perhaps would long have remained so, if a question of vast moral and political
                            importance, had not been started, and which necessarily separated the two parties, and
                            called each into action. I mean the introduction of slavery.48
                  
                    M'Namee wrote rather philosophically, the Federalists were aristocrats who distrusted the
                    people and the Republicans were democrats who had faith in the people. The doctor's
                    analysis seemed inaccurate to many of his contemporaries and very annoying to the aristocrats of
                    Indiana Territory, but there was a large amount of truth in what he wrote. Perhaps, too, his
                    treatment of the slavery issue was correct, that is, it was the issue which crystalized the
                    differences between the two groups and which spurred them to action. In this pre-election
                    discussion, General W. Johnston suggested that the labor of the poor would be reduced in value by
                    competition with slave labor.49 "Slim Simon" denied this and
                    asserted that the slaveowner could not undersell the farmer. He held that slaves were only dangerous
                    in a few states, that their diffusion would aid the slaves and the Southern states, and that no
                    moral question was involved.50 M'Namee asked why Indiana should admit into its
                    midst the danger which beset the Southern states.51 Johnston suggested that
                    there was plenty of room in Southern territories without bringing slaves into Indiana.52 "A Farmer" settled the diffusion argument by stating that if Negroes
                    were rendered more happy they would multiply proportionally, that the admission of slaves into
                    Indiana would not affect the general condition, and that the only result would be to place Indiana
                    in the same perilous condition as the Southern states. He asked "How can humanity be
                    enlisted on the side of slavery …?" He also asserted that the
                    adoption of slavery 
                  
                     48
                            
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, Western Sun, January 28, 1809. See also other
                            communications in ibid., February 11, 1809, February 18, 1809; and two
                            handbills by "A Citizen of 
                                Vincennes
                            " to "The Citizens of Indiana" and "A
                            Detector Detected" to "Fellow Citizens of Indiana," both of which
                            were written during the election campaign.
                  
                     49
                            
                                Vincennes
                            , Indiana, Western Sun, January 28, 1809.
                  
                     50
                     Ibid., February 4 and 11, 1809.
                  
                     51
                            Ibid., February 11 and 18, 1809.
                  
                     52
                            Ibid., February 18, 1809. See also "A Citizen of 
                                Vincennes
                            " in the same issue.
               
                     would be a political evil." Jonathan Jennings
                    challenged the constitutionality of the indenture act/'4 M'Namee also followed
                    this idea, holding that its unconstitutionality would deter the slaveowners from coming to Indiana
                    and that the spirit in favor of slavery manifested by the official class would prevent the
                    immigration of those opposed to slavery. He also attacked Harrison and Judge Benjamin Parke for
                    interfering in elections, engaging in intrigues and writing scurrilous pieces over various
                    signatures for the newspapers. Much criticism was offered because Parke, the first delegate, and 
                        Randolph
                    , the Harrison candidate, in 1809, held office under Harrison's appointment.
                    The conduct of the land sales was objected to, including the participation of the governor. His veto
                    and appointive powers were attacked. It was denied that a majority of the people ever favored
                    slavery but that Harrison's influence in the elections and among the official class was too
                    strong at first to be resisted.55 After the election was over "A Friend
                    to Truth" observed that 
                        the experience of nine turbulent years, has taught the peaceful citizens of this territory,
                            who migrated and purchased the government lands under the pledged faith of government that
                            their rights should be protected, and slavery should never be admitted, that while the
                            president continues in office a governor from a Southern state, who in political function or
                            ordinary occupation, violates that faith, they will never enjoy tranquility, nor the
                            territory receive any great accession of population … ,56
                  
                    
            
            The controversy reached a climax in the election of the delegate to Congress. It is possible that
                    Harrison was ready to compromise before it was over. The "Detector," just before
                    the voting, reviewed the slavery controversy in a manner to allay the feeling of all engaged,
                    admitted that the pro-slavery admissionists were beaten and ready to abandon the idea, and proposed
                    that all "unite … upon other schemes to improve our country." He
                    asserted that the opposition did not care about the slaves, but that they were interested only in
                    getting offices.57 Late in the year the legislature petitioned 
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., March 4, 18, and April 15, 1809.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., March 11, 1809.
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., April 22 and May 6, 1809.
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., August 26, 1809.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., Extra, May 15, 1809.
               
                     the reappointment of Harrison,58 but the
                    defeated Thomas 
                        Randolph
                     could not be silenced and peace was not declared.
            When the elections for the new legislature were called in 1810, there was only a slight revival of
                    the contest of the preceding year. Outside of 
                        Knox County
                     the popular party was successful, and in 
                        Knox
                    , General W. Johnston, who was not a Harrisonite, was elected as one of the
                    representatives. This legislature wrote the victory of the popular party into law. New counties were
                    formed, members of the legislature were apportioned, the date for the election of the congressional
                    delegate was set, the indenture law was repealed, and the law requiring servants of color to fulfill
                    the contracts under which they entered the territory was also repealed.50
                    Nothing is more revealing than Harrison's failure to use his absolute veto upon any of
                    these acts. No longer was his influence dominant. His friends could not browbeat a critic into
                    silence, and he was willing to give up the struggle if peace could be restored.
            But some of his followers and many of his opponents were unwilling to make peace. The people were
                    unwilling to give up the democratic advances and, indeed, wanted to make their government more
                    democratic. The violent storm in the press, however, ceased and something very much like a calm
                    ensued. Jennings endeavored to persuade Congress to declare ineligible for election to the
                    legislature officers appointed by Harrison, to (remove the territorial capital from 
                        Vincennes
                    , to grant manhood suffrage, and to provide for the election of sheriffs in place of
                    appointment by the governor. He even wrote about filing impeachment charges against the governor.60 Two petitions were sent to Congress late in 1811 complaining of
                    Harrison's interference in elections and asking that officials of the 
                        United States
                     be prohibited from interfering 
                  
                     58 Journal of the House of Representatives of the Territory of
                            Indiana, October 20 and 21, 1809.
                  
                     59 Louis B. Ewbank and Dorothy Riker (eds.), The Laws of
                                Indiana Territory, 1809–1816, in Indiana Historical Collections, XX (1934), 104–105, 108–111,
                            138–139, 171–172.
                  
                     60 Jonathan Jennings, to Samuel Manwarring, 
                                Washington
                            , January 22, 1811, in Esarey, Messages and Letters of William
                                Henry Harrison, I, 501^503; Annals of Congress, 11 Cong., 3
                            Sess.. 453, 508, 787; Annals of Congress, 12 Cong., 1 Sess., 846, 1248;
                            and Goebel, William Henry Harrison, in Indiana Historical Collections, XIV, 61–65, 85–88.
               
                     improperly in elections.61 When Harrison
                    vetoed a bill to move the capital from 
                        Vincennes
                    , the people of 
                        Jefferson County
                     petitioned that the veto power be taken from him.62
            
            Congress, in response to the wishes of the petitioners, extended the franchise to free white adult
                    males who paid taxes, and made ineligible to seats in the territorial legislature the officers
                    appointed by Harrison except the justices of the peace and the officers of the militia.63 Jennings was re-elected in April, 1811, again defeating Thomas 
                        Randolph
                    , in fact he served for the remainder of the territorial period. The territorial
                    legislature transferred the conduct of the elections from the sheriffs to the judges of the court of
                    common pleas, provided that polls be opened in each township in contrast to one in each county, and
                    changed the method of voting from viva voce to written ballots.64 It is quite possible that the change in the number of polling places enfranchised more
                    persons than the Congressional act extending the right of suffrage. The seat of government was soon
                    moved from 
                        Vincennes
                     to Corydon where the governor's political friends were much less numerous.
                    This measure, however, was not so important as the broadening of the franchise and the election law.
            The advance to the second territorial stage of semi-representative government, the division of the
                    territory, the election of delegates to Congress who were representatives of the opposition, the
                    winning of control of the territorial legislature, the repeal of the acts which encouraged the
                    violation of the prohibition of slavery, the extension of the franchise, the democratization of the
                    territorial government, and the subduing of Harrison and his more aggressive supporters constituted
                    a democratic victory of significant proportions. In a very real sense the democratic forces won
                    their victory in the territorial period in contrast to the earlier territories in the Ohio
                        Valley where the popular advance came when state constitutions were adopted. Only the
                        
                  
                     61 Carter, The Territorial Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                     , VIII, The Territory of Indiana,
                            1810–1816 (1939), 142–147.
                  
                     62 Address to Congress by Citizens of 
                                Jefferson County
                             [December 27, 1811]," in ibid.,
                            VIII, 154–156.
                  
                     63
                            Annals of Congress, 11 Cong., 3 Sess., 1347–1348; 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, II, 659–660.
                  
                     64 Ewbank and Riker, The Laws of Indiana Territory,
                                1809–1816, in Indiana Historical Collections, XX,
                            225–236.
               
                     election of the executive, the escape from Congressional
                    supervision of local affairs, and full participation in national affairs, all of which could be
                    secured only when the territory became a state, remained to be won. In Indiana Territory the popular
                    victory was complete except for these. The people had gone as far as they could in creating a
                    democratic government, the final step would complete the victory. That step was statehood.
         
         
         
            Settlement of the Whitewater Valley, 1790–1810
            
                    Chelsea L. Lawlis
                
            An account of a journey through the Whitewater Valley which was made almost ten years before the
                    formation of Indiana Territory has been written by Jacob Parkhurst, who visited the southern part of
                    the valley in the winter of 1790–1791 on a hunting expedition. After crossing the
                        Ohio River from Tanner's Station on the 
                        Kentucky
                     side by means of a canoe in an icy river, he described his trip, stating that there
                    were no white settlers in the vicinity: 
                        We then took a course across the hilly country, towards where 
                                Brookville
                             now stands, and camped out in the snow and frost. As there was a tracking snow,
                            and cold weather, we killed one deer, which supplied us for meat. The next day we struck
                            White Water, and followed down to where it enters the Miami, which brought night upon
                            us–as there was no white inhabitants west of the Miami, we struck fire, but soon found that the trees in the bottom were abounding with turkeys
                            and the moon was about the full. …1
                  
                    
            
            Nearly a year later, on October 11, 1791, Ebenezer Denney of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , an officer in St. Clair's army, probably referred to the upper portion of the
                    Whitewater Valley when he wrote that the country was "very level, well watered and
                        timbered."2
            
            No portion of the Whitewater Valley was won from the Indians until Anthony 
                        Wayne
                     defeated them at Fallen Timbers in 1794. This battle was followed on August 3, 1795, by
                    the Treaty of Greenville (
                        Ohio
                    ) by which, in addition to other tracts, the following strip was ceded to the 
                        United States
                    ; territory bounded by a line running northeast from the point opposite the place where
                    the Kentucky River empties into the 
                        Ohio
                     to Fort Recovery, bounded on the east by a line drawn due north from the mouth of the
                    Great Miami River and intersecting the previous line near Fort Recovery, and on the south by the
                        Ohio River. This triangular section was not specifically mentioned in the
                    treaty, yet it may be roughly considered as the Whitewater Valley at that time.3
                    It remained a part of the Northwest Territory until 1802.
            While the recently acquired land was not offered for sale until 1801 at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , squatters had already entered the 
                  
                     1 Jacob Parkhurst, Sketches of the Life and Adventures of
                                Jacob Parkhurst … [
                                Knightstown
                            , Indiana, 1893], 21–22.
                  
                     2
                            Military Journal of Major Ebenezer Denny . . . (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1859), 155.
                  
                     3
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large,
                            VII, 49.
               
                     territory in large numbers. In a letter written from 
                        Cincinnati
                    , January 8, 1798, Winthrop Sargent told Timothy Pickering, Secretary of State, of the
                    great increase in the number of intruders upon 
                        United States
                     lands. According to Sargent, there were nearly two hundred families just over the Great
                    Miami. Many of them had fled to that place to escape from their creditors. Sargent indicated that
                    these settlers were cutting and wasting timber.4
            
            A year later a petition was presented to Congress by the people who had settled on public lands lying
                    below the mouth of the Great Miami between that river and the Greenville Treaty line. They
                    complained of having their horses stolen by the Indians since the beginning of the recent Indian
                    war. Many had been disappointed in getting land in 
                        Kentucky
                    . The settlers asked permission to purchase the land on which they had settled, in
                    quarter sections if possible.5
            
            We learn from the diary of three Moravian missionaries that by the spring of 1801 the settlers had
                    advanced further up the valley. Entering the Whitewater River' from the Great Miami, they said of
                    the inhabitants, whom they found six miles up the Whitewater: "They told us the Indians buy
                    all their cattle from them and that they are frequently about here. …" Most of
                    the inhabitants seem to have migrated from 
                        Kentucky
                     and had already become engaged in agricultural pursuits. "Almost every mile
                    there are farms, the owners of which have nearly all moved here from 
                        Kentucky
                    . In the evening we came to an Irishman by the name of Harper. He is a good, old man and
                    seems to be an active Presbyterian."6
            
            The forks of the' Whitewater, the present site of 
                        Brookville
                    , provided a place for a large Indian campground, and they camped with them for a
                        while.7
            
            When Indiana became a separate territory in 1800, the "Gore," the triangular strip
                    referred to earlier, was not included in the territory. Not until the 
                        Ohio
                     Enabling Act was passed, April 30, 1802, did the "Gore" settlers
                    become 
                  
                     4 Clarence E. Carter (comp. and ed.), The Territorial
                                Papers of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington
                            , 1834- ), III, The Territory Northwest of the River 
                                    Ohio
                                , 1787–1803, p. 497. Winthrop Sargent was Secretary of the
                            Northwest Territory.
                  
                     5
                     Ibid., III, 49–52.
                  
                     6 "Diary of the Journey of Br. and Sr. Kluge and Br.
                            Lucken-bach from 
                                Goshen
                             on the Muskingum to White River, March 24 to May 25,
                            1801," in Lawrence H. Gipson (ed.), The Moravian Indian Mission on
                                    White River … 1799, to … 1806,
                            Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1916- ), XXIII (1938), 82–83.
                  
                     7
                     Ibid., 86.
               
                    
                    
                  
                            The Whitewater Valley, 1790–1810
                        
               
                     citizens of Indiana Territory. This act placed them under the
                    jurisdiction of 
                        Clark County
                     and since the seat of government proved to be too far away, the
                    "Gore" was formed into 
                        Dearborn County,
                     March 7, 1803.8
            
            William H. Harrison proclaimed the formation of 
                        Dearborn County
                     on the aforementioned date: 
                        
                     Whereas, I have received a petition from a number of citizens, inhabiting
                            the south-east corner of the territory, stating the inconveniences they labor under for the
                            want of a county establishment in that quarter, and praying that a new county be laid off.
                        And whereas, I have received satisfactory evidence that there are a
                            sufficient number of inhabitants within the proposed limits to justify a compliance with
                            their request. I have thought proper to erect into a separate county all the lands lying and
                            being within the following lands and lines and bounds, viz. Beginning at the mouth of the
                            Great Miami thence north along the line separating the Indiana Territory from the state of 
                                Ohio
                            , to the intersection thereof with the Indiana boundary line running from a
                            point opposite the mouth of the Kentucky River, thence, along the last
                            mentioned line to the Ohio River and up the said river to the place of
                            beginning; and the said county shall be known as … [the] county of 
                                Dearborn
                            . …9
                  
                    
            
            
               
                        Lawrenceburg
                     was selected as the county seat and proved to be more conveniently located than the
                    previous one, even though it was still a considerable distance from the northern part of the
                        county.10
            
            Logan Esarey pictures some of the early settlers as hunters in search of more plentiful game. Not
                    even, the presence of Indians was enough to deter their onward march.
            
                    There was no waiting for Indians to become quiet, no waiting for roads to be built, no waiting
                        until the government had built stockades, or sent troops to furnish adequate protection. As game
                        became scarce in the woods of 
                            Kentucky
                         and 
                            Ohio
                        , the hunters crossed into Indiana. When they found suitable locations, they became
                        squatters. When the land office opened in the neighborhood, they became settlers, and when a few
                        more joined them, a government was organized and they became citizens.11
               
                
            John Conner, the founder of 
                        Connersville
                    , opened a store about three-quarters of a mile above Big Cedar Grove Creek in 1803,
                    near the present site of Cedar Grove. Conner had 
                  
                     8
                            Annals of Congress, 7 Cong., 1 Sess., Appendix, 1349–1351;
                            William Wesley Woollen, et al (eds.), "Executive Journal of
                            Indiana Territory, 1800–1816," in Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1895- ), III (1900), 116; Logan Esarey, History of
                                Indiana ... (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1915, 1918), I, 159.
                  
                     9 Logan Esarey (ed.), Messages and Letters of William
                                Henry Harrison (2 vols., Indiana Historical Collections, VII and
                            IX, 1922),. I, 84–85.
                  
                     10 Ibid., 85.
                  
                     11 Esarey, History of Indiana, I, 205.
               
                     a reputation as an Indian trader and was always desirous of
                    being on the frontier in order that he might be in an advantageous position to pursue his Indian
                        trade.12
            
            The first land entry within the present limits of 
                  Fayette,
                            Franklin
               , Union, and 
                        Wayne
                     counties was made in what is now Whitewater Township, 
                        Franklin County
                    , in May, 1803, by Benjamin McCarty. Eight months later, on January 15, 1804, Robert
                    Green purchased land in 
                        Fairfield
                     Township.13
            
            The "Carolina Settlement" which was composed of a group of people from Laurens, 
                        South Carolina
                    , was located in what is now northern 
                        Franklin County
                     and Union County. Between 1801 and 1804, these people lived near Harrison, 
                        Ohio
                    , and explored the new land while it was being surveyed for the 
                        Wayne
                     Purchase. They blazed a trail to the Whitewater Valley, known as the "Carolina
                    Trace," in 1804. They built nine cabins along the East Fork of the Whitewater River
                    extending from 
                        Fairfield
                     Township, in 
                        Franklin County
                     to Harmony and Liberty townships in Union County.
            The group was composed of the families of Robert Hanna, Sr., John Templeton, George Leviston, William
                    Logan, John Hanna, Robert Templeton, Sr., John Logan, Joseph Hanna, John Ewing, and Robert Swann. It
                    is not known whether or not they emigrated as a group from 
                        South Carolina
                    , but they probably did not. Swann and Leviston may not have settled this early. The
                    Templetons and the Hannas were related and emigrated together from 
                        South Carolina
                     in 1801. John Templeton was a native of 
                        Ireland
                     and had come to America as a small boy. George Leviston was also born in 
                        Ireland
                    . Joseph Hanna and John Templeton made the first actual land entries within the present
                    limits of Union County, September 24, 1804.14
            
            Land was first purchased in what is now 
                        Brookville
                     Township, 
                        Franklin County
                    , by Robert Templeton, September 24, 1804, but he was not the first to build. In the
                    following month John Remy entered land within the present limits of 
                        Springfield
                     Township. The first settler of 
                        Brookville
                     was 
                  
                     12 Charles N. Thompson, Sons of the Wilderness. John and
                                William Conner, in Indiana Historical Society Publications, XII
                            (1937), 47–50; Indiana Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1905- ), I, note page 11.
                  
                     13 August J. Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1915), 128, 156; Atlas of 
                                    Franklin
                                 Co., Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882), 92, 100.
                  
                     14 Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana, 156-159; Atlas of 
                                    Franklin
                                 Co., Indiana, 100; Atlas of Union County, Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884), 6.
               
                     Amos 
                        Butler
                    , a young 
                        Quaker
                     from 
                        Chester County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and the grandfather of Amos W. 
                        Butler
                    , who came to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     in 1803. Selecting some bottom land near Eliz-abethtown, he returned the next spring,
                    only to find it covered with water. He made his way up the Indian trail along the Whitewater River
                    to the present site of 
                        Brookville
                    . He was so pleased with the region that he entered a quarter of a section at the land
                    office at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , December 4, 1804. It is interesting to note that 
                        Butler
                     brought his wife by keel-boat to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , and from there to 
                        Brookville
                     on horseback. Jesse Brooks Thomas was another early settler, entering land July 3,
                    1805. 
                        Butler
                     built a sawmill and a gristmill, bringing the millirons and stones from 
                        Cincinnati
                     on pack horse. John Allen, a 
                        Quaker
                    , started a mill about the same time as 
                        Butler
                    . Trouble with the Indians, however, retarded settlement.15
            
            Allen Wiley, a Virginian and pioneer Methodist minister in southeastern Indiana, migrated from 
                        Kentucky
                     to Indiana in 1804 and settled about three miles above the present site of Harrison. He
                    described that area as being "somewhat densely settled" to a point six or seven
                    miles above where the Whitewater leaves Indiana and enters 
                        Ohio
                    . He characterized the settlers in the following words: "The first settlers in
                    the White Water bottoms (for few settled elsewhere) were in many respects a charming people. When I
                    became acquainted with them in 1804, they were generally a sober, industrious, harmless, and
                    kind-hearted people." Wiley also stated that most of the settlers were able to make only
                    the one-fourth cash payment on their land and that many could not meet the remaining payments within
                    the allotted four years, so they had to sell and buy a tract of land farther in the wilderness.16
            
            In spite of the presence of Indians and other hardships imposed by the wilderness, the lower and
                    central Whitewater Valley continued to fill up during the year 1805. In what is now 
                        Bath
                     Township, 
                        Franklin County
                    , land was entered in that year. Further up the Valley, within the present limits of
                    Union County, the first land purchases were made in what are now Center and Union townships. In
                    Union Township 
                  
                     15 Reifel, History of 
                                    Franklin County
                                , Indiana, 113, 143, 194, 195–196; Amos W. 
                                Butler
                            , "Notes Concerning' 
                                Brookville
                            , Ind., A Century Ago," Indiana Magazine of History,
                            XIII (1917), 146–150; Amos W. 
                                Butler
                            , "The Beginnings of 
                                Brookville
                            ," Indiana Magazine of History, I, 209.
                  
                     16 Allen Wiley, "Methodism in Southeastern Indiana,"
                                Indiana Magazine of History, XXIII (1927), 5, 10–11.
               
                     the emigrants came from 
                        Virginia
                    , the Carolinas, 
                        New Jersey
                    , and 
                        Maryland
                    , the majority emigrating from 
                        New Jersey
                     and the Carolinas. Among the settlers were John Miller, from 
                        Franklin County
                    , 
                        Virginia
                    , Abraham Darst, and Christian Kingery, also Virginians.17
            
            During the same year, 
                        Wayne County
                     attracted its first settlers in the person of George Holman and Richard Rue of 
                        Kentucky
                    . Holman and Rue selected their sites about two miles below the present site of 
                        Richmond
                     early in 1804 and returned early in the next winter to erect cabins and bring their
                    tools and cooking utensils. Leaving their sons behind, they returned to 
                        Kentucky
                    , where they met two Pennsylvanians, Thomas McCoy and a Mr. Blount. All four of these
                    men returned to the 
                        Wayne County
                     site and brought their families and equipment on pack horses since wagon travel was
                    impractical. McCoy and Blount settled near the others. This group of settlers comprised the 
                        Kentucky
                     settlement.18
            
            Nearby, on Elkhorn Creek, the Coxes and Endsleys settled in the same year. Soon Lazarus Whitehead, a
                    Baptist minister, Aaron Martin, and Charles Hunt arrived with their families.19
            
            Hugh Cull, a Methodist minister, who was born in Havre de Grace, 
                        Maryland
                    , settled in what is now 
                        Boston
                     Township. At the age of four he came to 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and in 1777 he moved to the present site of 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               .20
            
            An event which transpired in 1805 was to reduce further the Indian lands and open them for white
                    settlers. This was the Treaty of Grouseland, which was signed at Grouseland, near 
                        Vincennes
                    , August 21, 1805. By the terms of this treaty the Indians ceded the southeastern
                    portion of Indiana lying between the 
                        Vincennes
                     Tract and the Greenville Treaty line. Parts of Ray, 
                  Butler, Highland
               , and 
                        Brookville
                     townships in 
                        Franklin County
                     were affected by its terms.21
            
            
               
                  17 Reifel, History of 
                                Franklin County
                            , Indiana, 117; Atlas of Union County, Indiana, 38.
               
                  18 Interstate Publishing Co., History of 
                                Wayne County,
                             Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1884), I, 354–355; Andrew W. Young, History of 
                                Wayne County
                             , Indiana (
                     Cincinnati,
                                Ohio
                  , 1872), 27, 343–345.
               
                  19 Interstate Publishing Co., History of 
                                Wayne County
                             , Indiana, I, 355; Young, History of 
                                Wayne County
                             , Indiana, 27–28.
               
                  20 John D. Barnhart, "The Southern Influence in the Formation of
                        Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XXXIII (1937), 266, note 32;
                        Young, History of 
                                Wayne County
                             , Indiana, 159; Interstate Publishing Co., History of 
                                Wayne County
                             , Indiana, I, 355.
               
                  21 "The said Miami, Eel river, and Wea tribes, cede and
                        relinquish to the 
                            United States
                        , forever, all that tract of country which lies to
            
            
            Accounts of migration during the year 1806 and afterwards are numerous due to the fact that the
                    Quakers, who were the largest single body to migrate in this and succeeding years, were farsighted
                    enough to record their movements and activities. Before considering 
                        Wayne County
                     , about which the majority of accounts were written, a word should be said about the
                    progress of migration in what is now Union County. 
                        Brownsville
                     Township was settled in this year, chiefly by people from the Carolinas, 
                        Tennessee
                    , 
                        Kentucky
                    , and 
                        Virginia
                    , the Carolina immigrants predominating. The first settlers were Henry Miller and Adam
                    Eli of 
                        Virginia
                    . To Harmony Township came Alexander Dubois, Isaac Dubois, and William Dubois from 
                        New Jersey
                     in 1806. Their arrival was referred to as the Dubois immigration. Harrison Township was
                    settled in the same year by Carolinians.22
            
            Thomas Bulla selected a site in 
                        Wayne County
                     in 1805 but did not enter it until March 7, 1806, at 
                        Cincinnati
                    . He was born in 
                        Chester County
                    , 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , April 19, 1780, and migrated with his father to 
                        Randolph County
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    , during the Revolutionary war. After living in that state for a few years, he migrated
                    and described his journey westward in the following words: 
                        I lived in that county a few years, when I left with my family in a two-horse wagon, to move
                            to the West on the 11th day of September, 1804; and on that day four weeks [later] crossed
                            the Ohio River and landed at 
                                Cincinnati
                            , where I saw but three brick houses at that time. When I landed on the [other]
                            side of the 
                                Ohio
                            , I had but twenty dollars to support my family, consisting of a wife and two
                            children, during the winter. On the day following I got to my journey's end (for
                            that time) in the settlement of 
                        Germantown,
                                    Ohio
                     , where my wife's
                            father, mother, brothers and sisters lived.
                    
            
            Bulla went on to say that they picked out land in 1805 and entered it on March 7, 1806, at 
                        Cincinnati
                    . His wife died in September, but he moved to his new land during the following
                        winter.23
            
            
                the south of a line to be drawn from the northeast corner of a tract ceded by the treaty of
                        fort 
                            Wayne
                        , so as to strike the general boundary line, running from a point opposite to the
                        mouth of the 
                            Kentucky
                         river to fort Recovery, at the distance of fifty miles from its commencement on the
                            Ohio River." Treaties between the 
                                United States
                             of America and the several Indian Tribes, from 1778–1837 (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1837), 118–121, see 118–119; 
                     
                                United States
                             Statutes at Large, VII, 91–92; Reifel, History of 
                                Franklin County
                            , Indiana, 77.
               
                  22
                        Atlas of Union County, Indiana, 47, 58–59.
               
                  23 Thomas Bulla, 
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana, to the Editors of 
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana, Palladium, February 21, 1856. The letter appeared in
                        the issue dated March 13, 1856. A typewritten copy of the letter is in the William Henry Smith
                        Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana.
            
            
            Smith Hunt, who, with his father and three brothers, settled in the Whitewater Valley in March, 1806,
                    stated that he found an indistinct road from Clermont County, 
                        Ohio
                     (his point of departure), to Fairhaven. From there to Elk-horn, however, they found it
                    necessary to cut out a road for their teams. Hunt gives an idea of the speed with which cabins were
                    erected in those days. "On the evening of our arrival we cut a board tree–the
                    next day we cut the logs, hauled them, raised a cabin 16 by 18 feet, made the clap boards, covered
                    our cabin, and moved into it that evening." The cabin completed, they cleared five acres of
                    land and planted a crop of corn. The next achievement was to build a mill, which was ready for use
                    in August.24
            
            David Hoover and four others traveled from 
                        Ohio
                     to inspect the Whitewater in search of a suitable place in which to live in February,
                    1806. Hoover was born in 
                        Randolph County
                    , 
                        North Carolina
                    , in 1781. His grandfather, Andreas Huber, was a 
                        German
                     immigrant who landed at 
                        Philadelphia
                     on September 9, 1738, settled in 
                        Maryland
                     in 1740, and emigrated from there to 
                        North Carolina
                    . David's father, Andrew Hoover, and five of his brothers set out on horseback
                    to inspect the Northwest Territory. They crossed the Blue Ridge, went down the Kanawha to the 
                        Ohio
                    , crossed that river, thence to 
                        Chillicothe
                    , and from there to Waynesville. After examining the country, they recrossed the 
                        Ohio
                     at 
                        Cincinnati
                    , went on to 
                        Lexington
                    , thence to Crab Orchard, through 
                        Cumberland
                     Gap, and on to 
                        Randolph County
                    . The brothers returned to 
                        Ohio
                     the following year. Andrew, however, did not bring his family until 1802. David
                    Hoover's memoir relates that they set out in a wagon for the Northwest Territory and
                    reached 
                        Cincinnati
                    –"then a mere village"—in five weeks. They
                    proceeded to Stillwater, twelve miles north of 
                        Dayton
                    . After failing to find suitable lands in 
                        Ohio
                    , they set out for Indiana in the spring of 1806.25
            
            When David and his companions left their home in 
                        Ohio
                    , they traced a section line about eight or ten miles north of 
                        Dayton
                     through an unbroken forest for more than thirty 
                  
                     24
                            
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, Palladium,, October 18, 1855. A typewritten copy is
                            in the William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     25I. Daniel Rupp, A Collection of Upwards of Thirty
                                Thousand Names of 
                                    German
                                , Swiss, Dutch, French and other Immigrants in 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 from 1727 to 1776 … (
                                Philadelphia
                            , n.d.), 118; Grace Julian Clarke, "Andrew Hoover Comes to
                            Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XXIV (1928),
                            223–229; "Memoir of David Hoover," in Henry 
                                Clay
                             Fox, Memoirs of 
                                    Wayne County
                                 and the City of 
                                    Richmond
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                        Madison, Wisconsin
                     ,
                            1912), I, 541–543.
               
                     miles to the present site of 
                        Richmond
                    . With the exception of Richard Rue, George Holman, Thomas McCoy and a few-others, there
                    were very few settlers within twenty miles of the present site of 
                        Richmond
                    . They selected a site, returned to 
                        Ohio
                     and came back about three weeks later. David and his men are supposed to be the first
                    white explorers of the territory north of 
                        Richmond
                    . The land in and about 
                        Richmond
                     was settled chiefly by Friends from 
                        North Carolina
                     and by others who went from there to 
                        Ohio
                     for a brief stay. The things which attracted the men were: pure spring water,
                    prospective mill sites, large quarries of limestone, and rich soil. In May or June, 1806, Andrew
                    Hoover entered several quarter sections. During the summer, John Smith built a cabin on the south
                    side of what is now Main Street, 
                        Richmond
                    , and Jeremiah Cox entered a quarter section north of Main Street.26
            
            Hoover stated that from this time on (1806) immigration was rapid. Cabins went up quickly. The East
                    Fork of the Whitewater was settled chiefly by people from 
                        Kentucky
                    , among whom were the Wassons, Maxwells, Flemings, and Irelands. Near the mouth of the
                    Elkhorn were the Endsleys, Hunts, Whiteheads, and others.27
            
            Jeremiah Cox, Jr., stated that his father's family was the first family of Friends in what
                    is now 
                        Wayne County
                     . At the opening of the first meeting in 1807, there were 265 Friends in the Whitewater
                    Valley. This meeting was held in Cox's rude blacksmith shop. William Williams, an itinerant 
                        Quaker
                     minister, visited the Cox home at Whitewater, July 15, 1807, and described the
                    settlement and the state of religion: 
                        This was a new settlement, where a few families of Friends who live together, have requested
                            a meeting: had a meeting there next day. This was a time of deep travail of soul, and large
                            gospel service: some in this place being too whole in their minds, to know that they have
                            need of a physician to heal them.28
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  26 David Hoover to Charles F. Coffin, October 20, 1855. A typewritten copy
                        of this letter is in the William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana; Clarke, "Andrew Hoover Comes to Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XXIV, 230–231; Fox, Memoirs of 
                                Wayne County
                             and the City of 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, I, 543–544; Interstate Publishing Co., History of 
                                Wayne County
                             , Indiana, I, 356–357; Young, History of 
                                Wayne County
                             , Indiana, 29.
               
                  27 David Hoover to Charles F. Coffin, October 20, 1855; Fox, Memoirs of 
                                Wayne County
                             and the City of 
                                Richmond
                            , Indiana, I, 545; Young, History of 
                                Wayne County
                             , Indiana, 30–31.
               
                  28 Letter of Jeremiah Cox, Jr., Middleborough, Indiana, dated February 27,
                        1856. A typewritten copy of this letter is in the William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the
                        Indiana Historical Society, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana; John Macamy Wasson, Annals of Pioneer Settlers of the
                            Whitewater … 1801,. to 1830 (
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana, 1875), 21; William Williams, Journal of the Life, Travels,
                            and Gospel Labours of William Williams … (
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
                  ,
                        1828), 40–41.
            
            
            The two principal reasons for the migration of the southern Friends appears to have been a desire for
                    economic betterment and opposition to slavery. Stephen Grellett, a famous 
                        Quaker
                     preacher, visited 
                        North Carolina
                     in 1800 and described conditions there. Many of the Friends in the 
                        Contentnea
                     Quarter were living on "poor, sandy, and unhealthy soil." Some from 
                        Core Sound
                     had migrated to 
                        Ohio
                     to try to find suitable places in which to live. Of slavery he said: "Another
                    great inducement to Friends to wish for a change of their residence, was the great sufferings of the
                    poor slaves around them." Continuing, he related the many obstacles to travel in his
                    journey to 
                        Tennessee
                    : 
                        ... a mountainous, unsettled country, having deep waters to ford, their being neither bridges
                            nor ferries over them. … When encamping during the night, which we did several
                            times, we kept up a good fire to protect us from the panthers, bears, and wolves. The latter
                            were numerous .… We travelled slowly on account of the difficulties of the roads;
                            sometimes they were so steep, that with our empty carriage, the horses
                            could get only a few steps forward at once. Frequently, indeed, we had to open a road by
                            cutting down the trees and removing them out of the way.29
                  
                    
            
            The opening of the Wilderness Eoad and 
                        Boone
                    's previous passage through the 
                        Cumberland
                     Gap (1775) opened a gateway for travel to the Northwest. The 
                        Quaker
                     migration was a part of the westward movement. Provisions of the Northwest Ordinance
                    were attractive to the Friends. The Miami Monthly Meeting as organized in 1803, and Quakers in
                    Indiana were later under it. Between 1803 and 1807, there were four hundred removal certificates
                    transferring 1,826 memberships to it. Another factor which alienated the Quakers and drove them to
                    the Northwest was the proslavery features of 
                        Tennessee
                    's constitution of 1796 and 
                        Kentucky
                    's of 1799.30
            
            Julia 
                        Henderson
                     Levering described the Quakers migrating to escape slavery, forming meetings, and
                    establishing schools for their children:
            
               
                  29 Stephen Grellett, Memoirs of the Life and Gospel Labors of
                            Stephen Grellett (
                            Philadelphia
                        , n.d.), 64, 67.
               
                  30 Harlow Lindley, "The Quakers in the Old Northwest,"
                            Proceedings of the Mississippi Valley Historical
                            Association (Cedar Rapids, 
                            Iowa
                        , 1907- ), V (1912), 63–65.
            
            
            
                    Owing to their disapproval of slavery, many of the early settlers from the Carolinas, who came
                        into the free State of Indiana, were Quakers. Wherever this peace-loving people formed a
                        settlement, they immediately established a "meeting," and at the same time, a
                        school for the instruction of their youth. The southeastern part of the state, particularly,
                        felt the high moral influence of the Friends, in the development of social conditions. Their
                        churches and schools were a controlling, repressing, quieting elevating influence, over the
                        boisterous element of the frontier.31
               
                
            As slavery became increasingly important in the economy and social life of the South after the cotton
                    gin was introduced, laws were passed which put Friends in a position where it was difficult to free
                    their slaves and likewise made it difficult for slaves to retain their freedom. The 
                        Quaker
                     soon found himself in an untenable position.
            
                    Friends came to be looked upon by their slave-holding neighbors as an alien and hostile influence
                        in their social system. It became more and more difficult for them to support themselves in a
                        slave-holding society, which put a social stigma upon manual labor; and to bring up their
                        children according to their principles in such an environment.32
               
                
            Exhaustion of the soil continued to be an important factor in migration in 
                        Maryland
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     just as it had been in past years. Faulty agricultural methods had resulted in such a
                    depletion of the soil that it was not profitable for the farmer to remain on his land. A factor
                    which brought a loss to the parent state and worked to the advantage of the state to which he
                    migrated was the fact that it was often the most ambitious and energetic men who migrated to the
                    West. Migration resulting from this cause decreased in the decade 1800–1810, but
                    increased greatly after the War of 1812.33
            
            The Whitewater Valley's proximity to 
                        Ohio
                     made it easily accessible to settlers from that region. Many settlers migrated first to 
                        Ohio
                    , then came to Indiana later. The Ohio River was utilized as a
                    route of travel, even before the days of the steamboat. It has been noted that Amos 
                        Butler
                    , the founder of 
                        Brookville
                    , brought his wife from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     in a keelboat and from there on horseback to 
                        Brookville
                    .34
            
            
               
                  31 Julia 
                            Henderson
                         Levering, Historic Indiana (
                            New York
                        , 1916), 170.
               
                  32 Elbert Russell, The History of Quakerism (
                            New York
                        , 1942), 272.
               
                  33 Avery O. Craven, "Soil Exhaustion as a Factor in the
                        Agricultural History of 
                            Virginia
                         and 
                            Maryland
                        , 1606–1860," University of 
                            Illinois
                        
                        Studies in the Social Sciences (
                     Urbana, Illinois
                  , 1912- ),
                        XIII (1925), 118–120.
               
                  34
                        
                            Butler
                        , "Notes Concerning 
                            Brookville
                        , Ind., A Century Ago," Indiana Magazine of History,
                        XIII, 147.
            
            
            There were three main routes of travel used by settlers emigrating from the Southern states,
                    especially the Caro-linas and 
                        Virginia
                    . One route was the 
                        Kentucky
                     Road, which led through the Blue Ridge at Ward's Gap, crossed New River, near
                    Wythe Court House, 
                        Virginia
                    , thence by way of Abingdon, along 
                        Boone
                    's Wilderness Road through 
                        Cumberland
                     Gap, and across 
                        Kentucky
                     to 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Those who followed the Kanawha Road, traveled across the Dan River, by Patrick Court
                    House, 
                        Virginia
                    , to Markey's Gap in the Blue Ridge Mountains, thence across Clinch Mountain,
                    by way of Parke's Ferry on New River, thence over White Oak Mountain, by way of the Kanawha
                    River; and down that river to the 
                        Ohio
                    , crossing at Gallipolis. Another approach to this road was by way of the 
                        Virginia
                     turnpike, which had been built westward from 
                        Richmond
                     and which joined the older route along the Kanawha. This was known as the Magadee Route
                    and as a favorite from 1810 until the era of the railroads. Those settlers emigrating from eastern 
                        North Carolina
                     sometimes went direct to 
                        Richmond
                    , while others struck the pike at Lynchburg or Fincastle, while still others would turn
                    off the pike at 
                        Lewisburg
                    , travel by a second pike route to 
                        Wheeling
                     and cross the Ohio River there. It is estimated that as many used
                    this route as all the others.35
            
            Edward Bond followed the 
                        Kentucky
                     Road when he journeyed on horseback from near Winston-
                  Salem, North
                    Carolina
               , to visit his sons in July and August, 1809. He passed through 
                        Salem
                    , proceeded to the Blue Ridge Mountains, crossed the New River, thence to Abingdon,
                    crossed the Hol-ston River and Clinch Mountain, ferried the Clinch and Powell rivers, passed through 
                        Cumberland
                     Gap, went by way of 
                  Richmond,
                            Lexington
               , and 
                        Georgetown
                     to Big Eagle Creek, near the Ohio River. He ferried the river at 
                        Cincinnati
                     and went the remainder of the distance overland to Whitewater, where his sons lived.
                    The trip required twenty days and cost eight dollars and seventy cents.36
            
            The newcomer to the Whitewater Valley during the first decade of settlement enjoyed few conveniences
                    when it came to traveling. Even the poorest type of road was not common. One of the earliest routes
                    of travel was the Indian trail along 
                  
                     35 Stephen B. Weeks, Southern Quakers and Slavery, A
                                Study in Institutional History, in Johns Hopkins University Studies in
                                Historical and Political Science (
                        Baltimore, Maryland
                     ,
                            1883- ), Extra Vol. XV (1896), 246–248.
                  
                     36 Edward Bond Collection, Notebook, 45–55. A copy of this
                            notebook is in the William Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
               
                     the Whitewater River. It followed the river up to the forks and
                    then went along the East Fork to Eli Creek, from there it took a northwesterly direction, passing-
                    through what was later 
                        Connersville
                    , and then on to the 
                        Delaware
                     towns. Increased use made it a common highway in 1804 and 1805 especially between what
                    is now Cedar Grove and 
                        Fairfield
                    .37
            
            It has been pointed out that the "Carolina Colony" blazed a trace in 1804 from
                    their temporary home near Harrison, 
                        Ohio
                    , to the "Carolina Settlement." Smith Hunt's description of
                    roads has already been noted and will be described further elsewhere.38 Stephen
                    Grellett, who was in the Whitewater Valley in 1809, wrote of traveling "over bad roads, or
                    rather Indian paths, through an uninhabited country, from one settlement to another. One afternoon
                    we had not even an Indian path to direct our course."39
            
            One moderating influence upon the uncouthness and bois-terousness of the frontier was the pioneer
                    church. As soon as a few of the same denomination settled in a particular place, they held some sort
                    of service and effected an organization. The Baptists were the first to organize a church in the
                    Whitewater Valley. The first meetinghouse was probably built on Lee's Creek, a branch of
                    the Dry Fork of the Whitewater, and three miles east of Harrison about 1804. The next place of
                    worship was about a mile and a half above Johnson's Fork at Jacob Hackleman's
                    house in 1805 or 1806. Not long after this, in 1806, another church was organized three miles below 
                        Brookville
                    , near Little Cedar Grove Creek. This was the famous Little Cedar Grove Baptist Church.
                    Several of the inhabitants of the "
                        Kentucky
                     Settlement" were Baptists, and they soon organized a church. The
                    "Carolina Settlement" was composed of Baptists and Presbyterians, but it is not
                    likely that they had very early church organizations.40
            
            The Methodists were also one of the earliest religious groups to become active in the valley. Hugh
                    Cull, who later served as a local preacher, settled south of 
                        Richmond
                     in 1805. A few months later Arthur W. Elliot came from 
                        Hamilton
                    , 
                  
                     37 John L. Heineman, The Indian Trail Down the Whitewater
                                Valley (
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1915), 18–26.
                  
                     38 See ante pp. 27, 31, and post
                            p. 38.
                  
                     39 Grellett, Memoirs of the Life and Gospel Labors of
                                Stephen Grellett, 155.
                  
                     40 Wiley, "Methodism in Southeastern Indiana," Indiana Magazine of History, XXIII, 14–17. There is a legend to
                            the effect that a building was erected in 1812 as a result of a warning given by the great
                            earthquake which occurred in the Mississippi Valley in 1811.
               
                    
                    
                        Ohio
                    . The day after his arrival he delivered the first sermon ever heard in that region. He
                    organized a church of six members. Since the Whitewater Circuit is mentioned in the Journal of the Western Conference, 1800–1811, edited by William W. Sweet, for
                    the year 1806, one may assume that it was formed in that year. This Circuit embraced all the country
                    along the eastern line of the territory from the Ohio River north as far as
                    white settlements extended. Joseph Williams was the preacher in charge in 1808. The roads which he
                    traveled were mere Indian trails and newly blazed paths. One of the earliest, if not the first
                    Methodist meetinghouse to be erected in Indiana was built near what was later 
                        Salisbury
                     in 1808. Hezekiah Shaw of the 
                        Ohio
                     Conference in 1809 held services at the house of Eli Adams, two miles above 
                        Brookville
                    , which resulted in the formation of the first class organized within a radius of twenty
                    or thirty miles of 
                        Brookville
                    .41
            
            Fernandez C. Holliday, in his Indiana Methodism, visualized the early itinerant as
                    a man of faith and vision, laboring under almost impossible conditions.
            
                    The mode of travel was on horseback. The streams were un-bridged, and could often be crossed only
                        by swimming. The roads were mostly bridle-paths, "blazed," as the backwoodsmen
                        called it, by hatchet marks on the trees. The country was full of Indians, some of them
                        friendly, but many of them exasperated by the encroachments of the white men. Salaries were
                        scarcely thought of; they lived among the people, sharing their scanty, but cheerful
                        hospitality, encountering, perils in the wilderness, from floods and swamps and savage men,
                        often compelled to sleep in the woods. Their meeting-1 houses were the rude
                        cabins of the pioneers, where one room served as a kitchen, bed-room, and chapel. These were
                        lion-hearted men; they "endured as seeing Him who is invisible;" they saw that
                        these fertile valleys were to be seats of empire, that populous cities would rise on the margin
                        of these mighty rivers, that commerce would burden the navigable streams, knowing that they were
                        laying the foundations of Christian civilization that should bless uncounted millions in after
                            years.42
               
                
            As the population increased, Methodism kept abreast of the times.
            
                    The growth of Methodism was keeping even pace with that of 
                     
                        41 Fernandez C. Holliday, Indiana Methodism . .
                                . (
                           Cincinnati, Ohio
                        , 1873), 179–181; William W. Sweet
                                (ed.), The Rise of Methodism in the West being the Journal of the Western
                                    Conference, 1800–1811 (
                           Nashville, Tennessee
                        , 1920), 122; William C. Smith, Indiana
                                    Miscellany (
                           Cincinnati, Ohio
                        , 1867), 49–50, 65;
                                Keifel, History of 
                                        Franklin County
                                    , Indiana, 419; William W. Sweet, Circuit Rider Days
                                    in Indiana (
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana, 1916), 8.
                     
                        42 Holliday, Indiana Methodism,
                                27–28.
                  
                         the population. Every settlement and block-house was visited
                        by these bold itinerants, who did not scorn to preach in the bar-rooms of the taverns, in the
                        towns, in forts, in block-houses, and in the groves, as well as in the cabins of the early
                            settlers.43
               
                
            It has been pointed out that the first 
                        Quaker
                     meeting in the Whitewater Valley was held in Jeremiah Cox's blacksmith shop in
                    1807. During this same year a meetinghouse was erected. At the opening of the first meeting there
                    were 265 Quakers in the Whitewater Valley. William Williams stated that he conducted a meeting in
                    the vicinity in July, 1807.44
            
            Not much accurate information has been handed down about schools during this period, yet it is known
                    that the pioneer made honest attempts to educate his children. The first schools were either
                    voluntary ones taught by some public-spirited pioneer or subscription schools. In 
                        Wayne County
                     most of the early settlers were Southern Quakers who were intensely interested in
                    providing an education for their offspring. The first school was taught in 
                        Wayne County
                     by Joseph Cox in 1807. A second school was conducted by Isaac Julian in
                    1808–1809, southeast of 
                        Richmond
                    .45
            
            An idea of the progress of migration near the end of this period is given by Smith Hunt, a member of
                    the 
                        Kentucky
                     Settlement, who described that vicinity about 1809. "By this time there was
                    quite a number of new comers [who] had landed in our neighborhood, and the small strip of territory
                    [Greenville Treaty] was nearly all taken up–cabins were built all over the woods and
                    wherever a cabin was pat up, the string of the latch always hung on the outside."40
            
            Trading centers had not yet been established except on a very small scale and 
                        Cincinnati
                     was still the closest market. It was far from being easily accessible. Hunt related
                    that their surplus produce had to be hauled over an almost impassable mud road. Wheat was marketed
                    for 37 V2 cents a bushel and salt had to be purchased at three dollars a bushel. If there had been
                    taverns, the wagoners would have been too poor to put up at them, so they were forced to camp out on
                    the ground.47
            
            
               
                  43
                  'Ibid., 51–52.
               
                  44 Letter of Jeremiah Cox, Jr., Middleborough, Indiana, dated February 27,
                        1856; Williams, Journal of the Life, Travels, and Gospel Labours of William
                            Williams, 40–41.
               
                  45 Reifel, History of 
                                Franklin County
                            , Indiana, 370; Atlas of Union County, Indiana, 13;
                        Interstate Publishing Co., History of 
                                Wayne County
                             , Indiana, 463–464.
               
                  46
                        
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana, Palladium, October 18, 1855. 
               
                        47
                        Ibid.
                    
            
            
            Migration into the Valley and the subsequent filling up of available lands resulted in pressure being
                    brought to bear upon the government for further Indian cessions. On September 30, 1809, the Treaty
                    of Fort 
                        Wayne
                     was signed, ceding the following territory which affected the Whitewater Valley: 
                        That tract which shall be included between the following boundaries, viz: beginning at Fort
                            Recovery, thence southwardly along the general boundary line, established by the treaty of
                            Greenville; to its intersection with the boundary line established by the treaty of
                            Grouse-land; thence along said line to a point from which a line drawn parallel to the first
                            mentioned line will be twelve miles distant from the same, and along the said parallel line
                            to its intersection, with a line to be drawn from Fort Recovery, parallel to the line
                            established by the said treaty of Grouseland.48
                  
                    
            
            There is no accurate method of determining the population of the Whitewater Valley at the close of
                    this period. The federal census of 1810 stated that there we're 7,310 persons in 
                        Dearborn County
                     .40 This figure means little since the southern part of the
                    original 
                        Dearborn County
                     is not within the Whitewater Valley. Results, however, of an election for the General
                    Assembly held in 
                        Dearborn County
                     in 1809 may provide a rough method for determining the 1810 population."'0 Returns were made for the seven numbered townships of the county, and by
                    examining the names of the voters in each township it may be calculated that seventy-five per cent
                    of the voters lived in the region included in this study. Assuming that the election turnout was
                    about the same percentage to the 1810 census figure, a result of 5,500 persons is obtained. It must
                    be remembered that this figure is, at best, rough, but it will provide an idea of the extent of the
                    population of the region.
            An examination of the age groups of the 
                        Dearborn County
                     census of 1810 reveals some very interesting facts. These early settlements were beyond
                    a doubt made by young men and women. Seventy-four and four-tenths per cent of the white people were
                    twenty-five years of age or less and ninety-one and seven-tenths per cent were under forty-five.
                        
                  
                     48
                            
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, VII, 113–114; Treaties
                                between the 
                                    United States
                                 of America and the several Indian Tribes, from 1778 to 1837, p. 149.
                            This cession is commonly called the Twelve Mile Purchase.
                  
                     49
                            Third Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1810, p. 86.
                  
                     50 The original copy of the returns of the 
                                Dearborn County
                             election for the General Assembly, held April 3, 1809, is in the William Henry
                            Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana.
               
                     These figures prove conclusively that it was the young, hardy
                    individual who was the first to migrate.51
            
            The American frontiersmen seem to have discovered for themselves the Whitewater Valley while it still
                    belonged to the Indians. Very shortly after the Treaty of Greenville, the portion of territory
                    between the treaty line and the Miami Valley was occupied by squatters. Not until 1801 did the
                    federal government place any of the Whitewater land on sale. The year following, the eastern
                    boundary of Indiana Territory was moved eastward from the treaty line to a line drawn north from the
                    mouth of the Great Miami and Governor Harrison soon organized this new acquisition into 
                        Dearborn County
                     . Here came, John Conner, the Indian trader, the immigrants from 
                        South Carolina
                     who founded the Carolina Settlement, numerous Kentuckians, and many Quakers from 
                        North Carolina
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Although most of the settlers came from the South, they were largely from the
                    nonslaveholding class, .and many left that region in order to escape slavery. They formed a white
                    man's civilization, which they buttressed with schools and churches. Their economic life
                    tended to center in 
                        Cincinnati
                     towards which their main roads led. Most of the settlers probably came after the land
                    sales; began, and most of them were young in years. Although they were not more than five or six
                    thousand in number by 1810, they did not yield to the Indian menace which their acquisition of
                    additional land helped to stimulate, but on the contrary they founded one of the important districts
                    of Indiana Territory.
            
               
                  51
                        Third Census of the 
                                United States
                            , 1810, p. 86.
            
         
         
         
            Governor Goodrich and Indiana Tax Legislation1
            
            
                    Charles F. Remy
                
            In a people's government, it sometimes happens that a faithful and efficient public servant
                    does not receive from his constituents the full credit which is his due. On the contrary, and
                    because of peculiar circumstances or turn of events over which he has no control, he is by many
                    misunderstood, misrepresented and unjustly criticized. In point, is.the administration of James 
                        Putnam
                     Goodrich, governor of Indiana from January, 1917, to January, 1921. Goodrich was never
                    a man of many words, and throughout his life when criticized for an act or acts of his which he knew
                    to be right, he made no defense, and often no explanation. So, when there was any unjust criticism
                    of his administration as governor, he treated the matter as of little consequence.
            For some years, I have hoped that some contemporary of Goodrich, who knew the facts, would, in
                    justice of his memory, set them forth for the record. Since no one has done so, I have decided to do
                    it myself. I shall write in the first person, the reason for which will, I think, appear as I
                    proceed.
            My purpose in preparing this paper is not to write a biographical sketch, which, if well written,
                    would be interesting and worthwhile; nor is it my purpose to write a history of the administration
                    of Goodrich, though I may refer to some of his outstanding achievements as governor. The purpose I
                    have is twofold: the first is to present from my own knowledge the philosophy of politics and
                    government held by Goodrich. The second, and my primary purpose, is to assemble and make available
                    to the present generation and to future historians the plan and program of Goodrich as to taxation,
                    which he considered one of the most, if not the most, important problem facing him when he assumed
                    the governorship; how his plan and program were frustrated, and he was forced to abandon them, by
                    reason of which, and without any fault of his, he was by many misunderstood and unjustly criticized.
            My acquaintance with Goodrich began when we met in a Republican State Convention more than fifty
                    years ago; 
                  
                     1 This paper was read at the meeting of the Century Club, March,
                        1945.
               
                     that acquaintance ripened into a friendship which continued
                    until his death, August 15, 1940. The one thing he and I had in common through the years, was
                    Republican State politics. Each of us attended all Republican state conventions and other state
                    meetings of our party. For many years the Republicans had an annual meeting for a day during the
                    Christmas holidays in the old Denison Hotel. It was referred to as the Republican "Love
                    Feast." We missed none of these meetings. Goodrich was also active in the politics of his
                    county and congressional district, was elected Republican county chairman of his own county of 
                        Randolph
                     before he was old enough to vote, and several times was the Republican chairman of his
                    congressional district. He was chairman of the Republican State Committee from 1901 to 1910, and as
                    such had charge of the state conventions of 1902, 1904, 1906, and 1908. There were in 1902 and 1904
                    two active groups of Republicans each seeking places on the Republican state ticket, and when the
                    ticket was completed each group was well-represented. I have known no campaign in Indiana when the
                    Republicans were so well united as in 1904, when, under his leadership, the Republican majority for
                    president and for state officers was more than ninety thousand, with the women not voting.
            Each of the state conventions of which he had charge was a two-day convention. The first
                    day's session was for the keynote address, the adoption of the platform, and to give the
                    delegates an opportunity to meet and confer with the candidates. The second day's session
                    was for the nomination of candidates by the delegates, not, as in recent years, when a few so-called
                    leaders fix up a slate of candidates to be ratified by the delegates, with adjournment about four
                    o'clock in the afternoon of the convention day. Goodrich was opposed to the Tammany system of party
                    management, which is always control of the party by a faction in the interest of the faction. He
                    believed in government by the people, and he had not lost confidence in the ability of the people of
                    Indiana to govern themselves. He believed, therefore, that the rank and file of a political party
                    should have something to say as to the nomination of candidates. If his party, in its convention,
                    adopted a policy or nominated a leading candidate contrary to his view, he did not leave his party,
                    but, within his party, he sought to reconcile differences. He did  not seek or accept a political appointment while state chairman, nor did he claim the right, as
                    state chairman, to name deputies of state or other officers. To him it, was fundamental that a
                    deputy or assistant in a public office should be appointed by and answer to his superior, and not
                    answer to any party chief. Such was his philosophy of political-party management. It is my view that
                    only in that way can government by the people, as we have known it in America, be indefinitely
                    maintained. If political parties in cities, counties, and states are to fall into the hands of
                    dictators, then it must ultimately follow that the nation will finally have a dictator in 
                        Washington
                    .
            Each of the four times I was a candidate for the nomination of the Indiana Appellate Court Judge at a
                    state convention of my party, I had the active support of Goodrich. With his active support I could
                    not have been and was not defeated for the nomination. When Goodrich was a candidate for governor in
                    the state-wide primary of 1916, I gave him my support. By his arrangement I was to meet him at his
                    state headquarters at seven o'clock in the evening on a certain day in the week for several weeks
                    before the primary election. So methodical was he that not one time did he fail to appear at his
                    headquarters to meet me at the time fixed.
            When Goodrich was governor, I was not a member of his official family. During the last two years of
                    his administration, however, I was one of the judges of the Appellate Court, with offices in the
                    Statehouse, and, therefore, was very familiar with the work of his administration. During his term
                    as governor, he was usually the first state officer to arrive at the Statehouse. Much of the time he
                    was at his desk in the governor's office at seven o'clock in the morning, rarely did he
                    arrive as late as nine o'clock. He gave the best he had every day, every week, every month, and
                    every year of his four-year term. He was the twenty-eighth chief executive of the state. He came to
                    the office in the prime of life when he was fifty-one years of age, became fifty-two February 18,
                    after his inauguration. Few men who so served the state came so well-prepared as he. He had the
                    usual experience of a country or country-town boy, the work of a farm boy, the country school and
                    high school, and a country schoolteacher. Then he went to college, studied law,  and became a county seat lawyer, and a good one. His character and
                    ability at once gave him financial credit, and soon he turned much of his attention to business. In
                    business he could not fail, for he had all the elements of character which make for business
                    success–industry, thrift, determination, confidence in himself, and intuitive knowledge
                    of men, and a wide knowledge of business affairs. So successful was he in business, that he amassed
                    a comfortable fortune before he was elected governor. After retiring from the governorship, he
                    continued in business and his fortune was increased. Not so long before his death, and in response
                    to my inquiry as to what he was doing, he stated that he was giving away his money and property, and
                    that is just what he was doing. During his lifetime, he gave away to education and charity
                    approximately one million dollars.
            While he was governor, he came to know that the per capita cost of a college education in a state
                    supported school was approximately four times the cost of a similar education in the privately
                    endowed colleges of the state, and that each year about one-half of the Indiana young men and women
                    receiving a college education were educated in nonstate colleges at no expense to the state. This
                    fact was one of the reasons why he gave most of his fortune to privately endowed Indiana colleges.
            In the state-wide primary for governor, 1916, the nomination of Goodrich was at no time in doubt. His
                    opponents were 
                        Quincy
                     A. Myers and 
                        Warren
                     T. McCray. Myers had been a judge of the Indiana Supreme Court. McCray, who was
                    nominated and elected governor four years later, was a well-known farmer of large means who had been
                    active in farm organizations, including the State Fair. The primary campaign was for the most part a
                    campaign of organization, and the long experience of Goodrich in state politics and his fairness as
                    Republican state chairman were to his advantage, and he received about fifty thousand more votes
                    than both of his opponents. The fact that McCray was a farmer gave him support from that class, but
                    Goodrich was not without active farmer support. During the primary campaign, he addressed the State
                    Corn Growers' Association in which address he set forth the need for the revision of the Indiana tax
                    laws. He called attention to the fact, that, under the law as it then existed, there was
                    discrimination against the  farmer in that in listing his
                    property for taxation he was required to make a complete inventory of his livestock, grain, hay, and
                    other farm property, a method of listing not required of any other class of taxpayers. In his
                    discussion Goodrich called attention to a notable 
                        Washington
                     birthday address delivered by former President Harrison at the Union League Club, 
                        Chicago
                    , in 1898. The Harrison address, entitled "Duty of Rich People," was
                    an appeal for the fair and just taxation of the property of the rich or well-to-do citizens.
                    Goodrich, using some of the argument of Harrison, stated in substance, that the majority of the
                    people are lovers of justice and do not believe that poverty is a virtue or that property is a
                    crime; that it is not only wrong, but unsafe to discriminate in favor of or against any class in the
                    levy of taxes; and that equality is the golden thread which runs through the fabric of our American
                        civilization.2
            
            In his speech to the Indiana Corn Growers' Association, Goodrich called attention to the enormous
                    intangible wealth in the state which was escaping taxation and quoted Fred A. Sims, who at that time
                    was an eminent authority on taxation in Indiana, as having expressed the opinion that "the
                    actual value of sequestered personal property of Indiana is more than the total of all the assessed
                    values of the State.''3 In closing his address, Goodrich again quoted Harrison,
                    who paraphrasing the famous statement of 
                        Lincoln
                     as to slavery, stated that "this country cannot continue to exist half free
                    and half taxed."4
            
            An outline of the Goodrich address to the, Corn Growers' Association was printed in pamphlet form and
                    widely circulated; not only in the primary, but the general election campaign, and, in my opinion,
                    brought to Goodrich many independent votes, and the votes of some progressive-minded Democrats, but
                    the election in Indiana in 1916 was no walkover for the Republican party, which had been out of
                    power in the state for eight years. The candidacy of Goodrich was fortunate for the Republicans,
                    first, because his ability was not questioned; and second, because of his fairness to all party
                    factions or groups when he was the Republican state 
                  
                     2
                            
                        Chicago, Illinois
                     ; Record, February 23, 1898.
                  
                     3 James P. Goodrich, Present Taxation as it affects the
                                people of Indiana (n.p., n.d.), 9. The tax laws were discussed at the Corn Growers'
                            Association in LaGrange County, Indiana, October 7, 1915.
                  
                     4
                     Ibid., 2.
               
                     chairman. The nomination of Charles Evans Hughes, a well-known
                    liberal, for president that year, was helpful in uniting Indiana Republicans. Goodrich was elected
                    by a plurality of 12,771, which was approximately five thousand larger than the majority for the
                    national ticket. The Indiana Republicans also elected two 
                        United States
                     senators and a majority of the representatives to Congress.5 For
                    the victory much credit was properly given to the leadership of Goodrich and Will H. Hays, the
                    Republican state chairman at that time.
            Many problems of state face an Indiana governor following the inauguration for the four-year term. It
                    was especially true, January, 1917. Chief among the problems facing Goodrich at that time was the
                    problem of taxation, the chief source of which was to be found in the tax provision of the state
                    constitution, which was, and still is, as follows: "The General Assembly shall provide, by
                    law, for a uniform and equal rate of assessment and taxation, and shall prescribe such regulations
                    as shall secure a just valuation for taxation of all property. …"6
            
            Pursuant to this provision of the constitution, the General Assembly, soon after the adoption of the
                    constitution, enacted what was known as the general property tax statute. The constitution was
                    adopted in 1851, when the taxpayers, for the most part, from 
                        Steuben
                     to 
                        Posey County
                    , were farmers, home owners, and small-town shopkeepers. Under the circumstances, the
                    general property tax operated fairly well. But soon after the Civil War, there was rapid development
                    of financial, commercial and industrial institutions in all parts of the state, and a large amount
                    of wealth was accumulated and held by individuals and corporations. This vast wealth was largely in
                    intangible property, and much of it was escaping taxation. Furthermore, the people were demanding
                    more and more from the state, which demand had to be met by more and more taxes. Legislators began
                    to take notice, and in 1891 an act was passed creating the State Board of Tax Commissioners,7 which legislation was helpful but did not solve the problem.
            
               
                  5
                        Biennial Report of … Secretary of State of … Indiana for
                            … 1916, pp. 174–181.
               
                  6 Charles Kettleborough (ed.), Constitution Making in
                        Indiana (3 vols. Indiana Historical Collections, I, II, and XVII, 
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1916, 1930), I, 350.
               
                  7
                        Laws of the State of Indiana, 1891, p. 249.
            
            
            The first governor to attempt to do anything about this tax question was Thomas R. Marshall, who in
                    1911 caused the legislature to prepare and embody in one act what would have been a new and modern
                    constitution, with the provision that the same should, thereafter, be submitted to the people of the
                    state for ratification.8
            
            This act was at once attacked in court, and in the case of Ellingham v. Dye, the
                    Indiana Supreme Court in an opinion written by Judge Charles E. Cox, held that the act was
                    unconstitutional. In that opinion, however, the Supreme Court quoted with approval the following
                    paragraph from the text of John A. Jameson in A Treatise on Constitutional Conventions:
                    
                        Long-established usage has settled the principle that a general grant of legislative power
                            carries with it the authority to call conventions for the amendment, or revision of the
                            constitution; and even where the only method provided in the constitution for its own
                            modification is by legislative submission of amendments, the better doctrine seems to be
                            that such provision, unless in terms restrictive, is permissive only, and does not preclude
                            the calling of a constitutional convention under the implied power of the legislative
                                department.9
                  
                    
            
            Marshall was succeeded in January, 1913, by Samuel M. Ralston who recognized the importance of the
                    tax question, and, pursuant to an act of the legislature of that year, appointed a commission of
                    five to make a study of the tax question and report their findings, but little was accomplished. The
                    commission failing to agree, made four separate reports. The majority report, signed by three
                    members, recommended that the State Tax Board be abolished, and that, instead, there be created a
                    Tax Control Board with greater power and that the general property tax law be made more equitable.
                    The two minority members made separate reports, each suggesting laws which would require amendments
                    to the state constitution. The chairman of the commission made a separate report which was a reply
                    to the minority report.
            When Goodrich became governor, the general property tax law had remained unchanged for years being
                    unaffected by Marshall's efforts to secure a new constitution. Under the law, the farmers
                    and home owners were bearing an unjust burden of taxation, and many holders of large fortunes in
                        
                  
                     8 Kettleborough, Constitution Making in Indiana, I,
                            ccxi.
                  
                     9 Ellingham v. Dye, 178 Indiana,
                            336.
               
                     intangible property were not paying their share of taxation.
                    Goodrich, as was well known to his friends and business associates, had a keen sense of justice and
                    had already decided to do something to relieve the unjust tax burden which was being borne by the
                    owners of real estate and tangible personal property. He knew, that without a new state constitution
                    or amendments thereto, it would be impossible to raise by taxation sufficient revenue to meet the
                    growing needs of the state; and he knew that, under the decision of the Indiana Supreme Court, it
                    was then impossible to amend the constitution.
            Goodrich, being a resident of a county bordering 
                        Ohio
                    , was quite familiar with the tax laws of both, states. He had seen the people of 
                        Ohio
                     adopt a new constitution with much to their advantage. He had clients and friends who
                    owned lands on both sides of the state line, and he knew that the laws of 
                        Ohio
                     did not place the burden upon the home owners of that state. As a lawyer, he knew that
                    all the legal authorities at that time upheld the right of a legislature of a state, with a
                    constitution such as Indiana, to call a constitutional convention. He also knew that the Indiana
                    Supreme Court, in the aforesaid opinion of Cox, had indirectly so held. He had the right to assume
                    and did assume, therefore, that the Indiana Supreme Court would so hold. In his first message to the
                    General Assembly, he recommended the enactment of a statute for the calling of a constitutional
                    convention to convene in January, 1918. The legislature, in response to the governor's
                    request, did promptly enact a statute calling for such a convention.10
            
            One reason the governor stated in his message to the legislature, as to why a constitutional
                    convention should be called, was that, under the repeated rulings of the Indiana Supreme Court, an
                    amendment of the constitution which had been submitted to the electorate fails of adoption, unless
                    approved by a majority of all the votes of those who vote at the election. In this connection it may
                    be stated, that twelve years after Goodrich's term of office had expired, a more liberal
                    Supreme Court, in an opinion written by Judge Walter E. Treanor, overruled all previous decisions of
                    the Supreme Court on that question and held that an amendment of the state constitution was adopted
                    if the amendment received 
                  
                     10
                            Journal of the Senate of Indiana, 1917, pp. 64–65.
               
                     a majority of the votes cast for and against such an
                        amendment.11 This ruling of the Supreme Court makes the enactment of
                    constitutional amendments less difficult; in fact, it is now possible to adopt amendments desired by
                    the people. There is, therefore, now less need for a constitutional convention.
            The governor, in his message of 1917, also recommended the enactment of a statute providing for the
                    levy of excise taxes, and a bill for such a law was introduced.
            At the request of the governor, I was assisting in his office during the legislative session of 1917
                    and was, therefore, familiar with what took place. Soon after the excise tax bill was introduced,
                    large numbers of tax dodgers and men of wealth whose investments were in intangible property,
                    together with paid lobbyists, swarmed into the Statehouse to defeat the bill. I can best illustrate
                    what took place by quoting briefly from the governor's special message read to the General
                    Assembly in February asking for favorable action on the bill.. Among other things, the governor, in
                    his message said: 
                        "Prom the very beginning there has been a determined and constant effort upon the
                            part of certain special interests of the state, to block the legislative program. This
                            effort has constantly grown bolder, as the lobbyists in charge of the movement have felt
                            they had the situation in hand.
                        "Up to this time the lobby, which is seeking to thwart the expressed will of the
                            people of the state, has succeeded in delaying much legislation. It now believes it will be
                            able to carry out its reactionary program to the end. I hardly need to remind you that the
                            gentlemen here about the legislature, promoting special interests, do not represent the
                            people in the political sense of that term, yet I may remind you that the people do not
                            spend their time in and around the statehouse or the hotels entertaining lavishly, but they
                            are at home, going about their business, making the state a happy prosperous and good place
                            in which to live."12
                  
                    
            
            The advice of the governor was not heeded, the lobbyists prevailed, and the excise tax bill was
                    defeated. The legislature, in response to the request of the governor, had already passed the act
                    calling for a constitutional convention to meet in January, 1918. The governor was looking forward
                    to the time, during his administration when the state would 
                  
                     11 See in re Todd, 208 Indiana, 168.
                  
                     12
                            Journal of the Senate of Indiana, 1917, p. 818.
               
                     have a new constitution with broader provisions as to taxation,
                    but another disappointment was in store for him.
            The same interests which had defeated his excise tax bill promptly caused a suit to be commenced to
                    enjoin the calling of a constitutional convention. This suit was filed in the 
                        Marion County
                     Superior Court presided over by Judge William W. Thornton. The cause was advanced, and
                    Thornton promptly held valid the act passed by the legislature calling the convention. An immediate
                    appeal was taken to the Supreme Court, which court, in an opinion written by Judge Richard K. Erwin,
                    concurred in by a majority of the court, reversed the decision of Thornton and held that the General
                    Assembly had no authority to call a constitutional convention. There was a dissenting opinion by
                    Judge Moses B. Lairy. With due respect for Erwin and those members of the court who concurred with
                    him, it is my opinion that the conclusion of the court was contrary to the authorities, and that the
                    dissenting opinion of Lairy correctly stated the law.
            Inasmuch as the decisions of the Supreme Court as reported are usually not read, except by lawyers, I
                    shall here make available to those who may read this article the reasoning and conclusion reached in
                    the majority opinion of the Supreme Court. This, in my opinion, can best be done by quoting at
                    length from the dissenting opinion of Lairy who, among other things, stated: 
                        The prevailing opinion holds that the act of the legislature of 1917, providing for the
                            calling of a constitutional convention and a preparation of a proposed constitution by such
                            convention and its submission to the people for their approval is unconstitutional and void
                            for two reasons: first, because the legislature possessed no power to call a constitutional
                            convention without first obtaining direct authority from the people to do so by means of a
                            vote on the proposition as to whether they desired a new constitution; and secondly, because
                            the act violates § 1, Art. 1 of the State Constitution, which provides that the
                            people have at all times an indefeasible right to alter and amend their form of government.
                            As to the power of the legislature, it is held that such body does not possess the power to
                            submit to the people for their vote the proposition as to whether or not they desire a new
                            constitution, but that this marks the limit of its power in respect to initiating a
                            proceeding of this kind unless and until a favorable vote is obtained upon that question,
                            after which it might proceed to call a convention in pursuance of authority thus obtained
                            from the people by their direct vote.
                        The holding that the legislature is without power in this respect  is based upon the proposition that the initiation of a movement
                            by that body for the calling of a constitutional convention is not ordinary legislation, and
                            for that reason, such power is not conferred by § 1, Art. 4 supra, by which all legislative power is conferred upon the general assembly. It is
                            said that the legislative power thus conferred carries authority to make and repeal laws as
                            rules of civil conduct pursuant to the Constitution and to carry out the details of
                            government so instituted, but that it does not carry or include authority for fundamental
                            legislation. The conclusion reached is that, as the power to originate a movement for a new
                            constitution by calling a convention is not granted by the section of the Constitution last
                            cited, the legislature cannot possess such power unless an express grant thereof be found in
                            some other part of the Constitution, or unless it be obtained by a direct vote from the
                            people.
                        The statement that the legislature may obtain from the people the power to call a
                            constitutional convention, admits that the general assembly has power from some source to
                            institute a movement of this kind by providing for the submission of such question to a vote
                            of the people. This power is not directly conferred by the Constitution; and, under the
                            holding of the court, it is not one of the ordinary legislative powers granted by
                            § 1, of Art. 4, of the Constitution. Whence, then comes this power and what is
                            its nature? Within what limits may it be exercised, and how are such limits to be
                            fixed? As the majority opinion holds that the power is not a legislative power,
                            and that it is not conferred by the Constitution, it must be a political power resting in
                            the general assembly as the branch of government which most directly represents the people.
                            This power is not granted by the Constitution and that instrument places no limitations upon
                            it. Can the court limit a power of a co-ordinate branch of government, when the Constitution
                            imposes no limitations? If the legislature has power to initiate a movement of
                            this kind, which all concede, what right has the court to place a limitation upon the power
                            so long as its exercise does not conflict with any provision of fundamental law?
                            If the legislature has power to provide for the submission of the desirability of a new
                            constitution to a vote of the people and may afterward call a convention, why deny that it
                            has the power to call the constitutional convention first and provide that the desirability
                            of the new constitution shall be submitted to the people afterward? Neither of
                            such powers is expressly granted by the Constitution and neither of such acts is prohibited
                            by it.
                        When a co-ordinate branch of government assumes to exercise a political or governmental power
                            which is not forbidden by the Constitution and the scope of which is not limited thereby,
                            can the courts interfere with its exercise of fix limitations upon such power? It
                            is claimed that the case of Ellingham V. Bye (1912), 178
                            Ind. 336, 99 N.E. 1, Ann. Cas. 1915 C 200, 23 U.S. 205, 58 L. Ed. 206, and the authorities
                            there cited recognize the right of the courts to limit and control the exercise of such
                            powers; but an examination of the authorities cited will show that they go no further than
                            to hold that the courts may confine the exercise of such powers within the limits fixed by
                            the Constitution. When the Constitution provides that a power  shall be expressed in a particular manner, a failure to comply
                            with the provisions of the Constitution in any material respect will vitiate the act and the
                            courts have power to so declare .…
                        However, the power which is here asserted is not forbidden by the Constitution, the manner of
                            its exercise is not prescribed nor is the scope of its exercise limited by that instrument.
                            It is a political power abiding in the legislature which is an independent co-ordinate
                            branch of the state government. When the legislature representing the people assumes in the
                            exercise of such power to inaugurate a movement for a new constitution and to provide a
                            means by which the people may frame and adopt such a constitution, if they desire to do so,
                            I do not think that the judicial department can properly deny the power or confine its
                            exercise within limits not fixed by the Constitution.
                        The government of the state consists of three departments, the legislative, the judicial and
                            the executive. Each of the departments is independent of the other. Each is responsible for
                            its own acts, within constitutional limits, free from interference or control of any other
                            department of government. The legislative branch of the government provided a modus operandi by which the people of the State might frame and adopt a new
                            constitution, the executive branch of the government, according to the allegations of the
                            complaint, is about to proceed to carry out the provisions made to that end, but this court,
                            exercising the supreme judicial power of the State interferes and forbids further steps
                            toward carrying out the provisions thus made by the legislature.
                        The Constitution is the supreme law of the State and when an act of the legislature conflicts
                            with this basic law the Constitution must be upheld, and the act must fail in so far as it
                            is affected by such conflict. It is the province of the court to decide when a conflict
                            exists and this is determined from a consideration of the provisions of the Constitution in
                            connection with the act under consideration. One who asserts that an act of the legislature
                            is violative of the Constitution must point out the specific provision in that instrument
                            with which it conflicts. Haun V. State, ex rel. (1914), 183 Ind. 153, 155,
                            108 N.E. 519.
                        Before a court should strike down an act of the legislature, it must decide that the act in
                            question conflicts with one or more of the specific provisions of the Constitution. A court
                            may not overthrow an act of the legislature because, in its opinion, such act violates the
                            spirit of our institutions, or impairs rights which it is the object of a free government to
                            protect, or because it encroaches upon the natural rights of citizens. Townsend V. State (1896), 147 Ind. 624, 47 N. E. 19, 37 L. R. A. 294, 62 Am. St. 477.
                            If the legislation is not clearly in conflict with some express provision of the State or
                            federal Constitutions it must be upheld. Levy V. State
                            (1903), 161 Ind. 251, 68 N.E. 172.
                        Because it is the peculiar province of the courts to determine what the law is, it is their
                            duty, when two laws conflict to determine the force and effect of each. If a law is
                            challenged as being in conflict with a provision of the Constitution it is the duty of the
                            court to consider both the law and the Constitution to see if the statute  can be upheld and enforced without violating the Constitution.
                            To this end a court will construe a statute which is doubtful in its meaning in such a way,
                            if possible, as to reconcile it with the Constitution and every reasonable doubt will be
                            indulged in favor of its validity. The courts are very reluctant to strike down an act of
                            the legislature, but where the conflict between the statute and fundamental law cannot be
                            reconciled, the statute must yield to the superior force of the Constitution.
                        In passing the act of 1917, providing for the calling of a constitutional convention, the
                            legislature assumed the exercise of a power for which it alone is answerable to the people.
                            As before stated this is a political power which rests in the legislature as the
                            representative of the people. It is neither granted by the Constitution nor forbidden by it.
                            The manner of its exercise is not prescribed by that instrument and its scope is in no way
                            limited thereby. Under such conditions the court may not rightfully direct the manner in
                            which the power must be exercised, neither can it deny the power nor confine its exercise
                            within limits not fixed by the Constitution.
                        In assuming to exercise this power I have no doubt that the legislature acted in good faith
                            and in conformity with the oath taken by each member to the effect that he would support and
                            uphold the Constitution. In determining that it had such power, it was not without
                            respectable authority and precedent. No one denies the right of the people to adopt a new
                            constitution whenever they may desire to do so. Our Constitution makes no provision as to
                            how this may be done. All authorities seem to agree that if a change of the form of
                            government is to be accomplished without a revolution it must be done with the assent of the
                            constitutional government. The movement must originate somewhere. As the legislature
                            directly represents the people, it has been generally regarded as the appropriate body to
                            initiate a movement of this kind; and, in most, if not all, of the states where new
                            constitutions have been adopted, the movement has originated in the legislature. All writers
                            on constitutions and constitutional law agree in saying that the power to call a
                            constitutional convention for a state resides in the legislature where the existing
                            constitution provides no other means.
                    
            
            At this point in his dissenting opinion, and to support his conclusion, that the power to call a
                    constitutional convention for a state resides in the legislature where the constitution provides no
                    other means, Lairy quoted at length from Thomas M. Cooley in A Treatise on the
                        Constitutional Limitations; Walter F. Dodd, The Revision and Amendment of
                        State Constitutions; John A. Jameson, A Treatise on Constitutional
                        Conventions; Roger S. Hoar, Constitutional Conventions; and American and English Encyclopedia of Law. He also quoted the paragraph in the opinion of
                    Judge Cox in the case of Ellingham v. Dye which I have quoted earlier in this
                    article. Judge Lairy concluded this paragraph of his  opinion by
                    stating that no authorities "can be found to the contrary," and concluded his
                    dissenting opinion as follows: 
                        One further question remains to be considered. Does the plan of procedure embodied in the act
                            of 1917 conflict with § 1, Art. 1 of the State Constitution, which reserves to
                            the people the indefeasible right to alter and reform their government? Under the
                            plan adopted, the people have a right through delegates elected for that purpose to frame
                            the constitution which would contain such alterations and reformations in the form of
                            government as seemed proper to the delegates and after the constitution was so framed the
                            people by their vote would have a right to accept or reject the changes thus offered. To my
                            mind the plan adopted by the act does not in any way or to any extent impair or abridge the
                            rights of the people under this section of the Bill of Rights; but, on the other hand it
                            provides a means by which the people may exercise their indefeasible right to alter and
                            reform their government.
                        ... I am forced to the conclusion that the plan for holding a constitutional convention
                            embodied in the act of 1917 is unobjectionable. …13
                  
                    
            
            This opinion, Bennett v. Jackson, holding that the act calling a constitutional
                    convention was unconstitutional, was handed down July 17, 1917, which was approximately eighteen
                    months before the meeting of the next legislature, and, the excise tax measure having been defeated,
                    the only way left to raise more money under the general property tax was by increasing rates or by
                    increasing property values for taxation. That plan was never popular with taxpayers, and there was
                    much criticism, some of it lodged against the governor by persons who did not understand the facts.
                    When the eighteen months had passed, the legislature of 1919 came to the Capitol. The governor in
                    his message reported the action of the Supreme Court as to the constitutional convention and
                    recommended that the General Assembly should submit certain amendments to the state constitution,
                    among which was an amendment empowering the legislature to classify property for the purpose of
                    taxation and otherwise broaden the power of the legislature as to methods of taxation including the
                    income tax. The governor, however, remembering that his excise tax bill had been defeated two years
                    before by the State Senate and finding that twenty-five members of that body were back in their
                    seats as holdovers and further finding that the special interests which had defeated his tax program
                    were not only more powerful, but encouraged by 
                  
                     13 Bennett v. Jackson, 186 Indiana, 553.
               
                     their victories in 1917 were more or less defiant. The governor
                    being a practical man decided not to press his program for excise tax legislation which he
                    definitely knew would again be defeated, but sought the co-operation of the General Assembly in
                    order to bring about the enactment of other important laws which were a part of his general program
                    when he became governor.
            Following the re-election of President Woodrow Wilson in 1916, the reactionaries in both the
                    Republican and Democratic parties were soon on the ascendant, so much so that the Republicans
                    nominated and the people elected 
                        Warren
                     G. Harding president in 1920. Then followed an era of complacency in the state and
                    nation until the financial crash and panic of 1929. It is sometimes referred to as the
                    "business depression"; but it was a panic just the same, and the worst in American
                    history; and with the panic came, in Indiana, a financial emergency which had to be met by taxation.
                    To raise sufficient revenue under the general property tax statute would have meant confiscation in
                    many instances. There was then no time to amend the constitution. Something had to be done. Governor
                    Paul V. McNutt and the legislature of 1933 arose to the occasion. There were enacted two tax
                    statutes, the gross income and intangible tax laws.14 Each of these statutes was
                    held constitutional as an excise tax law. The gross income tax law was correctly so held in an
                    excellent well-reasoned opinion written for the court by Judge Michael L. Fansler.15
            
            The intangible tax law was held to be constitutional by the narrowest margin. The principal opinion
                    written by Judge James P. Hughes was concurred in by Judge George L. Tremain, with Judge Treanor
                    concurring only in the result. Judges Fansler and Curtis Roll dissented with an opinion.10 It is my view, that the better reasoning is found in the dissenting opinion.
                    With a Supreme Court of different personnel, the opinion upholding the intangible tax act might yet
                    be overruled.
            If Goodrich could have had a constitutional convention, and a new and modern constitution had been
                    adopted, the validity of an intangible tax law, with different valuations of property in different
                    classes, could not be questioned.
            
               
                  14 Laws of the State of Indiana, 1933, pp.
                        388–407, 523–540.
               
                  15 Miles et al v. Department of Treasury et al, 209 Indiana, 172.
               
                  16 Lutz, Attorney-General et al v. Arnold, Attorney and
                        Trustee et al, 208 Indiana, 480.
            
            
            In any event, the enactment of these two tax laws was most fortunate for the state. They met the
                    emergency and produced sufficient revenue to meet the expenses of state government to keep open the
                    schools and made possible the reduction of taxes on thousands of Indiana homes. These laws may have
                    had, and may still have, some defects, but they have met the general approval of the people. The
                    repeal of neither has been sought by the three Republican legislatures since their enactment nor by
                    the Republican governor now in the Statehouse.
            To me, the facts and circumstances recited in this paper, including the tax legislation under the
                    administration of Mc-Nutt, and the attitude of state administrations since, all add up to this: That
                    the tax program of Goodrich set forth in his message to the legislature of 1917, including his
                    recommendation for the calling of a constitutional convention and an excise tax statute, shows his
                    wisdom and foresight, and that the criticism lodged against him on that score has been unjust.
            In politics and government Goodrich was a true liberal. He was, of course, in no sense a radical,
                    much less was he a standpatter. He was for progress, and with progress he advocated such changes in
                    the basic and other laws as were necessary to meet new or changed conditions.
            For many years, I have been hearing criticism of the administration of Goodrich in reference to his
                    advocacy and administration of Indiana tax laws. I have known that the criticisms were unfounded and
                    unjust. I have had much satisfaction and some pleasure, therefore, in the preparation df this
                    article.
            If, by this article, I have refreshed the memory of those who knew Goodrich and were familiar with
                    the work of his administration, and if I have added to the knowledge of his political activity and
                    his philosophy of party politics and of government, and if I have made clear his plan and program
                    for a new state constitution and reform of the Indiana tax laws, and how his plans and program were
                    frustrated, by reason of which he was misunderstood, misrepresented, and unjustly criticized, my
                    purpose in preparing and presenting it will have been accomplished.17
            
            
               
                  17 This article was submitted to Percy Goodrich, brother of Governor
                        Goodrich, Will H. Hays, and Frank P. Litschert, Governor Goodrich's private secretary,
                        all of whom confirmed the accuracy of the facts as stated.
            
         
         
         
            Forest Blake and Her Stories of Indiana
            
                    Lenore P. Ramsey
                
            In the first decade of this century while Edward Eggleston was accepted as the sole portrayer of
                    realistic rural Hoosierdom and Riley was the recorder of friendly "folk romance"
                    in rustic dialect, there appeared in a magazine of minor importance and in a few religious journals
                    a limited number of stories by an unknown woman who used the name of Forest Blake.
            With the exception of one or two, these stories deserve consideration as contributions to the social
                    history of Indiana and to the realism of post-frontier days. They contain beauty and neighborliness
                    as do the stories of Dorothy Canfield Fisher without the hopelessness sometimes evident in her
                    stories. They are not marred by the repression of Mary W. Freeman; they show lives limited by
                    circumstances, but not cramped or sordid. These are social documents as truly as the stories that
                    deal with labor discontents or great depressions or racial antagonisms, or any form of social
                    discontent. They are the realism of the commonplace. If stark and ugly facts are missing it is not
                    because, as 
                        Vernon
                     L. Par-rington said to William D. Howells, the author had a "dislike of
                    looking ugly facts in the face"; rather, the facts at which Miss Blake looked were not
                    ugly.
            The locale of Miss Blake's stories is that of Eggleston, the southern Indiana hills, but
                    with a difference. Writing of The Hoosier Schoolmaster and The
                        Mystery of Metropolisville, Ima Honaker Herron in The Small Town in American
                        Literature says that Eggleston "describing with a strict fidelity the barrenness
                    of life in the Middle West, eventually tended to put the mark of realism on other literature of the
                        region."1 I take exception to the words "strict
                    fidelity" only if by them Miss Herron means a complete as well as a true picture. I present
                    the Han' El' stories by Forest Blake as describing "with fidelity," provincial
                    people, in an isolated rural community in Indiana.
            My claim for Miss Blake as a writer of realistic fiction of the Hoosier state rests primarily on her
                    stories of a country girl, Han' El' (Hannah Ellen) who lived in the "mid-eighties"
                        
                  
                     1 Ima H. Herron, The Small Town in American
                            Literature (Durham, 
                                North Carolina
                            , 1939), 203.
               
                     and who by taking a teacher's examination qualified to
                    teach a district school when she was fifteen years old.
            The Han' El' series begins with "The Commencin' of Han' El'."2
                    The school which she attended was ten or fifteen years younger than Eggleston's
                    "Flat Creek deestrict." During her last year a uniform course of study for eight
                    grades was announced for the state and this was the year that eighth grade township examinations
                    made their debut in the Indiana school system. A commencin', new to these provincials, was held and
                    Han' El' chose for her essay subject "Daniel Webster"; and she wrote it
                    "with purple ink on foolscap paper, rolled it and tied it with red ribbon."
            In innumerable stories of similar type by other writers, the hair in curl papers is a favorite touch.
                    In this one, the graduate and her friends bumped three miles over rocks in an "old
                    jolt-wagon" which was filled with straight chairs for the family and two rockers for the
                    old folks, friends. Han' El' kept her hair in curl papers until they reached the woodshed, where,
                    with the help of her sister Hetty, the hair became a "mass of Ethiopian frizz."
                    They returned to the two-story hewn-log house; in the front yard were the ash hopper, the big iron
                    kettle, the grindstone, and the old well with its curb, windlass and bucket.
            Han' El' met deception and disappointment; she taught her first school; she touched romance in a
                    setting of the simple commonplace, stripped of luxury and meanness alike. Temporarily she hated the
                    old cook-stove, in "Buying a Happy Home," after two agents had shown the glory and
                    the wonder of the reservoir, a warming oven and an ashpan of the Happy Home Range, but the family
                    would not go in debt even for a seventy dollar range, but characteristically, recognized their happy
                    home without it.
            She and Effie Black (the villainess) had a Christmas tree, "The Combination Tree at
                    ‘Cisco," but this was long before the days of vivid, cheery wrappings. There was
                    a plush photograph album, and "drygoods, notions, crockery and hardware were passed out,
                    bare and unashamed." One 
                  
                     2 Forest Blake, "The Commenein' of Han' El'," in the
                                Woman's Magazine (41 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1896–1920), XXVII, No. 6 (1913), 5. Other stories in the series
                            were "Han' El' Encounters Mr. Gage," in ibid., XXVIII,
                            No. 1 (1913), 10; "Buying a Happy Home," in ibid.,
                            XXVIII, No. 5, p. 11; "The Combination Tree at 'Cisco," in ibid., XXX, No. 6, p. 8; "The last Day at Varmint Hollow" in ibid., XXVIII, No. 2.
               
                     of the gifts was a large collection of spools, dozens of them,
                    to make a whatnot.
            Another tale, "A Dream of Elizabeth Han'," is similar and in certain respects
                    identical with the Han' El' stories/ The schoolgirl in her calico dress and gingham apron trimmed
                    with red cross-stitch, wearing a red bow at her neck and one in her hair, must spend her time,
                    having learned all the school had to offer, decorating the dog-eared school books– until
                    she hears of the township examinations. Elizabeth Han', after her eighth grade examination, was
                    permitted to attend a five weeks' summer normal course and a week's Teacher's
                    Institute before she began her teaching. Her six weeks away from home made her dissatisfied with the
                    interior of their two-story hewn-log house. The furnishings she had "not questioned until
                    her horizon broadened were "whitewashed walls and floors covered with rag carpet which,
                    after spring housecleaning, fairly bulged with straw underneath. In the living-room, where the
                    fireplace was, there were two beds and a trundle-bed. The adjoining room was the parlor, and was
                    furnished with the newest rag carpet, a bureau, and a spare bed." There were pillow shams,
                    cotton tidies, gorgeous paper flowers, coffee-sacking rugs, picture frames of cornstalks tied at the
                    corners with purple yarn. Elizabeth Han' "set a dozen old hens," and in
                    "June hauled off a big coop of early fries to the store and traded them out for clothes for
                    the normal." Humble almost humorous, simple in expression but true in picture.
            These were the exteriors, the customs, the tools and the utensils of the people of the hills of
                    Indiana in the eighties. But the character is also there. Miss Blake sketches it unmistakably. Toil
                    has sobered but not embittered nor degraded them. They have love and pride of family; they have
                    simple pleasures and simple piety. There is in these stories none of the "cheapness, this
                    newness, and this ugliness, loosely tied in temporary cohesions, which furnished the materials of
                    provincialism for Edward Eggleston."4
            
            The plots in these stories have verisimilitude. They are the outgrowth of the lives of these people.
                    These plots sometimes end with a philosophic or religious conclusion arrived 
                  
                     3 Forest Blake, "A Dream of Elizabeth Han'," in the
                                Epworth Herald (51 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1890–1940), XVII, No. 49 (1907), 9.
                  
                     4 Herron, The Small Town in American Literature,
                            193.
               
                     at by the name character, but for these people whose story Miss
                    Blake presents, that is true. Her characters are one dimensional except her name characters. Mr.
                    Burke, of the Han' El' stories, with his squeaky shoes and his nervous manner comes to life,
                    momentarily. Effie Black barely escapes being too typically the villainess, even to her name. Like
                    criticism is applicable to many stories of this length.
            The style she uses is lucid, fluent, and suitable to the subject matter in simplicity. The
                    descriptions are brief, but clear cut; the figurative language is natural, without strain for the
                    unused, but withal fresh and honest. The picture of Han' El' in her graduation dress illustrates:
                    "The tight sleeves stopped about three inches from the top of the
                    ‘half-hands’ that Han' El' wore, leaving a wide bracelet of tanned arm
                    between. The bottom of the skirt rose high in front and sagged downward in the back, like a chicken
                    standing in the rain."
            In addition to the stories mentioned, "A Biography," the story of a gray farm cat
                    might, without too great disapproval of the critics, be classed with the realistic group. Two
                    stories might be classed with the psychological studies although they are not profoundly so; they
                    are "The Burden of Genius" and "The Siege of Fourteen." Another
                    story handles, with insight though with sentimentality, the results of the gossip in a smug little
                    town–"The Mother of George Alone: Senseless Gossip Winds Itself Up and Runs
                    Itself Down." Several articles and a novel by this author do not come within the province
                    of this paper.5
            
            Miss Blake did not paint an idyllic picture of rural life. She dealt with a rapidly changing
                    provincial group–earnest, 
                  
                     5 Forest Blake, "A Biography," in the Epworth Herald, XVIII, No. 6 (1907), 156; "The Burden of
                            Genius," in the Housewife (33 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1882–1917), March, 1912; "The Siege of Fourteen,"
                            in the National Magazine (61 vols., 
                                Boston
                            , 1894–1933), XXVI, No. 3 (1907), 353; "The Mother of George
                            Alone … ," in The Farmer's Wife (42 vols.,
                                    
                        St. Paul, Minnesota
                     , 1897–1939), XXIII, No. 9, p.
                            323. Other stories were "The Sacred Heart," in Farm Life
                            (20 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1903–1913), VIII (1906), No. 3, 4, 5, and 6; "Away from
                            'ome," in The Advance (68 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1867–1917), LVI, No. 2231 (1908), 16; "Four Years a
                            Barb," in the Woman's Home Companion
                                    (
                        Springfield, Ohio
                     , 1873- ), XXXVIII, No. 1 (1911), 10; "A
                            Like Affair," in Farm Life, VIII, No. 7 and 8; "A Thing
                            of Wood," Popular Fashions with Woman's
                                Home Journal (
                                New York
                            ), XXXIII, No. 10, p. 6; "In Charge of Mary Lucy," The Home Friend (34 vols., 
                                Kansas
                             City, 
                                Missouri
                            , 1916–1938), VII, No. 5, p. 3. (This one was not signed Forest
                            Blake, but her own name, Helen Weston.) Her book was a novel entitled Saint
                                Josephine (
                                New York
                            , 1909).
               
                     sincere, hard working, and ambitious. The background, she gained
                    from her own knowledge and that of her father and mother.
            Forest Blake, when she wrote the stories discussed in this paper, was Helen Weston, a native of
                    Indiana, a graduate of DePauw University. She is now Mrs. Otto Wells and she lives in 
                        Fairmount
                    , Indiana.
            The chief significance of her work is that it adds pieces to a picture of a period and of a section
                    of the country, a picture that heretofore was not complete. Every student knows that no matter how
                    small a part may be, if it assists in completing a whole it is worthy of notice.
         
         
            LIST OF CONTRIBUTORS
            John D. Barnhart is professor of history at Indiana University and editor of the Indiana, Magazine of History, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Chelsea L. Lawlis is a member of the 
                        Carlisle
                     High School Faculty, 
                        Carlisle
                    , Indiana. This article is a revised chapter of a master's thesis at Indiana
                    University, 1946, which was written under the direction of John D. Barnhart.
            Charles F. Remy is a lawyer in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana, who served as reporter of the Indiana Supreme Court from 1896 to 1904, and as
                    judge of the Indiana Appellate Court from 1918 to 1930.
            Lenore P. Ramsey is a member of the English and Speech department at 
                        Nebraska
                     State Teachers College, 
                  Wayne, Nebraska
               .
            Willie D. Halsell is connected with the history department of the University of 
                        Alabama
                    , University, 
                        Alabama
                    .
            Fred E. Brengle is a member of the department of social studies at Indiana State Teachers College, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana.
            
               
                        Geneva
                     Warner is the curator of special collections at the Indiana University Library, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            Dorothy Riker is an editor at the Indiana Historical Bureau, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana.
         
         
         
            Editor's Page
            The Mississippi Valley Historical Association, which met at Indiana University
                    last spring, is to meet at 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , at the Deshler-Wallick Hotel, April 24,
                    25, and 26. 
                        Ohio
                     State University is acting as host to the association this year. We have seen enough of
                    the program to know that the meeting will be a profitable one for members of the Indiana Historical
                    Society and particularly for those teaching American History in our universities, colleges, and high
                    schools. We hope there will be a good attendance of Indiana people.
            Howard H. Peckham has been the instigator of the new cover design and title page of the Indiana Magazine of History. We expect this change to meet widespread approval and wish to
                    give credit to him. This is only one instance where thoroughgoing co-operation has characterized his
                    work as the secretary of the Indiana Historical Society and as director of the Indiana Historical
                    Bureau. It is a pleasure to acknowledge his assistance and co-operation.
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            
                    Tribute to Eli Lilly
                
            After fourteen years of able leadership Eli Lilly declined renomination to the presidency of the
                    Indiana Historical Society at the annual meeting' in December. These fourteen years were productive
                    of more good things for the Society and its membership than any single period in its long history.
                    Much of this success has been directly due to the retiring president, and in appreciation these
                    accomplishments should be summarized and brought to the attention of the membership.
            Lilly's principal interest is in the prehistoric phases of our history, but this came about
                    through the medium of local history. About 1929 he decided to write a history of 
                        Kosciusko County
                     where he had spent summer vacations since boyhood on the shores of Lake Wawasee. This
                    task was to absorb some of his unbounded energy during the vacation period of that and perhaps
                    following years. His research advanced through the introductory stages and geological aspects and
                    reached the point where the Indian of history and prehistory had to be considered. In order to
                    obtain some information on Indian artifacts and materials he called upon his old friend, J. P. Dolan
                    of 
                        Syracuse
                    , and looked over his "cabinet" of Indian relics. While thus engaged
                    he must have displayed considerable interest, for it was not long until Dolan took Mr. and Mrs.
                    Lilly to see the collection of Albert Adis in Noble County. Here he probably saw objects of Indian
                    origin that surpassed his previous expectations, for the Adis collection was rich in slate
                    "ceremonial" forms of all kinds.
            That the materials he had seen in the Dolan and Adis collections made a deep impression upon him is
                    suggested by the fact that the history of 
                        Kosciusko County
                     was passed up for a much bigger project. He began to acquire his magnificent collection
                    of Indiana archaeological material which has since been given to the Society. The foundation for
                    this collection was obtained from Thomas Hendricks, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , who has long been an enthusiastic collector of artifacts.
            Just as an awakened knowledge of the existence of great quantities of archaeological material lead
                    him to a study of the Indian and his works, so did the acquisition of objects  make him realize that these things had a story to tell and that data
                    pertaining to prehistory was here for the seeking but doomed to ultimate extinction if not soon
                    recovered. As a result of this realization he soon gave up collecting and devoted his time and
                    talents to the problems of our Indian heritage.
            By the spring of 1931 he was eager to see archaeological work carried out in Indiana by the Society,
                    and when the late 
                        Warren
                     K. Moorehead came to the state in May for a site reconnoissance Lilly was the most
                    enthusiastic member of the party on the tour. This pilgrimage to some of the shrines of prehistory
                    prompted active field work during the summer and a policy of research which has continued to date.
            His first published work was the "Bibliographhy on Indiana Archaeology" issued May,
                    1932, as a number of the 
                        Indiana History Bulletin.
                     This publication listed every printed item dealing with the archaeology of each of the
                    ninety-two counties in the state. This was an outstanding contribution for such a bibliography is
                    badly needed for every state, but all too few have them. In December, 1932, he was elected president
                    of the Indiana Historical Society.
            Between 1931 and 1937, he gathered notes and data necessary for writing 
                        Prehistoric Antiquities of Indiana,
                     a volume issued to the membership of the Society in 1937. This work was instantly acclaimed in
                    professional circles throughout the country. It synthesized the best thought on all the many and
                    varied aspects of the archaeological problem without the personal element being injected into it.
                    Copious footnotes gave ample evidence of the tremendous amount of reading and study which made the
                    text possible. The illustrations we're an innovation in that they presented archaeological specimens
                    in a manner which was at once both scientifically acceptable and esthetically pleasing. Of all the
                    publications of the Society this volume, more than any other, has focused the attention of those
                    interested in history upon Indiana.
            In 1937, he authorized the inauguration by the Society of a new publication–the 
                        Prehistory Research Series.
                     This provided an outlet independent of the 
                        Indiana History Bulletin
                     for any and all subject matter pertaining to American anthropology which the Publications
                    Committee found acceptable.
            
            Recognizing the need for time perspective in prehistory, he also authorized the Society to establish
                    a series of fellowships in the study of ceramics, physical types and languages. These fellowships
                    were conceived to bring to a single focal point, with history and archaeology as the nucleus, all
                    data from which a sequence of events might be derived and from which a chronology might evolve.
                    These studies have been eminently successful.
            The Walam Olum, the only recorded Indian document having any bearing upon Indiana prehistory, has
                    absorbed his interest for several years. This migration legend of the 
                        Delaware
                     Indians was recorded by means of pictographs on sticks and was obtained, apparently
                    from the Indians on White River, by a Dr. Ward. The sticks, or at least copies
                    of the pictographs, came into the hands of Constantine S. Rafinesque, who later obtained the Indian
                    words to accompany the figures. Rafinesque and others published on this document many years ago, and
                    in these writings Lilly recognized features which convinced him of the validity of the story as a
                    historical document. Once more applying the methods of triangulation to the problem, approaches have
                    been made from the angles of history, archaeology, language, ethnology, and physical type. He took
                    upon himself the task of verifying and proving the correctness of the pictographic figures. So
                    proficient has he become in this phase of the study that he was able to note several instances where
                    previous authors had made inadvertent transpositions of figure parts and which had changed their
                    significance considerably.
            One of the sites visited on the 1931 pilgrimage previously referred to was the Angel Site near 
                        Newburgh
                    . This is by far the most important site in Indiana. The extensive village area, the
                    remnants of the encircling stockade, and the group of mounds presided over by the great central
                    mound made a lasting impression on all members of the party. Lilly rued the fact that "we
                    sit idly by, letting these precious chances slip through our fingers." When, in 1938, it
                    seemed that the Angel Site was doomed to destruction he did not hesitate in authorizing the Society
                    to purchase such tracts of land as were required to preserve the site. In order to do this it was
                    necessary to use funds which had been established for the erection of an archaeological museum. In
                    making the decision he was well aware that a museum  might be
                    built anytime, but a mound group once lost is lost forever. Once more, we have here an instance of a
                    scientific mind dominating a human heart for he had long cherished the idea of a museum wherein our
                    treasures might 'receive the public attention they merit.
            Within the past few years Indiana University displayed an increasing interest in anthropology, which
                    now bids fair to become a firmly established part of the curriculum. This welcome interest can be
                    traced directly to Lilly's leadership and his activity in drawing to the Society and state
                    individuals interested in their several fields, yet whose prime purpose is co-ordination of effort.
                    The bond which has always existed between the Society and Indiana University has, thereby, become
                    more cohesive.
            In declining renomination to the presidency of the Society, he merely gave voice to his conviction
                    that some one else should have the pleasure of leadership which had been his to enjoy for so long.
                    His gratification in directing the affairs of the Society have not been at all one-sided for
                    everyone who has worked with him has derived joy from the association. This is borne out by the
                    resolution passed by the Executive Committee and Society membership in attendance at the annual
                    meeting to wit: 
                        WHEREAS Mr. Eli Lilly has been president of the Indiana Historical Society for fourteen
                            years, from 1933 to 1947, and has given freely of his time and interest to the leadership of
                            this Society, and
                        WHEREAS Mr. Lilly has contributed generously and regularly to the archaeological program and
                            other activities of the Society over a period of years, helping it increase its vigor and
                            attain national prominence; therefore be it
                        RESOLVED, that the officers and members of the Executive Committee who have served with him,
                            and the Society membership at large, do hereby express the great esteem and appreciation
                            they have long entertained for Mr. Eli Lilly as a person and as their presiding officer and
                            their regret at his decision to decline the office again, and do hereby order that this
                            resolution be spread upon the minutes of this annual meeting and a copy be transmitted to
                            Mr. Lilly.
                    
            
            In response the retiring president stated that the Society was by no means getting
                    "rid" of him and that his interest was undiminished. He retains an active role as
                    a member of the Executive Committee and the new president, William 0. Lynch, will find in him an
                    energetic, sympathetic, and enthusiastic supporter.
         
         
         
            Documents
            THE SIXTEENTH INDIANA REGIMENT IN THE LAST VICKSBURG CAMPAIGN
            
                    Edited by Willie D. Halsell
                
            The Sixteenth Indiana Regiment was a widely traveled unit as well as one of diverse experiences. An
                    account of its adventures to the date of November, 1863, was given in an editorial of The Volunteer, a small paper devoted chiefly to the Sixteenth.1 This
                    paper, which was found in the correspondence of a Union soldier, William H. Jordan, furnishes
                    corroboration for the letters of that soldier. The editorial is printed with the letters in which he
                    described particularly two phases of the Regiment's experiences: the six months preceding
                    the fall of Vicksburg and the six subsequent months.2
            
            In these letters the complicated and difficult nature of the attacks on Vicksburg were indicated by
                    the expedition into 
                        Louisiana
                     for the purpose of destroying a supply railroad, by the attempt to reach Vicksburg
                    through Old River, and by the attack on 
                        Arkansas
                     Post. Once Vicksburg had surrendered, the Sixteenth pursued Joseph E.
                    Johnston's forces to Jackson and saw the Confederates leave the 
                        Mississippi
                     capital. The Sixteenth subsequently campaigned in 
                        Louisiana
                     and was based near 
                        New Orleans
                     for some time.
            The writer of the letters, William H. Jordan, was a native of 
                  Manchester, Dearborn County
                ,
                    Indiana, and for some thirty years after the war a druggist in 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . Disease and infirmities, caused by exposure during military campaigns, brought about
                    his retirement from business, and he died in 
                        Cincinnati
                     in 1911.
                        s
                     One of his decided traits was reticence, which may be noticed in the letters to his mother to
                    whom he was most devoted.
            Jordan enlisted in 1862, joining Company E, Sixteenth Indiana Infantry. He was elected second
                    lieutenant, and a year later was promoted to first lieutenant.4 His tasks, as
                    shown in 
                  
                     1 Vermillionville, 
                                Louisiana
                            , The Volunteer, November 7, 1863. This was the second number
                            of volume one published by John R. Bell.
                  
                     2 The letters and The Volunteer are in the
                            possession of Mrs. William H. Rucker, Itta Bena, 
                                Mississippi
                            . William H. Jordan was her uncle.
                  
                     3
                            
                                Lawrenceburg
                            , Indiana, Register, February 16, 1911.
                  
                     4 W. H. H. Terrell, Report of the Adjutant General of
                                Indiana (8 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana, 1865–1869), II (1865), 140–141.
               
                     his letters, were varied; he on one occasion had charge of an
                    Ambulance Corps, more than once he was called on to make out pay rolls, and he served on a court
                    martial for some length of time.
            The letters of William H. Jordan to his mother are ten in number. Included in the correspondence are
                    also two letters written to him by soldier friends when he was at home on furlough or on sick leave.
                    In editing these manuscripts only family matters have been omitted and no changes have been made.
                    The letters follow the editorial of The Volunteer. The editorial has many
                    typographical errors, which are all reproduced.
            
                    THE VOLUNTEER
                    JOHN R. BELL EDITOR
                    
                  Vermilionville, La., Nov. 7, 1863.
                    16TH INDIANA REGIMENT
                    Men are always disposed to be jealous of the good name of the organization of which they are a
                        part. In military life esepcially where pride makes men brave, is it proper they should think
                        the Regiment or Corps to which they belong the best. As members of the 16th Regiment without
                        vanity, may we well be proud of the marches, hardships and battles. To some of us who have been
                        with it during the war, both carriug a gun and wearing a sword, it affords us pleasure to think
                        of the days and weeks that have glided into month and years since we first donned the
                        habiliments of Uncle Samuel. Organized at 
                            Richmond
                        , Indiana, on the news of the first Rull Run, we left our native State, under the
                        leadership of Hackleman, whom among all of Indiana's Colonel's "No
                        bolder e're to battle rode." Our first years service was spent not unpleasantly among
                        the bleak hills, mountains, plains and fertile valleys of 
                            Maryland
                         and 
                            Virginia
                        , until we had grown familiar with Harper's Fery, 
                            Winchester
                        , Manassas and Warrenton Junction, and knew every by-rode and mountain
                        pass.–Discharged at 
                            Washington
                        , May 14th '62. Reorganized at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , under Col T. J. Lucas, our former Lt. Colonel, our Regiment left that city on the
                        19th of August, with full rank of a thousand strong; eager to meet the invading foe on 
                            Kentucky
                         soil, Ten days afterward, in the bewildering chaos of battle, we stood upon the
                        "dark and bloody ground." A little squad of undisciplined men surrounded by
                        three times the number still faced outward and fell back slowly before the resistless foe.
                        Sternly determined our Regiment, gathered up its thin ranks knowing they had not wisely been led
                        into the conflict; but doing their work as Americans in many climes and on many fields, have
                        performed their duty bravely and well. A hundred and eighty of our regiment escaped, two hundred
                        were killed and wounded, and the remander were prisoners.–While we thought of Lt.
                        Col. Wolfe,  dying a heroes death, with Link, Topping and
                        Conklin, with stern and bitter satisfaction we thought that a many a rebel had fired his last
                        shot, and lay cold and stiff while the moonlight gleamed down pure and beautifuf upon the dead,
                        the wounded and we tired and worn out prisoners. The shadowy gloom settled down upon many a
                        household in Indiana, as came the news of precious ones, lost there, the jewels of many
                        households and many a young life with all its hopes that went down forever upon that 
                            Kentucky
                         battlefield. A couple of months passed in camp at 
                            Indianapolis
                        , till exchanged and in November the 16th, again left Indiana for the South. After
                        stopping at 
                            Memphis
                        , formed a part of the "Castor Oil Expedition" aboard the fleet
                        that started so proudly down the great river to redeem the promise that Logan made for the
                        "men of the North-West. On Christmas day, at Millikens Bend, our Brigade under the
                        gallant Burbridge, made a daring raid into Lousania to cut the Western Railroad. Tho' white
                        cotton-fields by the side of dark bayous and palm, under the tall cypress trees festooned with
                        the Spanish moss, we marched to Dalis. We made sixty miles in thirty-six hours, leaving
                        distroyed behind us twelve miles of railroad, four bridge an da million dollars worth of cotton.
                        The next day we sailed down the river, and sweeping up the Yazoo, our army disembarked and threw
                        ilself with hopeless efforts again and again upon the fortifications that crowned the Walnut
                        Hills. Our Regiment, though under the fire of shells, fortunately escaped the massaere of
                        Chickasaw Bayou. On New Years night wiser and I hope sadder, our General learned the nature of
                        the contest and silently drew his army back to the boats. Then northward to White
                            River, up that into the 
                            Arkansas
                         to near the Post. Cold and wet, vainly trying to sleep praying that morning would
                        come while the beleagureing army completely encircled the rebel forces in their works, we rested
                        on the eve of the battle. On Sunday the eleventh of January, the 16th was the advance regiment
                        of Burbridge's Brigade that led the charging columns at 
                            Arkansas
                         Post. Who that was there will ever forget it. Four hours of the gun-boats awful
                        thunder, the roar of musketry and the smoke of battle, that hung above the ruined works and
                        dismounted cannon above the dead and dying of both armies, rolled away laaving proudly waiving
                        above us brighter and puer our flag of glorious beauty. Our Regiment lost sixty-seven out of
                        three hundred, and our Brigade lost more than the rest of the army. Then we sailed down the
                        river to Young's Point, where ensued the dark day of the 16th. Long will we remember
                        with horror the muddy camps, when sickness and death were around us, with scarcely enough well
                        men to bury the dead, and where the levee, the only dry spot of land, was thickly dotted with
                        graves of those who will stand no more among us. In March we moved to Milliken's Bend,
                        where the general health rapidly improved. From this point the 13th Army Corps started on that
                        march througd the bayous of Lonisiana, which found the open door of Vicksburg. Time and space
                        forbid details of those battles fought whose history would requre a volume instead of a page. We
                        can but mention names that belong to history now that will make each man so proud to say in
                        after years he was in Grant's army.–Port Gibson, Champion Hills, Black River
                        Bridge, and that  dreadful charge of the 22d of May
                        inaugurated the memorable siege.– Then day and night almost constantly on duty, the
                        men of the 16th were on picket or in the trenches until on the birth-day of our Nation
                        "Down with the traitors and up with the stars," was sung by the victorious
                        army in the streets of Vicksburg, On the 5th of July, before our guns had hardly cooled off, we
                        were on the march after Johnson. This was one of our hardest campaigns. Without a change of
                        clothing or a half enough to eat, for ten days within range of rifle bullets, and Jackson was
                        evacuated.–Then back to Vicksburg, and for the first time since leaving Indiana the
                        16th had a few weeks rest. Robert Conover, who had, like Jacob for Rachel, served long and
                        faithfully, was here made Major. The Regiment moved to 
                            New Orleans
                        , and with one turn of the crank in the General's tent, the 16th was Mouted
                        Intfantry. A scont to Donaldsonville was the per-cursor of the present expedition. This is a
                        hurried sketch of the past, but a word for the present and future. Should a man from the 16th
                        starve, when chickens abound? Nay, verily. Shall the Reb's wrath be a stench
                        in the nostril when good horses are found in the stables? Not while Co.
                        "K" liveth. And if Co. B feedeth at midnight on the Frenchman's
                        poultry, making him believe they are as good Rebs as ever ate corn bread: shall we not follow
                        their example? Yea, muchly, even if it maketh another who is likewise deceived and
                        suckered in. With "Uncle Tom," (on whose shoulders we hope soon will glitter
                        the star he has so richly won), and Conover, Redfield, the "cool Major" of the
                        skirmish line, the 16th, can answer like 
                            Scotland
                        's Baron– "Ready! Aye, Ready!" When the bugal
                        sounds "Boot and Saddle," to horse and away!
                    JIM COX.
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              12 Miles up Yazoo River
                              
                           
                                    Thursday January 1st 1863
                                
                        Dear Mother
                        This is the first opportunity I have had to write since we left 
                                        Memphis
                                     and there is but a poor prospect of this going north for some Time as
                                    navigation is said to be closed above us but I will write every Time I have a chance
                                    I have [sic] and report our progress in Dixiei
                        We left our Camp at 
                                        Memphis
                                     at 11 P.M. Saturday Dec. 20th marched to the river below town and
                                    embarked on the J Ci Swon5 one of the best of 
                                        Mississippi
                                     River Boats our load consisted of Gen Bur-bridge6
                                    and Staff the 16th and two Companies of the 6th 
                                        Missouri
                                    
                                    
                              
                                 5 In Jordan's letters this boat is twice
                                            named and, as he wrote it, the name appears to be "J. C.
                                            Swon." Such a boat, however, is not listed among those engaged in
                                            the operation between Napoleon and Milliken's Bend. Since the
                                            "J. C. Snow" is named in that list, the name of the boat
                                            Jordan mentioned must have been the "J. C. Snow." The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records
                                                of the Union and Confederate Armies (70 vols., 
                                                Washington
                                            , 1880–1901), Series 1, XVII, part 1, p. 614.
                              
                                 6 Brigadier General Stephen G. Burbridge, commanded
                                            the Fourth Division, Thirteenth Army Corps.
                           
                                     Cavalry we laid at the wharf until noon Sunday
                                    when the division being all loaded we started down the river our division was on 15
                                    Steamboats and our Regt being on the 6th we could at times see the whole line and
                                    after we were joined by the other divisions the sight was certainly worth three
                                    years of a mans life- to see seventy Steamboats plowing their way in single file
                                    down the river is not an every day occurrence and not likely to occur again in this
                                    generation at least it was splendid to say the least
                        Our first days run was to Friars Point a little town which some of the 
                                        Iowa
                                     Regts burnt the next morning besides sacking the stores and capturing
                                    all the chickens this burning houses is I am glad to say not approved of by either
                                    Gen. Sherman or Gen Burbridge although Gen Sherman has issued an order to burn all
                                    houses where they fire en our troops- We left Friars Point about 8 AM Monday morning
                                    and run to Gaines' Landing Ark by 2 P M where we landed and the men went ashore to
                                    cook and wash besides which they burnt the houses only one of which was worth more
                                    than five dollars in the night we sent out a party to a house after Guerrillas they
                                    brought in three and quite a number of horses and mules besides some darkies that
                                    the officers made them leave behind
                        We left Gaines' Wednesday morning and did not stop again until we got to Millikins
                                    Bend
                        1PM Saturday
                        I will now try to finish my letter without making another break– when I
                                    had written my account of our campaign as far as Gaines I was called off to make Pay
                                    Rolls for the Company since which every thing has been bustle and excitement and all
                                    the events of a great retreat.
                        We landed at Millikens bend in the night and early next morning were ordered to cook
                                    two days rations and be ready to march in two hours accordingly we got every thing
                                    ready and when our time was up our Brigade was on the march through the 
                                        Louisiana
                                     swamps and Bayous we walked and walked for twenty five miles when we
                                    struck the Vicksburgh and 
                                        Texas
                                     Rail Road at Dallas Station where we Bivouacked for the night- a detail
                                    was soon made to tear up the Rail Road track which was done for several
                                    miles– our Adjutant got up an expedition of his own in the night and
                                    captured a Confederate Cavalryman besides taking another Town- That was our
                                    Christmas Friday morning we burnt the Bridge at Dallas saw a few Guerrillas in the
                                    woods fired three or four shells at them and by 11 AM were on our way back to the
                                    boats had a hard march and by 10 P M were safe aboard and felt quite at home7
                        
                        Saturday we ran down to the mouth of the Yazoo and 12 miles up that river to Old
                                    River where the boys went ashore and cooked 3 days rations- in the night we marched
                                    six or seven miles through mud and swamps to our advanced lines- early Sunday
                                    morning our Brigade was in line and on the move we formed in line under the 
                              
                                 7
                                            The Volunteer of November 7, 1863, claimed that they
                                            marched sixty miles in thirty-six hours and destroyed twelve miles of
                                            railroads, four bridges, and $1,000,000 worth of cotton.
                           
                                     Bluffs and laid in the woods and listened to the
                                    Battle on our left where Morgans Division was trying to cross the Bayou on a Bridge
                                    it was a well fought Battle [not] any particular advantage being gained by either
                                    side- Sunday night and Monday our Company was on duty as Picket Guard and
                                    Skirmishers the night was very quiet but early next morning work commenced on our
                                    left again- our forces had built a bridge and a breastwork of logs to defend it the
                                    Rebels had an earthwork on the other side of the Bayou within two or three Hundred
                                    Yards of ours and they fired away at each other all day doing some of the heaviest
                                    musketry firing I ever heard and an occasional shell dropped into the woods where we
                                    were lying Kept our Brigade in a high state of excitement all day- During the day
                                    two Companies of the 8th [?] 
                                        Missouri
                                     Regt. crossed the bridge under fire and laid down under the enemys
                                    intrenchments where they were obliged to lay all day as they were not strong enough
                                    to take the fort and could not get back to the bridge without drawing the fire of
                                    other earthworks- they lay so near the enemys works that when a gun was put over the
                                    top of the Breastwork they could catch it with their hands- when they came back that
                                    night they left 26 of their number on the field- that night was the last firing of
                                    the Battle of Vicks-burgh next morning we went to building breast works and taking
                                    up heavy seige guns- Wednesday I came down to the Boat and spent New Years day
                                    working on Pay Rolls after dark orders came to be ready to move and every thing was
                                    loaded on the Boats- about 10 0 clock here they came Officers and men Seige
                                    Batteries and Field Batteries Generals Escorts and Wagon trains in a long line and
                                    on to the boats and everything quiet again until morning and that ended the seige of
                                    Vicksburgh- Yesterday as we watched the long line of Steamers shoving out one by one
                                    under the protection of the Gun-bots there was many a sad looking face and many
                                    acurse on the feature for these soldiers will swear when out of humour
                        Gen. Burbridge is on our boat and I thought as I met him yesterday that for one day
                                    at least I did not envy him his position-to night we are back to Millikens Bend
                                    going I Know not where but will write again as soon as I have time
                        
                                    Wm H Jordan
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Steamboat J C Swon8
                              
                              
                                 
                                    Arkansas
                                  River
                           
                                    Jan 17th 1863
                                
                        Dear Mother
                        The last time I wrote you I think we were at the mouth of White
                                    River expecting to go up to St Charles but the result proves that there
                                    are very few in this army that know with any certainty the plans of its commanders
                        We had everything ready to move on Friday the 9th and started up White
                                        River as we expected but had gone but a few miles when we went
                                    through a cut-off or bayou into 
                                        Arkansas
                                     River then up the River to within a few miles of 
                                        Arkansas
                                     Post which the Confederates under Gen. Churchill had strongly fortified
                                    and were supposed 
                              
                                 8 See footnote 5.
                           
                                     to hold with a large force- Saturday we landed
                                    and our Regiment formed on the Bank of the river Co B. being without officers of its
                                    own I was detached to assist Lieut. Doherty of Co. A in its command and have not
                                    been ordered back to my own company although I should prefer staying with them-
                                    Saturday evening we moved to the front and received a heavy fire of shells from the
                                    fort one of which burst in a tree killing one and wounding three of Co B pieces of
                                    the same shell also wounded one of Co G and several in a Regiment lying directly
                                    back of ours this was the last shot that night-Sunday there was a great, deal of
                                    moving troops and preparation but no firing until the afternoon when the 60th Ind
                                    16th Ind9 and 83d 
                                        Ohio
                                     advanced in line of battle to storm the fort in front which was the
                                    signal for an advance all along our lines- The 60th Ind the 83d 
                                        Ohio
                                     and the two left Companies of the 16th retreated some in order and some
                                    kind of promiscuously but soon rallied and came to our support the 16th except the
                                    two left companies B & G did nobly the colors of the Regt never moved back
                                    an inch althouh we were under a heavy fire for over three hours when the white flag
                                    went up and we went into the fort Co E fought well although without officers Capt
                                    Terrill could not Keep up when we advanced and Lieut Stevenson got lost from his
                                    company when the left retreated I saw both during the fight they were at the left of
                                    the Regiment where Co B. should have been but of which nothing was left except Lieut
                                    Doherty and myself with some stragglers from our own Regt and the 83d 
                                        Ohio
                                    - When we got into the fort and saw what our Gunboats and Artillery had
                                    done I had to give it up that big guns are of some force- the fort mounted three
                                    seige guns one pivot and two casemate besides one or two batteries of field
                                    Artillery on the walls and along the Rifle Pits- the casemate guns were very large
                                    being nine inch columbiads and the Pivot gun a 9 inch rifled Dahlgreen the balance
                                    six and twelve pounders the Casemates for the two guns were built in the form of a
                                    small house of very heavy hewed timber set upright the roof of the same with the
                                    addition of a coat of inch iron on the outside they were literally torn to pieces
                                    balls and shell from the Gunboats going through iron & wood and into the
                                    casemates destroying everything in their way- one ball from a Gunboat struck one of
                                    the Columbiads and knocked the whole end off others dismounted nearly all the field
                                    guns in the fort in short they desroyed nearly everything in their range and forced
                                    the Con-feds to surrender- Sunday night we went back to our camp in the woods and
                                    remained there until monday night when we were called on to guard prisoners- were on
                                    guard until Tuesday when all the prisoners were on board the boats- We stayed at and
                                    near 
                                        Arkansas
                                     Post until to-day when we came down the river We were in the 
                                        Arkansas
                                     when I commenced this letter but at present are tied up in the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     near Napoleon. I don't know what we will do next some think we
                                    will try another trip to Vicksburg others that we will go some place up the river
                                    for my part I don't pretend to Know I 
                              
                                 9 The 16th Indiana led the charging columns in the
                                            four-hour attack, according to The Volunteer, November 7,
                                            1863.
                           
                                     forgot to say that Co E came off safe in the
                                    Battle which they owe to their good luck and a big log on the battle field several
                                    of the boys however received very slight wounds John Bolley had a ball pass too near
                                    his wrist for comfort Sergtj John Whiteford was struck on the hip by apiece of shell
                                    and is a little lame several more made narrow escapes. Co B. although the boys all
                                    run lost 2 Killed and eleven wounded the loss of the Regiment is seven Killed and
                                    over fifty wounded10
                        
                        There has been a great deal of sickness in our own and other Regiments since we went
                                    to the Chickasaw swamps our Company is not much more than half fit for duty but none
                                    I think are at all dangerous most of them very slight cases- My own health has held
                                    out remarkably I have been expecting for some time that it would come my turn to be
                                    sick but I have not been off duty since we left 
                                        Memphis
                                     and can only wish that I may continue as well as I have been since we
                                    have been on this campaign .…
                        Joe Fitz11 wishes me to write that he is well and in good spirits
                                    he seems to enjoy himself very well although I think the trip has been rather hard
                                    on suttlers- … Dr. Gatch is well and is doing good service both to the
                                    wounded and sick in fact he is the only surgeon we have that is any account
                        … If we stay as far south as we are at present I wish you would send me a
                                    paper occasionally as they are a very scarce article in this country for instance we
                                    have heard for some days rumors of a battle in 
                                        Tennessee
                                     but do not know the result
                        Write as often as you can
                        
                                    Wm H Jordan
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Near Vicksburg
                           
                                    June 8 1863
                                
                        Lieut Wm H. Jordan
                        Dear Sir
                        I have just received your Kind letter dated May 27" which encourages me and
                                    the company in the hope of your recovery- and my desire to See you again among us in
                                    good health
                        Your letter finds me in good health with a company of 36 of the boys- all well and in
                                    the best of Spirits
                        The balance of co E is in Hospitals and are- as far as I can learn- doing well You
                                    left us in a dark and gloomy time and I Supposed that few would leave that place
                                    alive- but we Shortly after got permition [sic] to remove to
                                    Milikens Bend and from the time we left Youngs Point the health of the company
                                    improved- But Some could not recover and have Since died I suppose that you have
                                    been informed of the deaths that have occured in our co from time to time. The only
                                    deaths that have occured lately are Edmond A Kaster 
                              
                                 10
                                            The Volunteer of November 7, 1863, stated that the 16th
                                            Indiana sailed down the river to Young's Point where they spent
                                            several gloomy days. There were "muddy camps, … sickness
                                            and death … scarcely enough well men to bury the dead,"
                                            and the levee full of graves since it was the only land thereabouts not
                                            under water.
                              
                                 11 An advertisement in The Volunteer
                                            of November 7, 1863, solicited business for Joseph Fitzgerald, Sutler for
                                            the 16th Indiana.
                           
                                     and Clayborn H Morris. We have Vicks Surrounded and their communication cut off from every point- We are
                                    with in 100 yards of their fortifications- and are daily closing in our lines-
                        We drove the entire Rebel force from Port Gibson to the city and whiped them at every
                                    point. The 16" took the advance and was constantly in the field and front
                                    Fighting all day and doing "Picket duty" at night- And when the
                                    charge was ordered on the 22n ult we advanced- against the
                                    fortifications and held our ground till relieved12 It was a hot
                                    place- and had it not been for our incessant firing we would have all been cut to
                                    pieces- We were with in Speaking distance of the enemy- and So close that I threw a
                                    piece of Shell in among them four of our Co were wounded Orderly Sims slightly in
                                    arm Frederick Dixon Slightly in hand Corporal Russell Severely in the Side James A.
                                    Parsons- Slightly- all are doing well-
                        You will See a ful and honest description of our travels and Battles in the
                                    Commercial of June 1st from correspondent MACK I give him credit for writing the
                                    most honest history of the entire army Corpse with out regard to States of any that
                                    I have Seen-
                        We will take Vicksburg- unless a large army is Sent to our rear-if So they will be
                                    forced to give up other important points- The boys and rebel Pickets talk while on
                                    duty. A few evenings Since I was on Picket and after we had been firing at each
                                    other all day the rebs quit firing at night and in a little whill one came out and
                                    asked us to quit firing for they were tired and wanted to get Supper- Another asked
                                    us what we were doing- the boys told him that we were guarding Prisoners
                                    .…
                        The only change in the co is C. B. Miller details as Hospital Steward in Hospital at
                                    Head Qts but I had him reduced to the ranks first and Sims placed on the list as
                                    orderly Sgt. That left a vacancy and I appointed Joseph Russell as 4" Sgt.
                        Col Lucas13 is Still after the Same old Style he has Several
                                    companies without com'd officers but he refuses to recommend any one. I
                                    learn that he Sent My recommendation but I have not asked him to
                        I do not advise you to return untill you are well I hope that you will visite 
                                        Patriot
                                    .
                        
                                    I am yours
                                    Respectfully
                                    Jas Stevenson
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Near Vicksburge, Miss
                           
                                    June 13the 1863
                                
                        (Lieut) Jordon Dear sir
                        Your kind Letter is Before me and allthough I have A Very Pore Chance to write I
                                    Shall endeavor to answer it
                        I Dont know as I can tell you any News as you have got all the 
                              
                                 12 From the charge on May 22 to July 4 the 16th
                                            Indiana had little rest, being at the front in trenches or on picket duty
                                            most of the time. The Volunteer, November 7, 1863.
                              
                                 13 Colonel Thomas J. Lucas was in command of the First
                                            Brigade, Tenth Division, Thirteenth Army Corps.
                           
                                     Purticulaurs By way of the Paper about our
                                    fighting, their has Been Nothing Don Since the 22the worth mentioning, I tell you
                                    Lieutenant we have Seen the Elephant this trip we have got So used to Balls and
                                    Shells that if we are A Sleep is Dosnot waike us up their has Scaircly Been A Day
                                    Passed Since the first Day of May But we have heard the Balls whistle over our heads
                                    we have Been very Lucky in our Company we have had None killed and But four wounded
                                    Fred Dixon two fore fingers off his Right hand Jim Parsons first finger off Robert
                                    Russel Badly the Ball Struck him in the left Side and Came out at his back the Ball
                                    Passing through his Left Lung he is Pretty Bad But the Doctors think he will git
                                    well, they Seam to have A Spite at me they give me A Slight wound above my Right
                                    elbow I Cant See what they have against me. I never Don them any harm I airways
                                    k[n]ew the Rebs was Cairless how they Shot But they was more So the Day of the
                                    Charge than ever But I was very fortunate to git off as well as I Did for had it
                                    Come with A Little more force it would have Ruined my arm entirely … I
                                    Sopose you know more about the movements of the army than I Do for you know A
                                    soldier knows But Little about what is gowing to Be Don all we know is what we See
                                    and that Dosnot extend A greate ways for we are Cept Pretty Close We are Laying in A
                                    Bigg hollow about nine hundred Yards from the Fort our Pickets is within two hundred
                                    Yards in Places, we have Been Diging Rifle Pitts ever since the Day of the Charge,
                                    we Ceep working A Little Closter evry Day or two (that is our Pickets) I Cant tell
                                    how Long it will take to Siege the Place two and three Rebs Comes over Per Day and
                                    Gives themselfs up Some of them Say they Canot hold out But A fiew Days while others
                                    Say we Can never take the Place But I feel Confident that we will have the Place and
                                    that Before A greate while, I understand that General Burnside arived hear Last
                                    Night with his force from up the River The Reble Prisoners tells us that their onley
                                    hope is in an attact in the Rear But if any thing of the kind Should happen I guess
                                    old Grant will Be able for them I hope So at Least I never want to have to make an
                                    other trile at it, when we Leave this old hollow I want to go Right into the Citty
                                    of Vicks-burge
                        Well, I Guess I have told all I Can think of at this time You wished me to Send you A
                                    morning Report I will Send you A List of Names Present as I Canot Send a Regulaur
                                    Report for I have not Seen our Company Books Since we crossed the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     River all our tents trunks and Books and knapsacks is Back in the Rear
                                    they will Be up to Day or to morrow, I wish you was hear with us we have A Greate
                                    Deel of Sport with our hardshipps you Spoke of Sending in your resignation Papers if
                                    your health will allow it I want you to Come Back But if your health is to Pore to
                                    Stand the hardships of A Soldiers Life I would Be the Last Man to insist on your
                                    Coming Back as to me having my wiers set for that position, I intend to Do But
                                    Little if the Boys should want me to fill the Place I will Do it if their is any
                                    Body els in the Company that would Suite them Better I want them to have him (Capt)
                                    Tirrels Resignation Papers has Been accepted and forwarded on to him, I  have understood that (Col) Lucas has sent up to Govenor
                                        Morton14 Recomending Steavenson for Captain and Your
                                    honerable Self for 1th (Lieut) and myself for 2th (Laeut) whether it is true or not
                                    I Canot say, Sofar as I have heard the Boys is all Ancious for you and myself to Be
                                    the (Lieuts) But if you Git able to Stand Soldiering Just Come on and we will make
                                    it all Right But I have written more now than you will Cair about Reading unless it
                                    was more interesting then this is, So I will Give you A List of the men Present and
                                    then Close Befor I do that however I will Give you the Names of thoes that has Died
                                    and thoes Discharged Since we Left the Bend
                        
                           Died at the Bend
                           Dave Barras
                           Claib Morris
                           Discharged
                           Luther 
                                            Mason
                                        
                           
                           Anday Gillmore
                           Jos Huber
                           Jno Anderson
                           Jos Russel
                           Jno Clark
                           Robt Russel
                           Jno Kittle
                           Wash Werts
                           Purdy Piatt
                           Wm Morton
                           Oliver Piatt
                           Thomas Duncan
                           Jno Dolley
                           Wm Britz
                           Alx 
                                            Campbell
                                        
                           
                           Pat Carty
                           Theo Courtney
                           Jno Cunningham
                           Rot Clark
                           Geor Deafenbaugh
                           Fred Daman
                           Wm Folich
                           Christ Gabler
                           Jake Lamont
                           Oliver Larrison
                           Phil Lantz
                           Lorenz Manlief
                           Mark Morton
                           Present
                           Jno Sims sergt.
                           Jno Whiteford
                           Wm Jennings
                           Saml McMullen
                           Geor Mendle
                           Robert Manlief
                           Henry Mintzman
                           Lew Piatt
                           Jas Parsons
                           Geor Rush
                           Wm Tibby
                           Omer Tibbets
                           Jery Weller
                           Philip Weller
                           Pery Willson
                           Wm Willson
                           Thos Wallace
                           Ed Kaster was taken Sick at Port
                           Gibson and was hauled two miles this side of Black River and their Died Jno
                                        Cunninghams Discharge Papers is gowing through all the other Boys not mentioned
                                        is up the River 60 is our agrigate now I will Close.
                        
                        
                                    Please write soon and often
                                    Jno Sims to (Lieut) Jordon
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Vickeburg
                           
                                    Aug 17th 1863
                                
                        Dear Mother
                        I have now been in this camp over a week and have enjoyed 
                              
                                 14 Oliver P. Morton was Governor of Indiana from 1861
                                            to 1867.
                           
                                     myself very well15 my health
                                    is as good if not better than it was when I left home and the weather is very little
                                    hotter than in Indiana- There have been several changes in this army since I came
                                    down our division is now the 4th Br. Gen Lawler16 of the 13th
                                    Army Corps Gen Washburne commanding17 our Brigade is under Col
                                    Owen" of the 60th Ind
                        I have been detailed from the Regt. to command the Ambulance Corps of the 4th
                                    Division and have now been on duty two days- I consider it a piece of very good luck
                                    as it is the easiest position in the Division I have twenty ambulances one Wagon
                                    Fifty-four horses and mules and a tent and horse and saddle for my own use with
                                    nothing to do but see that the men get their supplies and make the details for duty
                                    and more than all am subject to no one except the Medical Director and Quartermaster
                                    of the Division I think I shall like the place very well if I have to go down the
                                    river with the army which we will do in a few days the 13th Army Corps having been
                                    lent to Gen Banks for service in the Gulf Department and will probably all be away
                                    from this place in a very few days destination supposed to be Mobile which it is
                                    said will be taken by regular approaches charging fortifications not being as
                                    popular with this army as before Vicksburg every body having taken a fancy [to] a
                                    soldier with the pick and spade rather than rifles
                        … The company are all well and in fine spirits I think they look better
                                    than I ever saw them before
                        Direct your letters to 16th Regt Vicksburgh.…
                        
                                    Wm H Jordan
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Near Vermillionville La
                           
                                    Nov 13th 1863
                                
                        Dear Mother
                        I received your letter of Oct 19th some days since and should have answered before
                                    but have been so very busy I have had no time to do anything
                        Since Gen. Burbridges Battle at Carrion Crow19 the Army has all
                                    been in Camp at this place and the enemy are close to our lines every day firing on
                                    Pickets and gobbling stragglers and no one dare go beyond the lines without a strong
                                    escort- About a week ago four companies of our Regt went out on a scout and lost
                                    Capt. McFeely of Co. G and two men prisoners- two days after two Brigades went to
                                    Reconnoitre at Carrion Crow we went in sight of our old camp-driving rebel Pickets
                                    nearly all the way- when the Rebs came out on 
                              
                                 15 Jordan evidently missed the march of the 16th
                                            Indiana to Jackson. For ten days following the fall of Vicksburg, the 16th
                                            pursued Joseph E. Johnston's army. During that time they went
                                            without change of clothing or half enough to eat. The
                                            Volunteer, November 7, 1863.
                              
                                 16 Brigadier General Michael K. Lawler
                              
                                 17 General Cadwallader C. Washburn became a Major
                                            General late in 1862.
                              
                                 18 Colonel Richard Owen.
                              
                                 19 In October and November Burbridge had several
                                            skirmishes at Carrion Crow Bayou and also at 
                                                Vermillion
                                             Bayou. The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of
                                                the Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies, Series 1,
                                            XXVI, part 1, pp. 317–319, 332–333.
                           
                                     the prairie in swarms like bees forming a line
                                    of Battle four or five thousand strong a very splendid thing to look at but
                                    dangerous to get too close to- our Artillery sent a few shells amongst them when we
                                    could see their ranks open and Artillery moving up our commander thought it time to
                                    be getting back home or where the infantry could support- a retreat was ordered and
                                    we started back closely followed by a strong force on both flanks but got into camp
                                    a loss of only two killed & twelve wounded in both Brigades
                        Gen. Lees 20 Cavalry Division has been formed into Brigades Col
                                    Lucas has command of the 1st which consists of the 1st Lee Cavalry 16th Ind. and
                                    87th 111. mounted Infantry- this leaves Col. Redfield in charge of our Regt.
                                    altogether an arrancement [sic] very satisfactory to all
                                    interested- .…
                        I am not on duty with the Co at present have been detailed to serve on General Court
                                    Martial and from the number of cases before the court think I will be on that duty
                                    some days
                        The health of the army here is as good as ever a sick man is hardly ever seen Write
                                    as often as you can direct to Vicksburg or 
                                        New Orleans
                                     and the letters will follow the Regt
                        
                                    Wm H Jordan
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp 16th Ind M't'd Inf>
                              New Iberia La
                           
                                    Nov 20th 1863
                                
                        Dear Mother
                        .… Since I wrote we have made another retreat and now have every thing
                                    concentrated at this place which at present is the head of Steamboat navigation on
                                    Bayou Teche and an important point if it is part of the plan of the campaign to hold
                                    this part of 
                                        Louisiana
                                     which I think very doubtful as part of the 13th Army Corps has already
                                    gone back to Breashear City it is said on their way to the 
                                        Texas
                                     Coast
                        We dont know what to think of our success in this campaign there have been no heavy
                                    battles and as long as our Army advanced the enemy retreated but as soon as we
                                    turned back they were close after us and have captured every straggler and forage
                                    train that fell in their way- The men call it Potomac War a great deal of strategy
                                    but very little fighting
                        The Cavalry Division started on some Kind of an Expedition this morning at 1
                                    O'clock it was thought to try to bring on a General Engagement- I hear
                                    yarns about prisoners captured and Regiments surprised but will believe nothing
                                    until our Regt comes back
                        I believe that Bayou 
                                        Vermillion
                                     was the first place I have seen since I left home that I did not get
                                    tired of before we left- I dont Know why it was- there was nothing there but the
                                    woods where we had our camp and the Bridge we burnt when we left but there was a
                                    fine country very near us and the town not far off and there was excitement enough
                                    in our duties to Keep us awake and the Blue Devil off I have done no duty with the
                                    Regiment for some days except in the retreat and think it doubtful if I do for some
                                    days to come I have quit volunteering my services and find I have an easier time
                                        
                              
                                 20 Brigadier General Albert L. Lee,
                           
                                     than when I first came in the army and did not
                                    know what they could make me do …
                        I have seen but two or three papers since I left 
                                        New Orleans
                                     and dont Know anything outside of this Army- if peace has been declared
                                    down East we dont Know it.
                        
                                    Wm H Jordan
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp 16th Ind. Mtd Inf.
                              New Iberia La
                           
                                    Dec 22d 1863
                                
                        Dear Mother
                        I received your letter of Nov 30th and the papers you sent the other day was glad to
                                    get them as news are a scare article in this country- we sometimes get 
                                        New Orleans
                                     papers but praises of Gen. Banks and long speeches about the Free State of 
                                        Louisiana
                                    
                        
                        We have no news in this army- everything is very quiet here but we begin to see signs
                                    of a move- which way it will be I dont know but it is generally thought that it will
                                    be in the dirrection of Breashear City
                        Orderly Simms started home the other day and I have forgotten if I wrote you since- I
                                    sent you $100- by him which you can use as you see proper try and hire
                                    some one to do your work and live as easy as you can. I wish I could send you a
                                    nigger in a letter we have more here than we have use for
                        The last of the 13th Army Corp left here a few days ago and a few Regts of the
                                    Cavalry Division are all the western troops left and I think they would all prefer
                                    to be back in the old Department
                        We have had a very pleasant winter so far a few cold days and a few rainy nights when
                                    picket duty was not agreeable but we find that in any country in the winter- if we
                                    dont find harder times than since we left 
                                        New Orleans
                                     I will be satisfied
                        The Court Martial on which I have been serving so long adjourned to-day and I
                                    reported to the Regt for duty I suppose that if there is a call soon for a detail
                                    from this Regt. I will have to go as there is but one other line officer not in
                                    command I think I shall try to go home in the spring now Leaves of Absence are out
                                    of the question and very few can resign except for the good of the service and I
                                    dont care about going out that way
                        I will write again if we move soon
                        
                                    Wm H Jordan
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp 16th Ind Mtd Inf
                              Jefferson City La.
                           
                                    Jan 24th 1864
                                
                        Dear Mother
                        We are again in Camp in 
                                        New Orleans
                                     and have begun regular camp duty- to-day was the first Sunday
                                    Inspection we have had for three months- although we have been so few days here the
                                    men are wishing themselves back in the field but we will probably stay here some
                                    time as the Regiment has been placed in Garrison to perfect itself in drill and
                                    Military discipline
                        We left 
                                        Franklin
                                     on the morning of the 19th and marched to Berwick the same day waited
                                    all that night and nearly all the next day before we could get ferried over the bay
                                    then waited until next morning before the cars would start got to Algiers that night
                                         and crossed to the City and went into camp
                                    in an old Brick Yard .…
                        I should like very well to come home if the Eegt is to remain in quarters but think
                                    the prospect poor- if they will not let me resign I may accept a position in one of
                                    the Nigger Regts.
                        The weather for some days has been very pleasant and the Roads are good again the
                                    Planters in the La Fourche Country have begun their plowing and we expect to begin
                                    our springs work in a few weeks- The health of the Regt is very
                                    good but I expect to hear of sickness before long as the men will eat all the pies
                                    and other trash they have money to buy
                        I believe there is nothing that I want you could send by Orderly Simms as we can buy
                                    almost anything here but have to pay dearly for everything- I hope Simms will
                                    succeed in recruiting enough men to entitle him to his Commission.
                        
                                    Wm H Jordan
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    New Orleans
                                  La
                           
                                    Feb 17th 1864
                                
                        Dear Mother
                        Mr. Fitzgerald expects to start for home to-day and has promised to take this letter
                                    for me it will not be necessary for me to write much for he can tell you all the
                                    news if there is any- He will take you two copies of a Photograph of the Court
                                    Martial on which I am serving- one of which please Keep for me, as I wish to have it
                                    framed when I come home.
                        Our Regiment is under marching orders- it is supposed for 
                                        Franklin
                                     but it may be some other place- I will not go with the Regt unless
                                    relieved from duty here which I do not expect
                        I went to the Theatre for the first time a few nights ago- met Mr. John F. Collins
                                    who is Deputy Collector of Customs for this Port- he has his family here and is
                                    taking an active part in the present political Campaign- I have not seen his family
                                    yet called once but the ladies were out- will call again in a few days and write you
                                    what I think of them- he has two very pretty children
                        … I have pay due from the 1st of Nov. but do not know when I will get it
                                    as there is no money in the Department at present. my pay will just about keep me in
                                    the company I am obliged to keep while on this duty but I can save some when we go
                                    in the field again and will send what I can to you to Keep things going until I can
                                    get out of the Army
                        I am in good health as I have been since we left Vicksburgh. I think the climate here
                                    agrees with me as well as that at home
                        
                                    Wm H Jordan
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp 16th Ind. Mounted Inf
                              Near 
                                    Franklin
                                  La.
                           
                                    March 6th 1864
                                
                        Dear Mother
                        You will see from the heading of my letter that I have made another move. I left 
                                        New Orleans
                                     last Tuesday morning came to Brashear City on the cars and then to this
                                    place by Steamboat found all well and quiet- our tent pitched on the same ground it
                                    was on when we were here in January- it very seldom happens that we camp twice in
                                    the same place but it may be more than once in the coming Campaign as we will
                                    probably march over our old route of last October- troops are coming up from the
                                    City every day and we have  every evidence that
                                    we shall have a forward movement and stirring times before many weeks I hope so as I
                                    am heartily tired of laying around Cities and Camps with little or nothing to do I
                                    want some excitement to Keep life in me think a scout or Picket Guard in face of the
                                    enemy would do me more good than anything else
                        You need not think that I am tired of your letters because you write of business
                                    matters as that is what interests me as much, at this time as anything could- ... I
                                    will help you through all I can and I Know that if you have to pay only half as high
                                    for what you buy as I do that you will need all we both can raise to Keep up- my own
                                    expenses while in the city run so high that I was compelled to draw my pay to the
                                    last of Dec. in advance of the Regiment- …
                        I left Mr. Hugh McMullen in 
                                        New Orleans
                                     suppose he has gone home before this time he can tell you all the news-
                                    promised to take you some Engravings which I thought very good and valued highly as
                                    they are the only capture I have made since I left home
                        
                                    Wm H Jordan
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Shreveport La
                           
                                    Jan 5th 1865
                                
                        Dear Mother
                        You no doubt have heard ere this the circumstances of my capture along with a portion
                                    of my Co while on a scout down Grand Caillon La Nov 23d21 since
                                    then we made a long and very fatigueing march to 
                                        Alexandria
                                     where I was left behind and only arrived here yesterday- I find the
                                    Officers & men captured with me in very good health and spirits my own
                                    health you are aware had not been very good sometime previous to my capture and has
                                    not improved since that time
                        The Authorities propose to make a special Exchange of myself for Lt. I C Clemson who
                                    was captured near Bolivar 
                                        Mississippi
                                     Sept. 1863 and has been confined at Johnsons Island Lake 
                                        Erie
                                    
                        
                        I have written Mr. Collins to make the necessary application at 
                                        New Orleans
                                     and wish that you would have Judge Holman22 or such
                                    other influential firends as you may have do the same at 
                                        Washington
                                     and use such means as may be in their power to effect an Exchange at as
                                    early a day as possible.23
                        
                        
                                    Very truly yours
                                    Wm H Jordan
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  21 Possibly the action in which he was captured is described in The War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the Official Records of the Union and
                            Confederate Armies, Series 1, XLI, part 1, p. 932.
               
                  22 William Steele Holman (1822-1897), Indiana jurist and politician,
                        represented his Indiana constituency in Congress from 1859 to 1897, with the exception of eight
                        years. Because of his opposition to extravagant appropriations, he was known as. "The
                        Great Objector" and "The Watchdog of the Treasury." 
                            Israel
                         G. Blake, the Holmans of Veraestau (
                     Oxford, Ohio
                  , 1943), 43, 203, 223–226.
               
                  23 He was taken to Tyler, 
                            Texas
                        , and confined there by the Confederates. He was paroled, joined his regiment at 
                            New Orleans
                        , and was mustered out in that city, 
                            Lawrenceburg
                        , Indiana, Register, February 16, 1911.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Undying Past and other Addresses. By Christopher B. Coleman. (
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana, State Library and Historical Board and Indiana Historical Society, 1946, pp.
                    169. $1.00.)
            Some persons, revered by their friends, are memoralized by the publication of essays or papers
                    written by these friends. A different procedure was adopted in the case of Christopher B. Coleman. A
                    series of his own addresses, twelve in number, was published in memory of his long and faithful
                    devotion to history.
            Both methods have their merits. The latter has one advantage at least; it gives the reader an insight
                    into the mental operations and attitudes of the one being memoralized. Coleman is no exception. This
                    series of addresses constitutes a sort of mental biography of the man.
            In his first address, "The Undying Past," which gives title to the book, we have
                    Coleman's expression of the sense if not of the essence of history. By and large, to every
                    one except the historian, the past is dead and even the poet would bury it. Words, thought Coleman,
                    may be of greater significance than the deeds which they describe. "The right
                    interpretation of events," he said, "may well be of greater importance than the
                    events themselves. …" He deplored that we are more impressed by deeds than by
                    words. Words, to him, as are found in the 
                        Gettysburg
                     Address, give expression to ideals which are all too commonly not found in deeds. As a
                    "worker in history" he proposed to preserve the records of both deeds and words,
                    and such records, he insisted, should "reveal an undying past which calls upon the present
                    to be dedicated to high enterprise." Only in this way could the historical record have
                    meaning.
            In his, "The 
                        Lincoln
                     Legend," Coleman presented the idea, perhaps, not commonly held, that 
                        Lincoln
                     rose to greatness, not in spite of his early environment but because of it. The very
                    meagerness of his opportunities stimulated 
                        Lincoln
                     to take full advantage of those he had. Besides, "The popular 
                        Lincoln
                     legend, which has been reiterated by prominent historians, with its emphasis upon the
                    unfavorable environment of his early years, is a distortion of his life." That environment
                    was a progressive, forward looking one. It  was that environment
                    plus other factors that made of him "The prophet and the statesman of democratic
                    nationalism. …"
            In his "Rediscovering the Old Northwest," Coleman discussed various conflicting
                    views as to how this great area was acquired by the 
                        United States
                     and what is or should be included in it. He deplored the lack of interest in and
                    knowledge of the history of the area on the part of its citizens. He regretted the absence of any
                    co-operative effort among the five states comprising it toward a common commemoration of its past.
                    To him it comprised a historical unit and he presented a number of arguments to prove his point.
                    Many historical facts, as would be expected, are to be found in this address.
            Coleman did not confine himself to his vocation but in "Life and Letters" turned
                    art and literary critic. Both art and literature, he felt, should portray life. He condemned college
                    authorities for setting up "fusion" courses as a short cut "which left
                    the poor freshmen utterly bewildered." As a bit of intellectual honesty he said:
                    "I did not, when I first read it [Education of Henry Adams'], understand
                    its philosophy of history, nor do I now." Yet he felt that "its devastating
                    criticism of the futilities which most of us accept is tonic for the soul." As a matter of
                    literary history he rejected Carlyle and the Great Man theory of history. "... the progress
                    of the race has come about more largely through unreasoned response to changing conditions than
                    through orderly advances conducted by clear-sighted leaders." He paid his respects to the
                    "power of the written word" yet admitted that it "is … subject
                    to great limitations."
            One fault I find with the book is the fact that the reader must turn to the back to find when and on
                    what occasion each address was delivered. Thus, when the author, in "Traditions of
                    Indiana," says, "Such are the times in which we now find ourselves," one
                    must stop and look up the "Times" referred to. This information might well have
                    been placed at the beginning of each address. This certainly would be more convenient for the
                    reader. To pass to the address itself the author especially listed and emphasized the traditions of
                    worthy heritage, thrift and combative spirit.
            Coleman hit on something pretty solid when in "Morale" he said: "It does
                    not necessarily improve people's morale  to have the
                    government do things for them. The more that is done for some people, the more they want to have
                    done for them. Some of the clamor for building morale comes near to blackmail. From much of it the
                    inference might be drawn that if the enemy promises to do more than one's own country,
                    persons or groups concerned will transfer their affections." Morale, he felt, was not so
                    superficial or of such sudden achievement but grew out of a people's long struggle upward.
                    This paper is short–so short as to whet one's appetite for more. But maybe such
                    brevity, such whetting is an evidence of art.
            Naturally, as evidence of the position he held, Coleman's chief interest lay in state and
                    local history. In an address dealing with local history he expressed the feeling that history
                    teaching is overemphasized in high school and college, that such teaching is made something of an
                    end in itself and that as a result interest in history does not carry over sufficiently into
                    post-formaUeducation life.
            Without doubt Coleman would be rated as conservative by the liberal. He opposed change for the sake
                    of change. "Changes," he said, "can be overdone .… Changes
                    which ought to be evolutionary, have become revolutionary. … " And
                    "success of the new" which brought "ruin to the old" he felt to
                    be unnecessary. Throughout the addresses he is uniformly and definitely serious, with the exception
                    of "A Change of Subject." Here he displays a delicate sense of humor, probably to
                    be fully appreciated only by persons familiar with literary clubs, before one of which this address
                    was delivered. But even here he was quite serious before he finished. For the moment he cast aside
                    his role of historian, or perhaps deluded himself in believing that he did, for even in "A
                    Change of Subject" there are light touches of history. Coleman was unable to change the
                    subject completely.
            The book closes on a somewhat pessimistic note. In "Action and Reaction" the author
                    was inclined to make life seem rather futile. He demonstrated, by a variety of examples, that man,
                    in his effort to make progress, more or less defeats his own ends. Perhaps every action instituted
                    by man, for good or ill, produces its reaction which will in turn mean both good and ill for
                    society. To cite but one example, the Industrial Revolution has been both a blessing and a curse. It
                    is perhaps impossible to lift the burden from some one's back without placing it on the
                    back of some  one else. And to consider all possible reactions
                    which may result from any contemplated action "does not necessarily make one a
                    reactionary," Coleman insisted. But he ended on a fairly happy note: "I would be a
                    cheerful pessimist."
            The "Epilogue" is a brief biographical sketch of Coleman, written by Anton
                    Scherrer.
            If a cupped binding is evidence of poor workmanship or cheap material then these faults went into the
                    making of my volume. The printing, however, was well done and on good paper. But regardless of minor
                    defects the little volume will be appreciated by all of Coleman's many friends and will be
                    stimulating reading for any one. It is well worth the price of a dollar.
            Fred E. Brengle
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Lincoln
                        's Other Mary. By Olive Carruthers. Appendix by R. Gerald McMurtry.
                            (
                  Chicago, Illinois
               , Ziff-Davis Publishing Company, 1946, pp. 229.
                    Bibliographical appendix, facsimile, and portrait. $2.50.)
            For the book-reading American public, 
                  
                            Lincoln
                        's Other Mary has a double-barreled appeal. To those who delight in
                    stories, it is a tale well told of the young restless 
                        Lincoln
                     learning the feel of his own weight in frontier life and politics, learning the feel
                    upon him of the alternating pull and push of handsome, educated Mary Owens of 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        New Salem
                    . To those who search out facts, whose full allegiance is reserved for the authenticated
                    document, the book brings its own credentials–complete texts of the major records on
                    which it stands. In fact, for many R. Gerald Mc-Murtry's documentary
                    "appendix," in which he tells of his chance encounter with the Nathaniel Owens
                    plantation some years back and his subsequent interest in Nathaniel's daughter, Mary, who
                    turned down 
                        Lincoln
                     and yet managed to escape with only passing mention at the hands of a mass of 
                        Lincoln
                     writers–for many the "appendix" will out weigh in interest
                    the body of the story to which it is attached.
            Nor is that fact the fault of Miss Carruthers' sensitively done narrative. Her study, though
                    interpretive and, of necessity, in part imagined, is truthful. The facts are there, many of them.
                    But more important to the atmosphere of credibility which pervades her book is Miss Carruthers'
                    skill in changing her people as circumstances play upon them. 
                    History determines the route her people shall take, but she reconstructs convincingly (to speak
                    fantastically a moment) the crossing steam of traffic and the changing street lights that help
                    deflect the driver from an appointment already long delayed. It was most interesting to watch the
                    red lights, several of them, play on the romance. Impediment, at first, acted as an impetus, piqued
                    the hero's pride. Its frequent repetition, however, contrasted with the exhilerating
                    currents of activity in Vandalia and strange new life in 
                        Springfield
                    , made Mary Owens seem "only a nagging bit of unfinished business"
                    which should be consummated one way or the other. Such a metaphor, of course, leads to
                    oversimplification. Miss Carruthers says all that but does not leave her analysis of the 
                        Lincoln
                    -Owens relationship with so pat a conclusion.
            A second arresting thing in Miss Carruthers' work is a not infrequent happy harmony between thought
                    and phrase. The ability to find words which do more than expose, which illumine their thought, is a
                    skill satisfying alike to the writer and the reader. 
                        Lincoln
                     was possessed by restlessness, Miss Carruthers says. What kind of
                    restlessness? A restlessness "that wouldn't let him set his foot down
                    in one place long enough to make a track." How would it seem to his friends if 
                        Lincoln
                     were to marry? Why, "like hitchin' an eagle to a
                    hand-plow." And after Vandalia, what was 
                        New Salem
                     like? Betrayed by the drying Sangamon River, 
                        New Salem
                     "was a bubble that had burst, and you couldn't pick up the vapor in
                    your hands and make a bubble out of it again." As for his friends?
                    They'd all be going soon. "Nothing here. Nothing but his youth, his long lazy
                    dreams .… Dead youth, dead dreams, dead town. And you couldn't sit up with a
                    corpse forever."
            So much for the story. What of its foundation? Is it built on memories some thirty-one
                    years old and buttressed with conjecture?
            In his appendix McMurtry prints the complete texts of seven letters written by the two people most
                    able to speak with authority on the romance, 
                        Lincoln
                    's letters to Mary, three of them, his single eccentric epistle to Mrs. 0. H.
                    Browning, and Mrs. Mary Owens Vineyard's three replies to William Herndon's
                    questionnaires. Those documents, with the one curious exception, tell a straight forward, consistent
                    story of the relationship.
            
            That one exception, however, so tantalized the reviewer during the first reading of 
                  
                            Lincoln
                        's Other Mary that she caught herself fairly peeking behind pages to
                    find some reference to it. There was none. "By what right," she asked herself,
                    "does a thorough biography of Mary Owens leave out evidence, primary evidence, in the case.
                    What if it does conflict? It exists and therefore ought to appear." Appear it
                    does with bibliographical and explanatory notes–in the appendix.
            Miss Carruthers, no doubt, felt that an April Fool's Day missive describing with gross
                    exaggeration and clumsy sarcasm the woman who rejected his repeated offers of marriage could add
                    little to a serious appreciation of the rejected Abe 
                        Lincoln
                    . She may have believed, too, that there would be many Isaac Arnolds and 
                        Milton
                     Hays among her readers who would be repulsed by it, as they were, and made defenseless,
                    while wishing to defend, their hero from charges of unkindness, insincerity and pathetically poor
                    taste. My own feeling is that Miss Carruthers could have used it with great effect. It could have
                    lent a, freshness and an unexpected twist–the sight of that letter being
                    written– as a period of 
                        Lincoln
                     despondency began to lift into part bitter, part blue, part gay self-satisfaction and
                    adequacy. That he meant it to entertain the Brownings and their circle only, she would have made
                    clear. His earnest request years later in the White House that it not be made public as long as any
                    of the principals were alive to be hurt by it, she could have given in one of her delightful scenes
                    just preceding the "Epilogue, Spring 1866." Miss Carruthers could have handled it
                    admirably, given her readers the feeling, if not the words, of the Herndon appraisal plus her own
                    broad and sympathetic insight into the vagaries of passing human moods and emotions. That she did
                    not choose to do so gave her story a lyrical ending (one completely in harmony with the book as a
                    whole) but reserved to the appendix one of the dramatic high spots of the tale.
            What else does the appendix hold? Of no slight use to the 
                        Lincoln
                     enthusiast is the running list of printed accounts of the Owens-
                        Lincoln
                     story. In the course of his four-year search, McMurtry found and recorded outstanding
                    articles in magazines and newspapers as well as pamphlets and chapters of books. A number of the
                    best and most curious of  these with a few words of evaluation
                    each appear in some one and a half pages.
            Almost immediately thereafter comes an account of William Herndon's successful investigation
                    of the Owens romance. About a year after 
                        Lincoln
                    's death, Mrs. Mary Owens Vineyard heard from the would-be biographer. In
                    response to his inquiries, she sent him her three letters from 
                        Lincoln
                     (to be copied and returned) filled out a questionnaire on the whole affair, corrected a
                    rumor, and added two anecdotes to his fund of information.
            Following Herndon's analysis of the 
                        Lincoln
                     letters which McMurtry quotes in some detail, are printed excerpts from two letters on
                    the romance written to Jesse W. Weik by Benjamin Vineyard, Mary Owens' son.
            And finally there is an account of the bringing to light by Lamon of the 
                        Lincoln
                    -Browning letter, mentioned above. The distress it produced in the thinking of some of 
                        Lincoln
                    's admirers, the various efforts at defense and explanation culminating in
                    Herndon's earnest, thoughtful attempt to interpret it, and a 
                        Lincoln
                     who could have written it, to himself and his readers–all are there. The
                    story of the documents themselves, then, including the present location of all the 
                        Lincoln
                     and some of the others, that is the appendix.
            There is one last question that must engage our attention for a moment. If Herndon and Lamon knew the
                    facts and others since their time have utilized them, why 
                  
                            Lincoln
                        's Other Mary? Before permitting McMurtry to answer in his
                    own defense, what can the reviewer say? Occasionally in its appearance in the earlier
                    works there have been minor mistakes, Mary cited as being in 
                        Kentucky
                    , for example, when actually she was again with her sister in 
                        New Salem
                    . McMurtry's research, moreover, has added details to the life of Mary Owens
                    which the earlier biographers did not know. In the second place, 
                  
                            Lincoln
                        's Other Mary is to all the other accounts read by this reviewer what
                    the scene, in its effect of reader participation, always is to the narrative second-hand report.
                    Here we are not told that Mary became angry when Abe failed to carry Mrs. 
                        Bowling Green
                    's baby up the hill. Here we see them all climbing, Abe talking of a county
                    road, curbing his long stride to match the women walking, clumsily helping Mary, waiting patiently
                    while Mrs. Green stops for breath and shifts her heavy baby from one arm to  the other, and at last Mary's slowly growing irritation
                    flaring to spoil the day for both of them. The scene type with its conversation and details is
                    fictionized history? Yes, but with the appendix telling the reader exactly where to draw
                    the line between the real and the imagined only good is done. McMurtry's added information
                    and the entire tale unfolded panorama-like through some one hundred and ninety pages, those two
                    things should earn for the book a hearing.
            But McMurtry has other reasons. "A complete account of the 
                        Lincoln
                    -Owens romance," he tells us, "with all the significant letters and
                    documents pertaining to the affair, along with biographical data on Mary Owens, has not yet been
                    collected in book form .… The real value of this study is that both the casual reader and
                    the exacting student can more fully analyze and understand 
                        Lincoln
                     during that important period of his life when he was groping about trying to find
                    himself. We hope," he continues, "that this study will also give a new portrait of
                    a woman who had all the qualities of a Todd, who saw in him just as much as Mary Todd saw, but who
                    voluntarily declined the road to honor and glory because he was 'deficient in those little
                    links which make up the chain of a woman's happiness.' "
            Geneva Warner
         
         
            
               Edward Eggleston. By William P. Randel. (Morningside Heights, 
                        New York
                    , King's Crown Press, 1946, pp. xi, 319. Bibliography and index.
                    $3.50.)
            The chief merit of this biography is the clear presentation of the man. The author has studied his
                    subject until he knows him quite thoroughly. Eggleston's decision not to become a 
                        Virginia
                     planter and his subsequent entrance into the Methodist ministry as a circuit rider
                    appears natural in view of his inheritance and early environment. A few years of preaching on the 
                        Minnesota
                     frontier and a short period in which he lectured, sold books, and wrote for magazines
                    paved the way for his connection with the editorship of the Independent. He
                    developed his literary ability while in this position and while editor of the Hearth
                        and Home. The appearance of his serial story, "The Hoosier School
                    Master," marked the beginning of his literary career. It was followed by The
                        End of the World, The Mystery of Metropolisville, The Circuit Rider, The Graystons, and
                    other novels, short stories, and  articles. An interlude in his
                    literary work was his three-year ministry at the "creedless" church in 
                        Brooklyn
                    , although he did not give up writing entirely. Eggleston's life was almost a
                    constant struggle with his early religious convictions and his sense of duty.
            Having failed to find satisfaction in a liberal ministry, ned, after a vacation, to research and
                    writing in the history of American life. Here was a field which held his interest for the remainder
                    of his life. His first volume of social history was published in 1896 as The Beginners
                        of a Nation, A History of the Source and Rise of the Earliest English Settlements in America
                        with Special Reference to the Life and Character of the People. In recognition of his
                    writing, particularly on historical subjects, he was elected president of the American Historical
                    Association. His presidential address was entitled "The New History." A second
                    volume, The Transit of Civilization from 
                            England
                         to America in the Seventeenth Century had only recently appeared. The vision
                    expressed in his presidential address was at best very imperfectly embodied in these two volumes and
                    particularly the latter. He should be known, however, for his historical work because his
                    contribution to history may prove to be more significant than to the novel.
            The real story about Eggleston is Eggleston, not his poetry, his novels, his short stories, his
                    preaching, his lectures, or his history. Could he have received historical training in his early
                    life and have devoted his mature years to historical writing, he might have been a great historian.
                    As it was, he revealed his elements of greatness in struggling against bad health, and prejudices
                    early acquired, until he found his way by a circuitous route to a great vision. But old age and poor
                    health closed upon him and the embodiment of his vision remained for others to accomplish. He was
                    not a great novelist or a great historian, merely a man who struggled upward against great odds.
            The physical characteristics of this volume are rather poor. The binding would endure very little use
                    if English or History classes were given assignments in it. It is unfortunate that war conditions
                    deprived it of a sturdier physique.
            The author has prepared an extensive bibliography of Eggleston's papers, letters, and
                    manuscripts, and of his published writings, which will be of value especially to scholars.  Errors of fact seem to be at a minimum and the author is to be
                    commended for a very useful study.
            John D. Barnhart
         
         
            
               The Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        . Compiled and edited by Clarence Edwin Carter. Volume XII, The
                        Territory of 
                            Michigan
                        , 1829–1837, Continued. (
                        Washington
                    , Government Printing Office, 1945, pp. vii, 1378. Index. $4.50.)
            This volume is of particular interest to students of 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                     history, of the careers of Lewis Cass and Henry R. Schoolcraft, and of the functioning
                    of the Jackson-ian administration. It contains documents illustrating the removal of the Indians,
                    the development of internal improvements, and the effect of the frontier on the character of
                    American democracy. It is concerned with the years 1829–1837, when the great outpouring
                    of New Englanders into the Great Lakes region assumed such large proportions. It contains more than
                    twelve hundred pages of material. The same careful selection of representative and significant
                    documents, and the scholarly work in editing with ample footnotes, containing references to
                    additional material, which have become standard to the series, marks this volume.
            From time to time volumes of The Territorial Payers of the 
                            United States
                        
                have appeared and have made available for historians and other scholars
                    important documents concerning frontier history, the growth of government in the territories, the
                    rise of the western states, the pacification and removal of the Indians, and the expansion of the
                    agencies for defense, the delivery of the mail, and the survey and sale of land. Two years have
                    passed since this third volume of 
                        Michigan
                     Territorial documents has appeared. It is to be hoped that means will be provided for
                    the continuance of the series without further delay. The various volumes have been well received and
                    the historical profession has given ample recognition to the scholarly work of its editor, Clarence
                    E. Carter.
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            CLARK COUNTY MARRIAGE RECORDS, 1820–18241
            
            
                    Dorothy Riker
                
            The dates given are those of the marriage licenses. In many instances, there are no returns to show
                    the dates of marriage. Those that are recorded show that the ceremony usually took place within a
                    week after the license was obtained. The names are sometimes difficult to decipher; no attempt has
                    been made to check them with other sources of information.
            
               John Fleeharty to Nancy Barnes, 5–9-1820, by John Todd.
               Littleton Mathes to Lidosia T. Moore, 5–10-1820.
               Gasper Abraham to Ann Matty Gibson (generally known and called Nancy Gibson),
                        5–17-1820, by Daniel C. Banks.
               Charles Barbour to Malinda Ray, 5–30-1820.
               John Cummings to Sarah Cummngs, 6–1-1820, by Samuel Patterson.
               William Yaw to Margaret Johnson, 6–3-1820.
               Aaron Prather, Jr. to Elizabeth Patrick, 6–5-1820, by John Prather.
               Benjamin Snow to Catherine Roads, 6–7-1820, by Samuel Patterson.
               Jacob Fisher to Sarah Robnett, 6–10-1820, by William G. Gulick.
               Daniel Higbee to Jane Anderson, 6–17-1820, by same.
               Nicholas Gassaway to Ann Williams, 6–19-1820.
               Samuel Younkn to Rachel Deitz, 6–24-1820, by John Carr.
               Enos Tuley to Ann Mosley, 7–8-1820.
               Isaac Howk to Elvira Vail, 7–13-1820, by John Todd.
               Charles Daley, Jr. to Catherine Stoner, 7–17-1820.
               John Worrall to Elizabeth Payne, 7–22-1820, by James McCoy.
               William Scott to Sylvia Parker (people of color), 7–25-1820, by John Carr.
               Daniel Woolverton to Elenor Hazard, 7–26-1820, by Lemuel Ford.
               Peter Quigley to Nancy Duttroe, 8–5-1820, by same.
               David J. Prather to Matilda Noon, 8–7-1820.
               Alvan Benson to Cynthia Vail, 8–7-1820, by Amos Goodwin.
               Jacob G. Giltner to Elizabeth Miller, 8–10-1820.
               Walter 
                            Spencer
                         to Elizabeth 
                            Spencer
                        , 8–11-1820, by Lemuel Ford.
               William Patrick to Nancy Harris, widow, 8–17-1820, by James. Garner.
               James Thompson to Jane Willis, 8–19-1820, by Mordicai Cole, M.G.
               Joseph Durfey to Elizabeth Smith, 8–19-1820, by John T. Littell.
               Alexander McClure to Elenor Wheatly, 8–19-1820, by Mordicai Cole.
               John Bishop to Elenor Hartley, 8–21-1820, by John Carr.
               Eazor 
                            Cleveland
                         to Mary Moore, 8–23-1820.
               Samuel Ramsey to Elenor Kime (?), 8–20-1820, by John Carr. 
                     
                        1 Continued from the March, 1946, issue of the Indiana Magazine of History. Compiled from microfilm copies of 
                                    Clark County
                                , Indiana, Marriage Records, Vol. B (1820-28), pp. l-59; in the Archives
                                Division of the Indiana State Library, 
                                    Indianapolis
                                , Indiana.
                  
               
               
               John Prather, Jr. to Mary Patrick, 8–29-1820, by John Prather.
               John Snider to Elizabeth Anderson, 9–9-1820, by Joseph Bower.
               Isham Wray to Mary Ann Fauntleroy, 9–21-1820.
               Isaac Cox to Elizabeth Dustin, 9–21-1820, by R. H. Murray.
               William R. Turner to Catherine Ninion, 9–25-1820, by Samuel Patterson.
               Richard Gallimore to Sarah Harmon, 9–25-1820, by Joseph Bower.
               Edward P. Green to Martha W. Weems, 10–11-1820, by Lemuel Ford.
               Stephen Harmon to Nancy Maria Hoyt (?), 10–14-1820, by William Kenyon.
               James Ramsey to Dorcas Ulmore, 10–19-1820, by John Warman.
               William Kersey to Ann Jachwinger (?), 10–21-1820, by Lemuel Ford.
               William L. W. W. Love to Mary Warren, 10–28-1820, by James Scott.
               Josiah King, widower, to Hetty Dunbar, widow, 10–30-1820.
               George Scott to Elenor Waskom, 11–1-1820, by John Prather.
               George Coons to Mary Beadles, 11–2-1820.
               Patrick Hopkins to Mary Bartholomew, 11–12-1820, by Calvin Ruter.
               George Deitz to Rewey Burris, 12–7-1820, by John Carr.
               Isaac Crosby to Betsey Davis (people of color), 12–13-1820, by James Scott, judge
                        of Indiana Supreme Court.
               John M. Robinson to Elizabeth Henderson, 12–18-1820, by John M. Dickey.
               Francis Watson to Elizabeth Adams, 12–19-1820, by Mordicai Cole.
               Andrew Bower (or Bowers) Jr. to Mary Lawrence, 12–22-1820, by Joseph Bower.
               James Linton to Adeline Ball, 12–26-1820, by John Todd.
               George White to Elizabeth Nesmith, 1–9-1821, by same.
               James S. Weems to Elizabeth Alexander, 1–11-1821, by Lemuel Ford.
               Jospeh Dorrell to Ann Knave, 1–12-1821.
               Thomas Mouzingo to Mary Gray, 1–12-1821, by Andrew Gwin.
               John Ross to Nancy Cooper, 1–13-1821, by John Todd.
               Peleg Lewis to Lois Bellows, 1–16-1821.
               William H. Chappell to Martha J. Smith, 1–16-1821, by William Robinson.
               Gilbert Ray to Betsey T. Rogers, 1–19-1821, by John M. Dickey.
               Adam Stonesipher to May Reed, 1–22-1821, by John G. Pfrimmer.
               Ambrose C. Burk to Sarah McDonald, 1–25-1821, by James Scott.
               Alexander Watson to Jane Stone, 2–5-1821.
               Armstead Smith to Anarcha Oard, 2–10-1821, by James Scott.
               John C. Hagan to Rosanna Keller, 2–17-1821, by same.
               William Perkins to Sarah Dotson, 2–22-1821, by John Carr.
               Absalom Cox to Elizabeth Melone, 2–24-1821.
               Ely Watkins to Barbara Clutter (?), 3–6-1821, by William Robinson.
               John Donohew to Nancy Chappel, 3–9-1821, by John Carr.
               Clement Clifton to Mary Master, 3–14-1821, by C. Ruter.
               Ignatius A. Spalding to Jane G. Pottenger, 3–19-1821, by Lemuel Todd.
               John Scott to Margaret Bayhard (?), 3–26-1821, by Mordicai Cole.
               John Hawn to Sally Stacy, 4–4-1821.
               Peter Makowsky to Catherine Ann Hawn, 4–11-1821.
               Ebenezer S. McGarrah to Maria Patience Wright, 4–14-1821, by Samuel Glaze, Elder of
                        the Methodist Church.
               John C. Redman to Sarah Neal, 4–25-1821.
               
               Conrad Yoder to Mary Yoder, 4–25-1821, by Martin Huckleberry.
               James C. Park to Jane Matthews, 4–25-1821, by John Carr.
               Joseph Craig to Elizabeth Warnock, 4–27-1821.
               Robert McGee to Rebecca Yocum, 4–30-1821, by James Scott.
               David Stewart to Minta Gullett, widow, 5–7-1821, by John Carr.
               Nathaniel Hardy to Mary C. Hyde, 5–11-1821, by John Todd.
               William Guernsey to Lydia Cartwright, widow, 5–17-1821.
               John Keller to Rachel Hammitt, 5–19-1821, by Robert B. Henry.
               Lewis Varvel to Mary Oldham, 5–29-1821.
               Walter McConnel to Sarah Barnett, 6–6-1821.
               James Morrison to Jane T. Todd, 6–13-1821, by John Todd.
               Matthew Toulin, Jr. to May Jackson, 6–16-1821, by same.
               Henry G. Wilson to Rachel Worrall, 6–19-1821, by Lemuel Ford.
               Miller Biggs to Sarah McConnell, 6–20-1821, by John Reese, M.G.
               Abner Biggs to Emily Miller, 7–2-1821, by William Keynon.
               William Dickinson to Margarette Bell, 7–14-1821, by Orlando Raymond.
               William Fulton to Mary Lewis, 7–17-1821.
               Jesse Coombes to Lydia McCoy, 7–30-1821, by Amos Goodwin.
               Mowet Stone to Polly Cash, 7–31-1821.
               Archemedes Inman to Lavina Boyer, 8–7-1821, by Mordicai Cole.
               Thomas C. Johnson to Letitia Herrod, 8–20-1821.
               Abraham Copple to Sarah Copple, 8–21-1821.
               Samuel Hardesty to Susan Turner, 9–3-1821, by James Garner.
               Elijah M. Huff to Hila Allyn, 9–4-1821, by Henry Bottorff.
               James Robison to Frances Troutman, 9–7-1821, by Mordicai Cole.
               Leonard Borders to Lucinda Burge, 9–12-1821.
               John D. Jacob to Ruth Blizard, 9–12-1821, by James Garner.
               Wait Vaughan to Samantha Holt, 9–14-1821, by Abraham Ashton.
               David Drummond to Rebecca Beggs, 9–19-1821, by Mordicai Cole.
               Peter Whitesell to Elizabeth Aikin, 9–25-1821, by Orlando Raymond.
               Lyman Herrington to Anna Bullard, 9–27-1821, by Lemuel Ford.
               Thomas Worrall to Hannah Canfield, 10–3-1821, by Mordicai Cole.
               David Barrackman to Esther Garrison, 10–19-1821.
               Elias Bates to Abigail Parks, 11–1-1821.
               Joseph M. McConnaughley to Kitty Cassiday, 11–6-1821, by Thomas Allen. 
               Shem Hostetler to Barbara Bower, 11–17-1821, by Joseph Hostetler.
               John McKee to Lucinda Peyton, 11–21-1821.
               William Cummings to Elizabeth Robison, 11–26-1821, by John M. Dickey.
               Christian Crum to Nancy Stutsman, 11–27-1821, by Mordicai Cole.
               William Weidner to Fanny Kenyon, 11–27-1821, by same.
               William Gilson to Sarah McCormack, 11–29-1821, by Alexander Walker.
               James Stryker to Clarissa Willey, 12–3-1821, by Rezin Hammond.
               Elijah Peyton to Eliza Roberson, 12–5-1821.
               William Ruddell to Rebecca Tucker, 12–12-1821, by James Garner.
               Moses Rodgers to Elizabeth Hamilton, 12–14-1821, by John M. Dickey.
               Daniel H. Pratt to Catherine Cash, 12–17-1821, by Orlando Raymond.
               Francis Turner to Elizabeth Beadle, 12–19-1821, by James Garner.
               William Buckanan to Elizabeth Armstrong, 12–20-1821, by Mordicai Cole.
               Lloyd Cummings to Abigail Dunkin, 12–23-1821.
               William Hall to Jane Patrick, 12–27-1821, by James Garner.
               
               William Howard to Jane T. (?) Shaw, 12–28-1821.
               William Smith to Susan Scott, 1–1-1822, by John Todd.
               James Stacy to Sarah E. Bowen, 1–2-1822.
               Abraham Stark to Mary Tetrick, 1–2-1822, by John Reese.
               Harry Nelson to Naomi Stuart, 1–3-1822, by Orlando Raymond.
               Samuel T. McClintick to Holly Reynolds, 1–7-1822, by John Jackson.
               Lawson Drury, Jr., to Ann Smith, 1–12-1822, by William Robinson.
               Morgan Wright to Jane Allen, 1–21-1822, by Joseph Bower.
               Samuel Shake to Elizabeth Vigal, 1–23-1822. Married 3–12-22 by Mor-dicai
                        Cole, M.G.
               Henry Summers to Darkey Hudson, 1–31-1822.
               David Peveler (?) to Rebecca Calloway, 2–1-1822.
               James Nesmith to Mehitable Braman (?), 2–19-1822, by John Todd.
               John L. P. McCune to Lois (?) Newland, 2–23-1822, by James Garner.
               Presley Tyler to Mary Tyler, 2–28-1822, by William Keynon.
               Green Neeld to Hester Toben, 2–28-1822.
               Thomas Minor to Phillis Anderson (people of color), 3–2-1822, by Calvin Ruter, M.G.
               John Pike to Mary Moon, 3–4-1822, by James Garner.
               Thomas Clark to Mary Collings, 3–4-1822, by James Armstrong, M.G.
               Hector G. Taylor to Charlotte Smith, 4–11-1822, by William Robinson.
               James Snow to Teny Pine, 3–18-1822, by Joseph Bower.
               Benjamin F. Russell to Elizabeth Gallimore, 3–18-1822, by Joseph Bower.
               Conrod Sawyer to Patience Buckley, 3–18-1822, by Henry Bottorff.
               James Hensley to Clarissy Morris, 3–20-1822, by Lemuel Ford.
               Robert Hooker to Sally Hatfield, 3–21-1822, by Joseph White.
               John Patrick to Matilda Holeman, 3–30-1822, by John Prather.
               Andrew Y. McComb to Catherine Ryan, 4–3-1822, by James Armstrong.
               Christman Noe to Mary Littel, 4–5-1822.
               Samuel Nicholson to Sarah Peters, 4–15-1822, by John Todd.
               George Bottorff to Catherine Riggle, 4–20-1822.
               Edee Durell to Catherine Quackenbush, 4–24-1822, by Henry Bottorff.
               Nathan Pool to Mary Hooker, 4–27-1822, by Joseph Bower.
               John Borden to Lydia Bellows, 5–4-1822.
               Jonathan Luther to Sarah Crook, 5–11-1822, by Joseph White.
               John Harris to Mary Stressey, 5–25-1822, by James Garner.
               William Wilkinson to Mary Scott, 5–27-1822, by Calvin Ruter.
               John Ragsdale to Tabitha Overstreet, 6–3-1822, by Lemuel Ford.
               Isaac Washburn to Sarah Watson, 6–6-1822.
               Christopher Cole to Mary Fouts, 6–7-1822, by Mordicai Cole.
               Robert Owens to Mary Rowzee, 7–2-1822, by Lemuel Ford.
               John A. Spear to Elizabeth Boicout, 7–3-1822.
               William Dustin, Jr. to Martha Ann Willey, 7–2-1822, by James Armstrong.
               Ephriam Pucket to Ann Huffman, 7–8-1822, by William Keynon.
               Stephen Martin to Mary Goss, 8–3-1822, by Absalom Littell.
               Robert Watson to Mary Finch, 8–5-1822, by Jesse Hughes.
               Isaac Crosby to Winsey How (Persons of color), 8–21-1822, by James Armstrong.
               Joel Newland to Sarah Garner, 8–21-1822, by Armstrong.
               
               Stephen Robnett to Catherine Fisher, 9–5-1822, by Thomas J. Todd.
               James Braman to Phebe Wilkinson, 9–16-1822, by John Todd.
               Robert Hopkins, Jr. to Emilia Bartholomew, 9–21-822.
               Isaac Giltner to Rachel Allhands, 9–23-1822.
               William H. Beadles to Charlotte W. Garner, 9–26-1822.
               David Hawkins to Hannah Payne, 10–3-1822.
               John Wilson to Sarah Hattsell, 10–7-1822, by John M. Dickey.
               David Patterson to Jemima Bethel, 10–10-1822, by William Shanks.
               Jonathan N. Baggerly to Casander Bailey, 10–16-1822.
               Joseph Corey to Sibel Austin, 11–1-1822, by Lemuel Ford.
               John Robertson to Rebeccah Ruddell, 11–5-1822.
               Samuel R. Offutt to Elizabeth C. Hays, 11–8-1822, by Lemuel Ford.
               John Gross to Sybel Ann Maim, 11–12-1822.
               Henry Strutt to Catherine Gibson, 12–21-1822, by James Weir, J.P.
               Hezekiah Smith to Sarah Bergen, 12–23-1822, by William Robinson.
               James Robison to Mary Cummings, 12–30-1822, by M. Cole.
               Thomas Wells to Elizabeth Cunningham, 12–11-1822, by Absalom Littell.
               Edward Huckelberry to Mary W. Daily, 12–13-1822, by Lemuel Ford.
               Alexander Gilstrap to Mary Garen, 1–7-1823, by Joseph Bower.
               Robert M. Archerd to Laura Washburn, 1–14-1823, by William Shanks.
               James Beggs, Jr. to Matilda Drummond, 1–18-1823, by M. Cole.
               George Bottorff to Lucy Ann Stacy, 1–18-1823.
               William S. Crum to Mary Prather, 1–27-1823.
               Walter Wheatly to Catherine Beggs, 1–27-1823, by M. Cole.
               Benjamin P. Butts to Polly Carr, 2–3-1823.
               James Patterson to Jane Kelley, 2–8-1823, by J. M. Dickey.
               Henry Lentz to Deborah Cavender, 2–11-1823, by Abraham Ashton.
               Adam Morgan to Virlinden Leach, 2–11-1823.
               Robert H. Wilson to Elizabeth Perdue, 2–22-1823, by James Armstrong.
               William Graham to Elizabeth Farmer, 2–24-1823, by Abraham Ashton.
               John C. Green to Eliza Johnston, 2–25-1823.
               Benjamin Dunkin to Mary Grismore, 3–1-1823, by James Armstrong.
               Josiah T. Littell to Elizabeth Gilmore, 3–5-1823, by John McCoy.
               Hezekiah Clark to Charity Pittman, 3–10-1823, by Alexander Walker.
               John Cousley to Elizabeth Giltner, 3–10-1823, by John M. Dickey.
               Colbert R. Johnson to Eleanor Heath, 3–22-1823, by James Armstrong.
               James Applegate to Ann S. Hughes, 3–17-1823, by Orlando Raymond.
               John Brown to Elenor Drummond, 3–22-1823, by Absalom Littell.
               David Burkhart to Abigail Anderson, 4–1-1823, by Orlando Raymond.
               Thomas Wilson to Ruthy Thompson, 4–3-1823.
               Henry Oliver Hedgecock to Elizabeth Ann Parks, 4–3-1823, by Guy Guernsey.
               John Slider to Anna Terry, 4–4-1823.
               Robert Smith to Elizabeth Lookhard, 4–12-1823, by James Armstrong.
               Thomas Napper to Elizabeth Kelley, 4–9-1823.
               Henry Perdue to Margarette McNulty, 4–21-1823, by James Armstrong.
               George Alstot to Margaret Coombs, 4–23-1823, by Jesse Hughes.
               Absalom Wood to Anna Watson, 4–22-1823, by James Armstrong.
               George Shaver to Eliza Daniel, 4–27-1823, by John Jackson.
               Wesley Crum to Kitty Ann Hamaker, 4–28-1823, by Thomas Allen.
               George Carr to Mary McCalley, 5–15-1823, by William Shanks.
               
               Joseph Stephens to Elizabeth Oldham, 5–16-1823, by R. H. Murray.
               Noah Garen to Caty Copple (license issued in Scott County; married 
                            Clark County
                        ), 4–7-1823, by Joseph Bower.
               Andrew Mitchell, Jr. to Matilda Oard, 5–20-1823, by James Armstrong.
               Clevears Poindexter to Nancy Holland, 5–21-1823, by Absalom Littell.
               Jesse Stutsman to Sally Garriott, 5–21-1823, by Thomas Allen.
               Daniel Lester to Libby Jenkins, 5–24-1823, by John Jackson.
               Thompson T. Hollis to Maria Grubbs, 5–26-1823, by same.
               John Evans to Susanna Clark, 5–27-1823.
               Jeremiah Gilstrap to Rachel Copple, 6–3-1823.
               David Gilson to Margaret Boon, 6–4-1823, by Alexander Walker.
               Samuel Pennington to Anna Wilson, 6–6-1823, by William Shanks.
               Philip Yocom to Sarah Warren, 6–7-1823, by Samuel Hamilton, presiding elder M. E.
                        Church.
               Alexander Robertson to Nancy Hart, 6–12-1823.
               Jesse Baker to Sarah Robertson, 7–9-1823.
               Lee Babcock (widower) to Susan Dixon (widow), 7–12-1823, by William Shanks.
               Isaac Peirce to Caroline Luckey, 7–14-1823, by Samuel Patterson.
               Charles McCormick to Isabel McCormick, 7–26-1823, by James Armstrong.
               Jonathan Murray to Catherine Hood, 7–26-1823, by T. Allen.
               Nathan Gallimore to Sarah Kelley, 8–13-1823.
               John Pindley to Nancy Findley, 8–18-1823, by Joseph Bower.
               George Schwartz to Nancy Fry, 8–21-1823, by Rezin Hammond.
               Robert Montgomery to Nancy McNew, 8–25-1823, by M. Cole.
               Turner Campbell to Izabella Henthorn, 8–26-1823, by Adam Davis.
               Eli Gleason to Susanna Butler, 9–2-1823.
               Ebenezer C. McCoy to Sarah Harris, 9–3-1823.
               William Dunkin to Mary Porter, 9–8-1823.
               Henry Whiteman to Mary Coble, 9–10-1823, by William Keynon.
               Hiram Thompson to Mariah Tuttle, 9–30-1823, by M. Cole.
               James Fisler to Grace Hall, 9–30-1823, by James Armstrong.
               William Oard to Ruth Bunton, 10–1-1823 by same.
               Theophilus Robinson to Elizabeth Boyer, 10–4-1823, by William Robinson.
               John Blizard to Margaret Davis, 10–11-1823, by Lemuel Ford.
               Isaac Morgan to Seely Night, 10–11-1823.
               Benjamin Gray to Lucy Williams, 10–14-1823, by Absalom Littell.
               George T. Sage to Sally I. (or J.) Harris, 11–5-1823, by William Robinson.
               Henry Jackson to Mary Oard, 11–8-1823, by Lemuel Ford.
               Henry L. Allen to Mary Palmer, 11–8-1823, by O. Raymond.
               Elias Neeld to Eliza Galloway, 11–19-1823, by Absalom Littell.
               Raymond Bradley to Elizabeth Keynon, 11–22-1823, by Lemuel Ford.
               Henry Lutz, Jr. to Sarah Lutz, 11–26-1823, by same.
               Jesse Reed to Elizabeth Daniel, 11–26-1823, by James Garner.
               Martin Geiger to Melinda Tilford, 11–27-1823, by John Todd.
               John T. McClintick to Elizabeth Brothers, 12–8-1823, by George Ross.
               John Fry to Sarah Schwartz, 12–17-1823, by Samuel Hamilton.
               Daniel Hepler to Gatsey Garren, 12–17-1823, by Joseph Bower.
               
               Judson Thompson to Martha Barnes, 12–22-1823, by John Todd.
               Samuel Gallimore to Elizabeth Hooker, 12–22-1823, by Joseph Bower.
               William D. Henning to Nancy Silance, 12–26-1823, by John Clark.
               Joshua Jenkins to Mary Riggle, 12–27-1823.
               Isaac Stephens to Louisa Burns (persons of color), 12–31-1823, by William Shanks.
               Thomas Patterson to Frances Harris, 1–16-1824, by William Robinson.
               Judson Taylor to Elizabeth Casady, 1–17-1824, by William Shanks.
               Jacob West to Sarah Allhands (widow), 1–24-1824.
               Henry W. Harrison to Justine Beaver, 1–28-1824, by Robert Jackson.
               Alevitious T. Greene to Elizabeth Deitz, 2–7-1824, by Lemuel Ford.
               James Carpenter to Nancy Cook, 2–9-1824, by Abraham Ashton.
               Daniel B. Guernsey to Nancy Kelley, 2–9-1824, by Guy Guernsey.
               Ephriam Wayuman to Susanna Wheaten, 2–9-1824, by Absalom Littell.
               Samuel Whitesides to Levinah Lockhart, 2–16-1824.
               James Henning to Sarah Completon, 2–21-1824, by John Clark.
               John Watkins to Veca(?) Cooper, 2–24-1824, by Thomas Allen.
               Vincent Shelton to Judia Adams (persons of color), 2–27-1824.
               John C. Smith to Catherine Prather, 2–25-1824, by Rezin Hammond.
               Eliphalet Pearson to Amelia London, 2–27-1824, by John Todd.
               Samuel I. (or J.) Steward to Elizabeth Craig, 3–3-1824, by Orlando Raymond.
               William Hartley to Hannah Shaw, 3–6-1824, by Lemuel Ford.
               William Hess to Maria Chrisman, 3–18-1824, by William Shanks.
               James Patterson to Fanny Goben, 3–23-1824, by Jesse Hughes.
               George Chappel to Mary Davis, 3–24-1824, by Lemuel Ford.
               George Richards to Martha Wlliams, 3–27-1824, by Samuel Hamilton.
               Henry Davis to Elizabeth Smith, 3–27-1824, by Lemuel Ford.
               William Alstadt to Nancy Coo- [illegible], 3–31-1824, by Thomas Allen.
               Lewis Spalden to Eliza Laraway, 3–31-1824, by George Ross.
               John Kelley to Eleanor Patterson, 4–6-1824, by William Robinson.
               Jesse Wilson to Esther Whiteman, 4–8-1824, by Martin Huckleberry.
               Bartlett Hardy to Louise McDonald, 4–8-1824, by James Scott.
               Absalom Elliott, Jr., to Mary Spear, 4–19-1824.
               William Summers to Elizabeth Norris, 4–10-1824, by Lemuel Ford.
               James Dixon to Susan Copple, 4–10-1824, by Joseph Bower.
               Robert Criswell to Elizabeth Costin, 4–12-1824, by same.
               Frederick Fisher to Sarah Fouts, 4–13-1824, by William Montgomery.
               Barnaby Reynolds to Martha Mathes, 4–14-1824, by Robert S. Henry.
               John Hamaker to Amy Crum, 4–26-1824, by Thomas Allen.
               John Oliver (?) to Kryial Favor (?), 4–28-1824, by Orlando
                        Raymond.
               Jacob Whitesell to Ann Lemon, 5–1-1824, by Absalom Littell.
               Thomas Williams to Eliza Hatfield, 5–12-1824, by Jesse Hughes.
               John Cline to Sophia Bower, 5–28-1824, by Joseph Bower.
               Nathan Dow to Matilda Roberson, 6–7-1824, by John T. Littell.
               John W. Patten to Elizabeth Bethel, 6–9-1824, by Samuel Hamilton.
               William Bullock to Nancy Bullock, 6–23-1824, by same.
               David Gilman to Nancy Morgan, 6–23-1824, by Absalom Littell.
               James Moore to Eliza Wainman, 6–26-1824, by same.
               Lawson L. Dunkin to Maria L. Scott, 7–1-1824, by William Shanks.
               Alexander F. Morrison to Ann Talbott, 7–7-1824, by John Todd.
               
               Samuel Gooding to Susan Coombs, 7–4-1824, by Joseph Bower.
               Samuel Heath to Mary Rawatt, 7–15-1824, by Samuel Patterson.
               Jacob Stevens to Mary F. McConnaughhay, 7–27-1824, by Lemuel Ford.
               Patrick Caldwell (?) to Margaret Daniel, 8–2-1824, by Thomas Allen.
               Reynolds Stebbins to Rebecca M. Terwileger, 8–13-1824, by Orlando Raymond.
               Seth Ingram to Polly Ann Robinson, 8–16-1824, by William Robinson.
               John Moon to Catherine Ditzler, 8–18-1824, by Martin Huckleberry.
               John W. Lee to Effy Hester, 8–24-1824, by James Armstrong.
               Robert Bowman to Mary Myres, 8–24-1824, by John Todd.
               John Peyton to Abigail McCoy, 8–27-1824, by Joseph Hostetler.
               William Roe to Elizabeth Fouts, 8–30-1824, by Joseph Bower.
               Samuel Gibson to Elizabeth Cornelison, 8–31-1824, by William Montgomery.
               Abraham Cotner to Elizabeth Amick, 9–1-1824, by Robert Jackson.
               William Elliott to Sarah Stutsman, 9–3-1824.
               Crawford Lewis to Elizabeth Neeld, 9–9-1824, by John T. Littell.
               John F. Jenkins to Elizabeth Zalling, 9–14-1824, by John Carr.
               Jesse Owens to Elizabeth Lewis, 9–14-1824, by John T. Littell.
               Acquilla Hutchings to Margaret Lawrence, 9–15-1824, by Thomas Allen.
               William Anderson to Elizabeth Robinson, 9–18-1824, by Martin Huckleberry.
               Silas Dickerson to Tirzah B. Robinson, 9–27-1824, by William Robinson.
               Henry Milne (?) to Hannah Carlisle, 10–4-1824, by John E. Roe, J.P.
               Robert C. Anderson to Catherine Crum, 10–6-1824, by M. Cole.
               Abraham McCafferty to Sarah Groce, 10–8-1824, by Absalom Littell.
               Alba Thompson to Sally Baines, 10–11-1824, by Lemuel Ford.
               Gideon Bottorff to Susan Allhands, 10–12-1824.
               Benjamin Depue to Eliza Chase, 10–12-1824, by John E. Roe.
               Elisha Griffith to Elizabeth Findley, 10–12-1824, by Lemuel Ford.
               William Johnson to Elizabeth Watkins, 10–16-1824.
               Elisha Marshall to Esther Johnson, 10–17-1824, by Lemuel Ford.
               Marcus Story to Garey (?) Warman, 10–17-1824, by John T. Littell.
               William Wright to Ann Bowman, 10–21-1824, by John Todd.
               James Cobb to Caty Pratt, 10–23-1824, by Orlando Raymond.
               Mathew Perry to Ohlay (?) Collens, 11–1-1824, by John Clark.
               Samuel Smallwood to Balinda Robertson (or Robinson), 11–3-1824, by Benjamin
                        Ferguson.
               William Meloy to Nancy Watson, 11–3-1824, by M. Cole.
               John Galimore to Elizabeth Lucas, 11–9-1824, by Jesse Lucas.
               John McCampbell to Polly Henderson, 11–9-1824, by Rezin Hammond.
               Howell Wells to Catherine Cuningham, 11–10-1824, by Joseph Hostetler.
               George Gray to Susan Jesup (persons of color), 11–16-1824, by Orlando Raymond.
               Uriah McDonald to Mariah Reed, 11–16-1824, by Lemuel Ford.
               David McDonald to Matilda Reddin (called Malinda Conduit [?]),
                        11–17-1824, by Benjamin Ferguson.
               James Baher to Elizabeth Peyton, 11–20-1824, by Gabriel Washburn.
               Francis A. McWilliams to Rachel Middlekauff, 11–18-1824.
               Jacob Rider to Margaret Mitchener, 11–25-1824, by Martin Huckleberry.
               John F. Demar (?) to Cassander Barns, 12–1-1824, by Thomas Allen.
               
               Henry E. Reed to Kitty Ann Stover, 12–8-1824, by M. Cole.
               Charles Owens to Eliza Williams, 12–12-1824, by Lemuel Ford.
               William Spencer to Margaret Maim (or Marm?), 12–13-1824, by John T.
                        Littell.
               George Green to Nancy Parker, 12–16-1824, by M. Cole.
               James H. Arbuckle to Sinah Tilford, 12–18-1824, by Alexander Walker.
               John Packwood to Catherine Morris, 12–20-1824, by John T. Littell.
               Thomas D. Wilson to Catharine E. Watson, 12–21-1824, by John T. Hamilton,
                        Presbyterian minister.
               James Coldwell to Priscilla Topaz (?), 12–22-1824, by Rezin Hammond.
               John Heath to Sarah Glass, 12–30-1824, by Samuel Patterson.
               Alen (?) C. Rogers to Elizabeth Linton, 12–30-1824, by John Todd.
            
         
         
            Census and Pension Research
            Although the Indiana University Library has the 1850 and 1860 
                        United States
                     Census in microfilm, it has not been possible for the Indiana Magazine of
                        History to secure anyone regularly to read the films when requests have been received.
                    Information has been given to us that professional services may be obtained from the following:
            Mrs. W. O. Pruitt
            892 National Press Building 
                        Washington
                     4, D.C.
            Mrs. Pruitt is the compiler of Revolutionary War Pension Applicants of 
                        South Carolina
                    .
            The Genealogy Division of the Indiana State Library, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana, has just acquired the 1850 
                        United States
                     Census in microfilm.
         
         
         
            Wanted–County Histories
            The Indiana University Library is attempting to add to its present holdings on Indiana History all of
                    the Indiana county histories and atlases that have been published. If any of the readers of the
                    Indiana Magazine of History have county histories or atlases which they desire to dispose of, please
                    write Miss Irene Ryan, Indiana University Library, Bloom-ington, Indiana, giving the author and
                    title of the volume and the price which they would expect to receive. We are particularly interested
                    in the following:
            
               
                  Biographical Record of 
                                Bartholomew
                             and Jackson Counties,
                        Indiana, B. F. Bowen (
                            Chicago
                        , 1904).
               
                  Descriptive Atlas of Jackson County, Indiana, American Map and Atlas Co. (
                            Chicago
                        , 1900).
               
                  One Hundred Years Ago; Early History of Jackson County
                        . . . compiled by H. W. Chadwick.
               
                  History of Jackson County, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1886).
               Louis Hayes 
                            Hamilton
                        , A Standard History of 
                                Jasper
                             and
                        
                     
                                Newton
                             Counties, Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1916).
               
                  Standard Atlas of 
                                Jasper County
                             , Indiana, by George A. Ogle & Co.
               
                  Biographical History of 
                                Tippecanoe
                            , White, 
                        Jasper, Newton
                     ,
                        
                     
                        Benton, Warren
                      and 
                                Pulaski
                             Counties, Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1899).
               
                  Counties of 
                        Warren, Benton, Jasper
                     ,
                            and 
                                Newton
                            , Indiana, by Battey & Co.
               J. W. Kelley (comp.), Jay County, Indiana, New Atlas (
                            Portland
                        , 1901).
               B. N. Griffing, Atlas of Jay County, Indiana (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1887).
               
                        Biographical Memoirs of Jay County, Indiana …
                    
               
                  History of Jay County, Indiana ... (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1922).
               
                  
                     
                                Jennings County
                            , Indiana, Atlas (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1884).
               
                  
                     
                                Shelby
                             and Johnson Counties, Indiana, Plat Book (
                            Evansville
                        ).
               
                  History of 
                                Johnson County
                            , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1888).
               
                  Standard Atlas of 
                                Kosciusko County
                             , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1914).
               
                  Combination Atlas Map of 
                                Kosciusko County
                             , Indiana, by Kingman Brothers.
               
                  Biographical and Historical Record of 
                                Kosciusko County
                             , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1887).
               
               
                  LaGrange County, Indiana, Illustrated Atlas (1893).
               Rose Marjorie Waddell (comp.), History of LaGrange County. Indiana
                        (LaGrange, Indiana, 1936).
               Weston A. Goodspeed, Counties of Porter and Lake, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1882).
               
                  Atlas and Plat Book of 
                                Lake County
                            , Indiana (
                     Rockford,
                                Illinois
                  , 1926).
               
                  History of 
                                Lake County
                            
                   by 
                            Lake County
                         Historical Association.
               Thomas H. Cannon, History of the Lake and Calumet Regions of Indiana.
               William F. Howat, A Standard History of 
                                Lake County
                            , Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1915).
               
                  
                     
                                Lake County
                            , Indiana.
               Sam B. Woods, The First Hundred Years of 
                                Lake County
                            , Indiana (
                            Crown Point
                        , Indiana, 1938).
               
                  Pictorial and Biographical Record of LaPorte, Porter, Lake, Starke Counties,
                            Indiana.
               
                  History of LaPorte County (
                            Chicago
                        , 1880).
               
                  Illustrated Historical Atlas of LaPorte County, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1874).
               
                  LaPorte County, Indiana, Atlas ... by Joseph D. Norris.
               
                  Plat Books of LaPorte County, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1892).
               
                  LaPorte County, Indiana . . . Standard Atlas (
                            Chicago
                        , 1921).
               E. D. Daniels, A Twentieth Century History and Biographical Record of LaPorte
                            County, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1904).
               Rollo B. Oglesbee and Albert Hale, History of 
                                Michigan
                             City, Indiana.
               
                  
                            Jasper
                         Packard, History of LaPorte County, Indiana (LaPorte, Indiana,
                        1876).
               Edith J. Backus, LaPorte, Indiana, History of First Hundred Years,
                            1832–1932.
               
               
                  Atlas and Plat Book of LaPorte County, Indiana (
                            Michigan
                         City, 1920).
               
                  History of Lawrence, 
                                Orange
                             and 
                                Washington
                             Counties, Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1884).
               
                  Lawrence County, Indiana, Atlas.
               
                  
                     
                                Madison County
                            , Indiana, Atlas and Directory (
                            Cleveland
                        , 1901).
               John L. Forkner, Historical Sketches and Reminiscences of 
                                Madison County
                            , Indiana (Anderson, Indiana, 1897).
               John L. Forkner, History of 
                                Madison County
                            , Indiana (2 vols., 1914).
               
               Samuel Harden (comp.), History of 
                                Madison County
                            , Indiana, from 1820–187 J+ (Markleville, Indiana,
                        1874).
               Thomas B. Helm, History of 
                                Madison County
                            , Indiana, (
                            Chicago
                        , 1880).
               
                  
                     
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Marion County
                             , Indiana, Atlas (1889).
               George W. Baist, Baist's Property Atlas of the City of 
                                Indianapolis
                             and Vicinity, Indiana (Phildelphia, 1899).
               George W. Baist, Baist's Property Atlas of 
                                Marion County
                             , Indiana (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1901).
               Ignatius 
                            Brown
                        , Logan's History of 
                                Indianapolis
                             from 1818.
               
                  Pictorial and Biographical Memoirs of 
                                Indianapolis
                             and 
                                Marion County
                             , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1893).
               Condit, Wright & Hayden, 
                     
                                Marion County
                             , Indiana.
               
                  People's Guide … of 
                                Marion County
                             , Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1874).
               
                  Standard Atlas of 
                                Marshall County
                            , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1922).
               
                  History of 
                                Marshall County
                            , Indiana (2 vols., 1890).
               Daniel McDonald, History of 
                                Marshall County
                            , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1881).
               Daniel McDonald, A Twentieth Century History of 
                                Marshall County
                            , Indiana (2 vols., 
                            Chicago
                        , 1908).
               Minnie H. Swindell, The Story of 
                                Marshall County
                            
                   (
                            Plymouth
                        , Indiana, 1923).
               Thomas K. Clarke (comp.), Plat Book of Martin County, Indiàna.
               
                  
                     
                                Miami County
                            , Indiana, Combination Atlas Map (1877).
               
                  History of 
                                Miami County
                            , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1887).
               Arthur L. Bodurtha (ed.), History of 
                                Miami County
                            , Indiana (2 vols, 
                            Chicago
                        , 1914).
               John A. Graham, Pioneer History of 
                                Peru
                             and 
                                Miami County
                            
                  .
               John H. Stephens, History of 
                                Miami County
                            
                   (
                            Peru
                        , Indiana, 1896).
               Hiram W. Beckwith, History of 
                                Montgomery County
                            
                         (
                            Chicago
                        , 1881).
               
                  Atlas of 
                                Montgomery
                             Co., Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1878).
               
                  History of 
                                Montgomery County
                             , Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , Indiana, 1913), volume 2.
               
                  Standard Atlas of 
                                Montgomery County
                             , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1917).
               F. Hoffman (comp.), The Revised 
                                Montgomery County
                             Atlas (
                            Crawfordsville
                        , Indiana, 1898).
               
                  People's Guide … of 
                                Morgan County
                            , Indiana (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1874).
               John Ade, 
                            
                                Newton County
                            
                         (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1911).
               
                  Standard Atlas of 
                                Newton County
                            , Indiana (
                            Chicago
                        , 1916).
            
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
