
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 88, Issue 3, pages 173-272. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:88+issue:3+year:1992&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            A Small World of Little Americans: The $1 Diplomacy of Wendell Willkie's One World
            
            
                    John M. 
                            Jordan
                        
               
                    *
                
            In 1943 political contention dominated the American scene. Citizens wondered about the purposes of
                    the war, commentators argued over the meaning of "liberalism," a three-term
                    president geared up for a controversial fourth election, and the shape of the world after the war
                    became a frequent topic of discussion as that war looked increasingly winnable. In the midst of this
                    confusion Wendell L. Willkie published One World, his call for an interconnected
                    postwar global order. More liberal than 
                        Franklin
                     D. Roosevelt on issues involving civil rights and civil liberties, Willkie also stood
                    far removed from the foreign policy orthodoxy of his own Republican party as it was moved from
                    isolationism to a self-interested internationalism by Arthur H. Vandenberg. Willkie's
                    outlook thus defied conventional categories as he presented to the readers of One
                    World a globe noteworthy for its similarity to America's western frontier. The postwar
                    world thereby became recognizable and, by implication, safe enough for his particular style of
                        internationalism.1
            
            As Willkie argued for freeing colonies from (usually) British rule, he homogenized their citizens
                    into what might be called little Americans, many of whose descriptions in One
                    World. bear a striking resemblance to the young Willkie. He defused the radical prospect of a
                    pluralistic cacophony of newly independent nationalists 
                  
                     * John M. 
                                Jordan
                             teaches in the Expository Writing program at 
                                Harvard
                             University, 
                        Cambridge, Massachusetts
                     . His book on the
                            technocratic origins of midcentury American liberalism is forthcoming. He would like to
                            thank Robert Dallek, David Hollinger, and Robert Schulzinger for commenting on various
                            drafts of this article. A grant for travel to the 
                                Franklin
                             D. Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, 
                                New York
                            , was provided by the 
                                Franklin
                             and Eleanor Roosevelt Institute.
                  
                     1 Little has been written on the postwar planning
                            book/jeremiad/blueprint as a genre of social commentary. See, however, two contemporary
                            assessments: Henry Steele Commager, "World Planners, Then and Now," 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Times Book Review, July 18, 1943, p. 1, and Hans Ernest Fried,
                            "America's Foreign Policy: The Great Debate," Public
                                Opinion Quarterly, VII (Winter, 1943), 720–26.
                  INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXVIII (September, 1992). © 1992, Trustees of
                            Indiana University.
               
                     by making all the foreigners in the book sound American in
                    their postcolonial aspirations. In the end Willkie's call for diplomatic recognition of
                    what is now termed the Third World was complicated by his deracinated portrayals of the very peoples
                    whose diversity he ostensibly praised; alternately prescient and naive, the text of the book
                    ultimately celebrates America more than global self-determination.
            Despite competing with better-known and more astute writers—Henry R. Luce, Henry A.
                    Wallace, James Reston, Herbert Hoover, Walter Lippmann, and Sumner Welles, among
                    others—Willkie watched his one dollar book sell a million copies faster than any
                    nonfiction work in history. The book struck several divergent popular chords. Did readers favor
                    Willkie as a 1944 presidential candidate? Were they intrigued by his tales of faraway countries? Did
                    they entertain hopes for a peaceful postwar order based on a successor to the League of Nations? Or
                    was Willkie's self-confidently unconventional persona appealing in its own right? Readers
                    bought and read the book for many reasons, but Willkie chose to see the book's success as
                    an endorsement of his politics that was never manifested in polling places. The internationalist
                    tract is ultimately more important for what it tells about Willkie's domestic agenda: he
                    understood political popularity and civil rights better than he comprehended the world outside
                    American borders. The book succeeds best when the discussion intersects one of these two areas of
                    expertise and falters when Willkie treads onto diplomatic grounds.
            The son of small-town Indiana lawyers, Willkie witnessed firsthand the exuberant growth of America in
                    the twentieth century. Stints spent working in a factory, managing a flophouse during the South
                    Dakota land rush, and driving a horse-drawn stagecoach for tourists in Yellowstone National Park
                    preceded his graduation from high school back in 
                        Elwood
                    . After being a sometime campus radical at Indiana University, which granted him a
                    bachelor's degree, Willkie taught history in 
                        Kansas
                     before returning to 
                        Bloomington
                     for law school. He served without seeing combat in World War I then settled in Akron.
                    There Willkie became involved in Democratic politics, and eventually he joined a firm doing utility
                    law for Northern 
                        Ohio
                     Power and Light Company. The holding company behind his primary client brought Willkie
                    to 
                        New York
                     in 1929, and in January, 1933, he was named president of the firm, the Commonwealth and
                    Southern company.2
            
            
               
                  2 The most recent biography of Wendell Willkie, written by a journalist
                        rather than an academic, is Steve Neal, Dark Horse: A Biography of Wendell
                        Willkie (
                            Garden City
                        , N. Y., 1984). More comprehensive is the somewhat dated study by
            
            
            While the job presented substantial challenges, Willkie soon earned respect as a tough opponent of
                    Roosevelt's plans for a 
                        Tennessee
                     Valley Authority. Eventually forcing the government to buy out C&S for over
                    $78,000,000 in 1939, Willkie established a name for himself as a spokesman for the
                    private ownership of public utilities with a series of essays in popular magazines. After the buyout
                    he joined a 
                        New York
                     law firm and mounted the "dark horse" presidential
                    campaign—as a Republican, admittedly of recent vintage—of 1940. His vote total
                    was not surpassed by a Republican until Dwight D. Eisenhower won in 1952, and the party regulars
                    spent much of the next four years worrying about how to prevent a repeat performance.3
            
            Despite his status as a party outsider, Willkie benefited from historical trends in the media in
                    winning the nomination. As the Depression wore on, newspaper support for Roosevelt, never
                    overwhelming, declined further. According to Editor and Publisher the count of
                    major papers supporting FDR declined from forty in 1932 to thirty-six in 1936 and twenty-three in
                    1940. By this time Willkie had made close allies in the highest levels of the news business,
                    including Time-Life's Henry Luce; Gardner ("Mike") and John Cowles, who
                    published the 
                        Minneapolis
                     Star and Tribune, Des Moines Register, and Look magazine; and Arthur Hays Sulzberger from the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times. Many columnists and reporters also took a liking to Willkie, who loved
                    bantering with them in long bull sessions. His colorful nature, lack of protective functionaries,
                    and frequent disdain for ceremony made him seem a "breath of mountain air in a hot, stale
                    room," as one reporter wrote. On his trip around the world, according to the same report in
                        Look, Willkie "disregarded protocol, cracked corny American jokes at
                    state dinners, slapped the Shah, or King of Kings, on the back and called him a great
                    guy—and everybody liked it." The Cowles publication exaggerated: plenty of
                    reporters saw Willkie only as a politically inexperienced lightweight.4
            
            
               Ellsworth Barnard entitled Wendell Willkie: Fighter for Freedom (Marquette,
                        Mich., 1966). A recent collection of essays, Wendell Willkie: Hoosier
                            Internationalist, ed. James H. 
                            Madison
                         (
                            Bloomington
                        , Ind., 1992), appeared as this article was in press. The best of the books
                        published by Willkie's contemporaries is Joseph Barnes, Willkie: The
                            Events He Was Part Of, the Ideals He Fought For (
                            New York
                        , 1952).
               
                  3 For examples of Willkie's prewar writing see
                        "Government and the Public Utilities," Vital Speeches, I
                        (February 11, 1935), 292–99; "Political Power," Atlantic, CLX (August, 1937), 210–18; "Brace Up,
                        America!" Atlantic, CLXIII (June, 1939), 749–56; and
                        "What Helps Business Helps You," Nation's Business,
                        XXVII (June, 1939), 78.
               
                  4 Barnes, Willkie, 232–33; Edmund Stevens,
                        "What Foreign Correspondents Think of Willkie," Look, VIII
                        (October 5, 1944), 32. Concerning Willkie's political experience and acumen Harold J.
                        Laski wrote 
                            Franklin
                         D. Roosevelt: "I thought him shrewd, very agreeable, and warm-hearted; but
                        incredibly inexperienced in political argument and unaccustomed to the exploration of what
                        Holmes used to call
            
            
            Within the Willkie cohort political and personal ties intersected with Sulzberger and Luce. The 
                        New York
                    
                    Times endorsement of Willkie in 1940 made him only the third Republican in
                    fifty-six years to get the paper's editorial vote; the other two were William McKinley in
                    1900 and William Howard Taft in 1908. When One World came out, the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times review by Harold E. Stassen turned out to be among the harshest as the 
                        Minnesota
                     governor found "weakness in…[Willkie's] tendency to be
                    dogmatic and belligerent…."5 Arthur Sulzberger wrote Willkie
                    an apology and included a blurb for the book on the editorial page of the paper, thus softening the
                    potentially damaging press. After 1940 the Sulzbergers and Willkies spent social time together. The
                    peripatetic Willkie, forever turning down speaking engagements, even found time to help Iphigene
                    Ochs Sulzberger, the wife of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Times publisher, run a Girl Scout meeting.6 In her memoirs she
                    portrays Willkie at rest in telling detail: 
                        We became acquainted with the Willkies after he lost the election. As I came to know him
                            better, I realized that the defeat followed the pattern of his career. He never seemed to
                            win anything….
                        At Hillandale we used to play a lot of parlor games—Chinese checkers, backgammon,
                            gin rummy. Wendell would play all day long and lose every time. He always made some silly
                            mistake. But he never got discouraged, and the bleary-eyed soul who had played with him all
                            afternoon or evening would at last have to quit. Wendell never quit first. He would just
                            cry, "I'll win the next time!" I got to the point of cheating to
                            let him win.7
                  
                    
            
            Willkie also came to know Henry and Clare Boothe Luce. Russell Davenport, the managing editor of Fortune, joined the Cowles brothers as one of Willkie's closest advisers.
                    Luce, as Davenport's boss and a political buff, accordingly viewed the Willkie phenomenon
                    at close range. After encouraging Henry Luce to enter electoral politics, Willkie told him,
                    "Journalism…is fine but ‘this is the Sport of Kings!’
                    " As the author of a competing and less successful 
                  his ‘inarticulate major premises.’ He reminded me a bit of John
                            Morley's remark on T.R.—‘as I watched his remarkable energy I
                            could not help suspecting that his opinions sprang rather from physical than from mental
                            exertion.’ But his gesture of sympathy did good here." Laski to
                            Roosevelt, February 18, 1941, President's Personal File 3014 (
                                Franklin
                             D. Roosevelt Library, Hyde Park, 
                                New York
                            ).
                  
                     5 Barnes, Willkie, 233; Harold E. Stassen,
                            "Report on a Wakening World," 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Times Book Review, April 11, 1943, p. 1. The review was apparently
                            part of a pattern. Freda Kirchwey of The Nation told Claude G. Bowers,
                            Roosevelt's ambassador to 
                                Chile
                            : Willkie "is very bitter about Stassen. He told me about two or three
                            specific instances of Stassen's perfidy, rather minor instances but illuminating as
                            well." Quoted in Bowers to Roosevelt, June 12, 1944, President's
                            Secretary's File B.26 (FDR Library).
                  
                     6 Iphigene Ochs Sulzberger to Willkie, no date, Wendell L. Willkie
                            Papers, (Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ); Arthur Hays Sulzberger to Willkie, April 13, 1943, ibid.
                  
                  
                     7 Susan Dryfoos, ed., Iphigene: Memoirs of Iphigene Ochs
                                Sulzberger…(
                                New York
                            , 1981), 205.
               
                     postwar book, Luce later turned on Willkie, as did his wife,
                    herself a congresswoman from 1943 to 1947.8
            
            While Willkie's relations with newspapermen shaped his politics, his personal and editorial
                    life bore the imprint of another woman of letters: Irita 
                        Van
                     Doren, the longtime editor of the 
                        New York
                    
                    Herald Tribune book section and Willkie's lover and adviser. Reading and
                    writing more widely and creatively under her influence, Willkie developed more diverse friendships,
                    a more confident writing style, and a deeper appreciation for the humanist tradition of arts and
                    letters. The ex-wife of Carl 
                        Van
                     Doren, Irita was friendly with several of the era's most respected writers,
                    including Stephen Vincent Benét, Sinclair Lewis, Carl Sandburg, James Thurber, and 
                        Virginia
                     Woolf. Her skill as an editor was matched by a soft-spokenness that made her
                    "by far the kindest" of the "kind-hearted editors I have known,"
                    according to Malcolm Cowley. Through her Willkie became friends with William L. Shirer and John
                    Gunther, two journalists who no doubt expanded his understanding of world affairs.9
            
            Without 
                        Van
                     Doren One World would probably never have been written. In 1938
                    Willkie passed on to her an invitation from William D. Howe at Scribner's with an addendum:
                    "This is the fourth suggestion from Publishers [sic] that I write a
                    book….I am still afraid of the critics and since I can't get an advance promise
                    of kindly treatment posterity must therefore be forever deprived." Over the following years
                    signs of 
                        Van
                     Doren's presence appeared repeatedly as references to Keats, Ortega, and
                    Shakespeare enlivened the prose of the former utility industry spokesman. Willkie apparently came to
                    enjoy writing, scrawling over multiple drafts with a blunt black pencil. Good editorial assistance
                    made the process easier. In addition to 
                        Van
                     Doren, Willkie drew on Joseph Barnes, a reporter and editor with working knowledge of
                    French and Russian who over the years worked for the 
                        New York
                    
                    Herald Tribune, the Office of War Information, Simon and Schuster, and Sarah
                    Lawrence College. Willkie wrote Barnes, who had been on the One World trip under
                    OWI auspices, that the book was "great fun, although hard work, but I could not have even
                    started to do it without the two of you [Barnes and his wife Betty]."10
            
            
               
                  8 Robert T. Elston, The World of Time, Inc….:
                        Vol. II, 1941–1960 (
                            New York
                        , 1973), 71; Neal, Dark Horse, 291.
               
                  9 On 
                            Van
                         Doren see Neal, Dark Horse, 38–44; Cowley quoted in
                            ibid., 39. Willkie's commitment to the humanist tradition can be
                        seen most clearly in "Freedom and the Arts," an address delivered at Duke
                        University and reprinted in The Humanities After the War, ed. 
                            Norman
                         Foerster (
                            Princeton
                        , N.J., 1944), 1–9.
               
                  10 Willkie to Irita 
                            Van
                         Doren, May 27, 1938, Irita 
                            Van
                         Doren Papers (Library of Congress, 
                            Washington
                        , D.C.); Willkie to Joseph Barnes, March 26, 1943, Joseph Barnes Papers, ibid.
               
            
            
            As his writing was improving, Willkie positioned himself ideologically for the global vision of One World. During the early 1940s Willkie took stances—considered by
                    some to be of dubious electoral judgment—in favor of civil rights for minorities and
                    civil liberties for the unpopular. In 1940, for example, he protested harsh treatment of American
                    dissidents no matter how odious their views. For a future Republican presidential nominee to call
                    Eugene V. Debs "in the belief of many people, a great man" and to invoke the names
                    of Sacco and Vanzetti indicated a fierce commitment to civil liberties. "Now, you may hate
                    Nazism as much as I do," he wrote. "But even a Nazi is still
                    entitled—in America—to fair treatment under the law." Willkie acted
                    as he advocated, defending an admitted Communist, William Schneiderman, before the Supreme Court.
                    After taking the case without compensation, he won, much to the disgust of Republican regulars.
                    Racial tolerance was an equally high priority. In "The Case for the Minorities"
                    Willkie first stated a number of passages that would be repeated in One World.
                    Citing a "crawling, insidious anti-Semitism" as evidence, he decried the
                    historical tendency for societies to find in their minority populations convenient scapegoats in
                    times of strife. A number of speeches outlined a farsighted and humane stand on African-American
                        rights.11
            
            Willkie traveled to Great Britain on Roosevelt's behalf in early 1941 during the Lend-Lease
                    debate, and both men were pleased with the results. When the opportunity for a wartime trip around
                    the world presented itself a little over a year later, Roosevelt and Willkie had plenty of grounds
                    for agreement. Roosevelt had little to lose by sending the increasingly liberal opposition leader on
                    a tour of great propaganda value. He thought Willkie needed tutoring in foreign affairs while
                    admiring his instincts—to a point. Sending Willkie abroad also could help Roosevelt reach
                    out to moderate Republicans for support of his ill-defined war aims at the same time that the
                    opposition party was denied its most prominent spokesman. Leaving America—on official
                    business—from August to October of 1942 allowed Willkie to bow out of the potentially
                    messy situation of having to support Republican congressional and gubernatorial candidates, many of
                    whom he openly disliked. As the president's personal emissary, one not carrying State
                    Department credentials, Willkie was allowed at once to proclaim wartime unity 
                  
                     11 Willkie, "Fair Trial," New
                            Republic, CII (March 18, 1940), 371; on William Schneiderman see Barnard, Wendell Willkie, 400–405; Willkie, "The Case for the
                            Minorities," Saturday Evening Post, CCXIV (June 27, 1942), 14. On
                            African-American rights see "Race Hatred Broadcast, July 1943, C.B.S.," 
                                Van
                             Doren Papers; and Willkie's untitled speech to delegates of the War
                            Time Conference of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, July 7,
                            1944, Willkie Papers.
               
                    
                    
                  ROUTE OF WILLKIE'S PLANE, THE GULLIVER, AUGUST-OCTOBER, 1942
                            Reproduced from Wendell L. Willkie, One World (
                                New York
                            , 1943). Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                    
                  ON BOARD THE GULLIVER ON LEFT, GARDNER ("MIKE") COWLES;
                            TO WILLKIE'S REAR, CAPTAIN PAUL PIHL, U. S. N., WILLKIE'S BROTHER-IN-LAW.
                            Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     and to speak with the candor to which he had grown accustomed
                    in the previous few years. The range and depth of his travels both reinforced some previously
                    impressionistic ideas and thrust the formerly provincial midwesterner into the flux of global
                    decolonization. The trip itself, a remarkable enough experience, was thus transformed by
                    Willkie's naive yet upbeat outlook into a postwar planning text of considerable appeal.12
            
            The journey brought the wide-eyed Willkie into contact with an imposing segment of world leadership:
                    General Bernard L. 
                        Montgomery
                    , Charles de Gaulle, the young Shah of 
                        Iran
                    , Joseph Stalin, Generalissimo and Madame Chiang Kai-Shek, and Chou En-Lai.
                    Willkie's portfolio consisted of letters of introduction from Roosevelt, and even these
                    Willkie sometimes lost; the undelivered letter to Stalin was eventually found and now resides in the
                    Library of Congress. Flying in an unarmed bomber around the world in the middle of a war was thought
                    to generate positive press—controlling enough friendly air space for the trip to proceed
                    made the Allies look powerful—but the trip was tiring and often dangerous given the pace
                    of the itinerary and the primitive runways and avionics involved; General Joseph W. Stilwell
                    reported that Chinese weather forecasting was "of crystall [sic] ball
                    variety and completely unreliable." Years later, Mike Cowles, like Barnes an OWI official
                    on the trip, recalled that it "was cold and noisy on that plane and very
                    uncomfortable." He and Willkie played endless games of gin rummy as both men wore gloves,
                    hats, coats, and mufflers.13
            
            The trip included visits to many developing areas of the world, areas that would be "hot
                    spots" in the decades to come. Stops in 
                  Iran,
                            Egypt
               , Jerusalem, Russia, and 
                        China
                     allowed Willkie to hear advocates of both decolonization and imperialism plead their
                    cases. With his campaigner's instincts, however, Willkie also walked about and got repeated
                    earfuls of advice and reasoning from the citizen on the street, and these conversations appear to
                    have made a substantial impact. The affable bear of a man made friends quickly—in 
                        England
                     a pub owner had opened on Willkie's behalf the champagne he had been saving
                    for the end of the war—and his 
                  
                     12 Roosevelt later wrote Rollins College President 
                                Hamilton
                             Holt: "although I liked him [Willkie] personally, I did not feel that
                            he had much knowledge of the world and that he would have had to have learned about the
                            world in the school of hard experience. This would have been a rather dangerous experiment
                            in 1940." FDR to "Hammy," November 20, 1944, President's
                            Personal File 345 (FDR Library). For another view of Roosevelt's reasons for
                            sending Willkie abroad, see James MacGregor Burns, Roosevelt: The Soldier of
                                Freedom (
                                New York
                            , 1970), 276.
                  
                     13 Joseph W. Stilwell report of September 28, 1942, in Map Room file
                            B49 F4 (FDR Library); Mike Cowles quoted in Donald Connery, "‘One
                            World' Revisited," Vista, VIII (April, 1973), 26. Spellings of the names
                            of Chinese officials are as reported in One World.
                  
               
                     partiality to the cause of the go-getter drew him to
                    enterprising men and women of many lands who probably reminded him of his own kinetic past. In his
                    travels Willkie experienced firsthand the brotherhood of the striving, and it was the pent-up energy
                    of this constituency that he sought to tap in his postwar outlook.
            Willkie, Barnes, Cowles, and the military crew took off from Mitchel Field in 
                        New York
                     on August 26, 1942, just in time to miss the Labor Day start of the off-year election
                    blitz. The party proceeded first, via 
                        Brazil
                     and the then-secret 
                        United States
                     air base at Ascension Island, to the North African front. Here Willkie surveyed the
                    scene with 
                        Montgomery
                    , who convinced the American to proclaim an Allied victory at El Alamein despite
                    substantial evidence to the contrary; the decisive advance for which 
                        Montgomery
                     became famous did not occur until over a month later. It was not the last time that
                    Willkie would violate diplomatic convention with his candor, nor would it be the last time that he
                    was used, sometimes unwittingly, as a mouthpiece. Meanwhile, British dismay at Willkie's
                    advocacy of decolonization quickly became apparent: "What I got," he wrote,
                    "was Rudyard Kipling, untainted even with the liberalism of Cecil Rhodes."14
            
            The Gulliver, a converted B-24 Liberator, hopped across the Middle East after
                    leaving Cairo. Willkie gave the Shah of 
                        Iran
                     his first airplane ride, heard from both Jews and Arabs about their concern for the
                    future of the region, and observed the "growing spirit of fervid nationalism,"
                    which he also called a "yeast" of change. He met with de Gaulle, whose lack of
                    modesty is tangible in the book, and then with the British high commissioner for the region, who
                    "explained with infinite patience and good humor the distinctions an American finds it hard
                    to see between a colony and a mandated area." Willkie noted the tensions between
                    colonialism's order and freedom's disarray and hoped for something
                    "pragmatic" in the middle. With frightening prescience he wrote that "it
                    all added up to the conviction that these newly awakened people will be followers of some extremist
                    leader in this generation" if they were not granted some degree of self-government,
                    education, and religious freedom.15
            
            After commercial flights in and out of Turkey, where even a transport plane with military markings
                    would have violated neutrality, Willkie flew to Russia. He apparently enjoyed his stay there and
                    benefited from an allegedly free choice of itinerary. His visit to a packed Bolshoi ballet
                    performance, after which he kissed the ballerina, was greeted with the same chants of
                    "Willkie! Willkie! 
                  
                     14 Barnes, Willkie, 293; Wendell L. Willkie, One World (1943; reprint, 
                                Urbana
                            , Ill., 1966), 15. For details concerning the trip see Neal, Dark
                                Horse, 233–59; and Barnard, Wendell Willkie,
                            347–81.
                  
                     15 Willkie, One World, 22, 18, 23, 25, 31,
                        34.
               
                    
                    
                  WlLLKIE TOURS THE BAZAARS OF BAGHDAD Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                Willkie!" that had been the trademark of the 1940 campaign. As was his style, he
                    talked at length with journalists, workers, and soldiers, and the account in One
                    World of one such discussion proves revealing. Trying to persuade a shop foreman of the
                    injustice of a suppressed freedom of speech and the financial folly of non-interest-bearing bank
                    accounts, Willkie engaged in "hot colloquy," ending with the assertion that
                    "actually you've got no freedom." The man replied that freedom was a
                    relative phenomenon: compared to his parents and grandparents, the young Russian was thankful for
                    his opportunity to read, write, and advance his lot. Willkie had the last word in the debate,
                    asking, "How can you ever have political freedom and economic freedom when the state owns
                    everything?" But Willkie continues the story in his book, reporting an overheard
                    conversation between Gulliver's pilot and Barnes: 
                        "Listen, don't let's get away before you explain to that fellow
                            that Mr. Willkie was just trying to get him to talk. Sure, we in America like what money
                            will buy and  want to get ahead a bit, but it's
                            not only money that makes us work. This insignia on my shoulder brought me a big raise in
                            pay when I got it. But at the same time I got this ribbon here," pointing to the
                            ribbon of the Distinguished Flying Cross, "and that didn't bring a cent.
                            You tell him that I'd give the rank and the pay raise back for nothing, but I
                            wouldn't give away the ribbon for a million dollars."
                     The net effect of the account is to make the Russian point of view much more plausible
                    while not portraying Willkie as any less of a Republican capitalist.16
            
            The emissary visited with Stalin several times during his stay, and the respect and admiration that
                    resulted appear to have been mutual and genuine. Willkie called Stalin "a hard man, perhaps
                    even a cruel man, but a very able one," one who "has few illusions."
                    Noting the Soviet leader's "robust" sense of humor, the 
                  
                     16 Willkie, One World, 68–69. Willkie
                            wrote Malcolm Bingay, August 17, 1943: "I greeted the ballerina without plan or
                            purpose or foresight. She was merely a beautiful and lovely creature who had given an
                            extraordinary performance in my honor. Consequently, I presented to her a bouquet of
                            flowers. She put forward her beautiful cheek (unfortunately, not her lovely mouth) and I
                            kissed it." Copy in Barnes papers.
               
                    
                  WILLKIE VISITS "DEPRESSED AREAS" ON THE OUTSKIRTS OF BAGHDAD Courtesy Lilly
                            Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     American reported that the two did laugh together at what
                    Willkie called "unsubtle jokes and repartee," which would have made diplomats
                    skilled in banalities blanch. Stalin picked Willkie's brain on industrial productivity and
                    lodged a persuasive protest against protracted delays in the opening of the second front by the 
                        United States
                     and Great Britain. He found a sympathetic listener, ultimately coming to the judgment
                    that "you know I grew up as a Georgian peasant. I am unschooled in pretty talk. All I can
                    say is I like you very much."17
            
            At the state dinner honoring him on his last night in Moscow, Willkie reported later, he drank
                    fifty-three vodka toasts with the Soviet leader in the Kremlin and eventually found himself in a
                    tense situation. After a toast to the pilots in the war, Stalin stood and complained loudly about
                    Winston Churchill, who had intercepted a shipment of Lend-Lease P-38 Lightning fighters allegedly
                    intended for the Russians. The British ambassador protested that there was more to the story than
                    that, but Stalin said nothing as Willkie quickly intervened. He apparently smoothed feathers on both
                    sides with a pointedly worded toast to wartime unity. Leaning across the interpreter, Stalin told
                    his American guest after the remarks, "I like [your] plain-spokenness, but you
                    wouldn't have stolen 152 planes from me." What Stalin meant by
                    "stolen" is unclear; 
                        United States
                     policy did, however, favor the British, who received more advanced aircraft than the
                    Russians got. For his part the British ambassador told Barnes the next morning:
                    "Wilkie's [sic] interruption saved me last night. I could not
                    have replied to Stalin. Stalin spoke the truth." Willkie left Moscow for the province of
                    Yakutsk convinced that Russia was "a force that cannot be bypassed in any future
                        world."18
            
            The Yakutsk section of One World explicates most clearly the notion, present
                    throughout the book, that the world was simply an enlarged America. The citizens' energy
                    and self-confidence reminded Willkie of "the romance of our own Western
                    development." During an earlier day trip he endured a fourteen-hour jeep ride over rugged
                    terrain that made him understand more vividly "the stories my father used to tell me of
                    conditions in pioneer Indiana." 
                  
                     17 Willkie, One World, 83, 85. Edward R. Stettinius,
                            Jr., reported that an unfavorable portrayal of Willkie in Pravda had upset
                            Stalin. Knowing that the aftershock of a public apology would ruin Willkie's
                            political stock in America, Stalin was thought to be deciding on whether or not to send a
                            private apology. Mike Cowles to Willkie, February 18, 1944, Willkie Papers.
                  
                     18 Barnes, Willkie, 301–303; Barnes to
                            Henry A. Wallace, October 28, 1942, quoted in Wallace diary, typescript (used by permission
                            of the University of 
                                Iowa
                             Libraries, 
                                Iowa
                             City). Willkie, One World, 87. Barnes also told Wallace that
                            the American ambassador to Russia "barely escapes the use of the word
                            'senile.’ He…can do very little except hug his own
                            authority…. The top-flight Russians have an absolute contempt for him."
                            Wallace diary, October 28, 1942.
               
                     Muratov, a district official who "talked like a 
                        California
                     real-estate salesman," was "a man who would do well in
                    America." He reminded Willkie of the enterprising Americans who helped fuel "the
                    robust days of great development in this country," men who "were chiefly
                    interested in getting things done." The key to peace and prosperity, Willkie asserted, was
                    wartime cooperation that would flow into postwar trade and mutual development. "Frankly,
                    there are many things in Russia that we can admire—its vigor, its vast dreams, its
                    energy, its tenacity of purpose." In a revision of the Frederick Jackson Turner thesis,
                    perhaps, Willkie expanded the frontier to include the globe, with the psychic and resource benefits
                    accruing to a complacent, depressed America. A vast field of opportunity, with risk takers at the
                    ready, would energize the postwar order.19
            
            While Russia impressed Willkie the capitalist, in 
                        China
                     he had his heart stolen and judgment blurred more completely than anywhere else on the
                    trip. Generalissimo and Madame Chiang Kai-Shek placed their bets on Willkie as a political leader
                    with a future, and they gave him a series of elaborately staged parades and lectures that did much
                    to obscure the political situation and little to clarify it. Crowds of people holding American
                    flags—often upside down—lined his motorcade route after weeks of slum
                    clearance, arm twisting, and other preparations. Willkie apparently questioned the official version
                    of the story before succumbing to the flattery. Crowds that Generalissimo Chiang later called
                    "a spontaneous expression of the Chinese people's profound attachment to the 
                        United States
                    " were anything but; just the same, "they never failed to move me
                    deeply," the envoy reported. As Chiang convinced Willkie with his
                    deceptions—about the extent of corruption in the country, about the strength of the
                    military, about the Chinese Communists—Madame Chiang charmed the American completely. She
                    flirted, he flirted back, and the two became something of an item, much to the disgust of the
                    American diplomatic corps. Once again Willkie bypassed the foreign service structure—he
                    snubbed the embassy and stayed in quarters provided by the Chinese—and operated on his
                    own electoral instincts. As the ambassador, Clarence E. Gauss, cabled the secretary of state, 
                        Mr. Willkie has not held public office, nor, apparently, has he traveled extensively abroad.
                            His attitude at Chungking was perhaps more that of a visiting prominent American politician
                            than of a distinguished American acting as a "special representative of the
                            President." Chinese officials and other Chinese familiar with the 
                                United States
                             were somewhat amused at what they described as the American political 
                        
                           19 Willkie, One World, 100, 55, 97, 98. In his review of the
                                    book Malcolm Cowley wrote, "Willkie shows us a more appealing side of
                                    American democracy," based on an "underlying notion
                                    that…people are pretty much alike in all countries…."
                                    Cowley, "Last Man Around the World," New
                                    Republic, CVIII (April 19, 1943), 513.
                     
                             campaign technique of Mr. Willkie during his visit.
                            Others not familiar with the 
                                United States
                             or foreign countries were somewhat confused and startled but interested and
                            friendly.
                     How Gauss knew is an open question. He told his visitor in the presence of "high
                    Chinese," "One thing I am proud of, Mr. Wilkie [sic], is that in
                    twenty-two years in this country I have never learned the language."20
            
            As Willkie was being chastised by the diplomats and pitied by Stilwell, who saw him being taken in,
                    the envoy himself was in the midst of an infatuation worthy of an adolescent. He spent hours alone
                    with Madame Chiang, trying in part to convince her to fly back to America with him in the Gulliver. Even though the gossip columnist Drew Pearson may have exaggerated, his
                    account does not vary widely from others. Willkie, he wrote in his memoirs, told Barnes and Cowles
                    that "there was never anything like this before. It was the only time he said he had ever
                    been in love." Willkie found it difficult to say good-bye to the beautiful,
                    Wellesley-educated object of his affections. As Pearson reported the incident, "Willkie
                    went in. The door closed;…[the Gulliver travelers] waited. They waited
                    one hour and twenty minutes. She accompanied the party down to the plane and as he was about to get
                    on the plane, she jumped into his arms. Willkie picked her up and gave her a terrific soul
                    kiss." She later did come to America to address Congress on aid to 
                        China
                    , and Willkie introduced her to a 
                        Madison
                     Square Garden rally for United 
                        China
                     Relief. Afterward he spent time with her at the Waldorf-Astoria and sent her flowers
                    under three men's names: his, Barnes's, and Cowles's.21
            
            The Chiangs succeeded in selling Willkie their version of the truth, for the 
                        China
                     section of One World contains the book's most serious errors
                    of both fact and interpretation. The section on the army is perhaps the most telling example of his
                    misunderstanding or misrepresentation: 
                        The picture many Americans still have of a Chinese army as a band of professional ruffians
                            whose generals are experts at dickering with the enemy was probably never anything more than
                            a caricature of military affairs in a disunited, technically backward country. Today, it is
                            not even a caricature. Military 
                                China
                             is united; its leaders are trained and able generals; its new armies are tough,
                            fighting organizations of men who know both what they are fighting for and how to fight for
                            it, even though they markedly lack any quantity of modern fighting equipment. In 
                                China
                            , just as in Russia, this is truly a people's war.
                    
                    
                  
                     20 Willkie, One World, 128; Chiang Kai-Shek to FDR,
                            October 6, 1942, President's Secretary's File B.27 (FDR Library); John S.
                            Service to Clarence E. Gauss, November 14, 1942, File 032, Willkie, Wendell, Record Group 52
                            (National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D.C.); Gauss to secretary of state, October 8, 1942, ibid.;
                            Barnes to Wallace, October 28, 1942, Wallace diary.
                  
                     21 Drew Pearson, Diaries, 1949–1959, ed.
                            Tyler Abell (
                                New York
                            , 1974), 388; Neal, Dark Horse, 257.
               
                    
                    
                  WlLLKIE AND INTERPRETER AT CHENGTU, CHINA Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
                Willkie had seen, with Stilwell, shameless bartering between the Chinese and Japanese
                    troops near Sian. The "people's war" was in fact being fought by
                    peasants, not the sons of the aristocracy, peasants who were roped together as they marched to the
                    front. Once there, over half of the Chinese army was undersupplied to the point of starvation.22
            
            But Willkie was also correct in ways he could not foresee. The "organizations of men who
                    know both what they are fighting for and how to fight for it" were the Communists who would
                    take over the country six years later. Willkie did meet at length with Chou En-Lai, leaving with the
                    impression, soon unthinkable, that "their movement is more a national and agrarian
                    awakening than an international or proletarian conspiracy." At the same time the
                    Nationalists continued to use Willkie for their own purposes. One of 
                  
                     22 Willkie, One World, 145; Neal, Dark
                                Horse, 257–58. That the creation of an illusion was purposeful is clear
                            in a letter from Finance Minister H. H. Kung to Roosevelt on October 7, 1942: "I am
                            sure that having seen the facts in 
                                China
                             with his own eyes he will be able to give you a correct picture of 
                                China
                            's war efforts as well as of her problems and needs." The last
                            word is of course the operative one. President's Secretary's File B.27
                            (FDR Library). On what he labels The Great 
                                China
                             Hoax, the larger selling of 
                                China
                             to the American public in which One World is but one episode,
                            see Paul Fussell, Wartime: Understanding and Behavior in the Second World
                            War (
                                New York
                            , 1989), 162. For a more general view see Michael Schaller, The U.
                                S. Crusade in 
                                    China
                                , 1938–1945 (
                                New York
                            , 1979).
               
                     his speeches was seriously mistranslated by the same Hollington
                    ("Holly") Tong who so impressed Willkie in One World. When the
                    American spoke of a "dream" of a new world order, his Chinese audience heard the
                    word for "illusion." "The Chinese people," in Willkie's
                    phrasing, became the "Chinese nation" or "
                        China
                    " in translation. Even though he had been secretly advised beforehand that
                    "on no account" should he miss visiting with Chou En-Lai, who was closer to the
                    pulse of politics, Willkie ignored the forces of poverty and corruption that fueled Mao
                    Tsetung's revolution.23 From 
                        China
                     Willkie flew home via Siberia, Alaska, and 
                        Canada
                    , landing in 
                        Minneapolis
                     on October 13. The trip had covered 31,000 miles in forty-nine days. Willkie briefed
                    Roosevelt at the White House before beginning to draft a radio address conveying his impressions of
                    the trip. That October 26 speech, his "Report to the People," received a Hooper
                    rating of 48.0; an estimated 36,000,000 Americans heard the speech, which was twice as many as the
                    highest-rated commercial program that year could claim. Many listeners no doubt tuned in out of
                    curiosity, for in a pretelevision age when journalists were censored, plainspoken "news
                    from the front" would be welcomed. Former isolationists worried over and newly aroused
                    internationalists hoped for the possibility of a successor to the League of Nations, so many
                    citizens listened for news of this nature. Still others may have wondered about Roosevelt's
                    aims in sending Willkie abroad. The speech apparently articulated the aspirations of many Americans.
                    Clare Boothe Luce was but one voice in the chorus of approval when she sent a telegram reading
                    simply, "Last night the world heard the message of a global Abraham Lincoln." The
                        Christian Century called it "A Battle Cry for Freedom,"
                    claiming, "It was a victory—for humanity!" Such overwhelmingly positive
                    response to Willkie's message of internationalism, postwar harmony, and anticolonialism led
                    him to begin to consider writing the book that he originally wanted to title One War,
                        One Peace, One World, according to Barnes. But before the book could appear, Willkie got
                    entangled in more controversies.24
            
            
               
                  23 Willkie, One World, 130, 138; John S. Service to
                        Clarence E. Gauss, November 14, 1942, File 032, Record Group 52 (National Archives); unsigned,
                        undated memo to Willkie from Chinese source, 
                            Van
                         Doren Papers: "Chou En-Lai is the only man who can give you the Communist
                        version of the truth and he will give it soberly and sincerely. There is more truth in it, much
                        more I fear, than in the Kuomintang version. On no account miss him."
               
                  24 Barnes, Willkie, 310–12; Clare Boothe Luce
                        to Willkie, October 27, 1942, Willkie Papers; "A Battle Cry for Freedom," Christian Century, LIX (November 4, 1942), 1343. On the cultural aspects of
                        the isolationist-internationalist debate in this period, see Robert Dallek, The
                            American Style of Foreign Policy (
                            New York
                        , 1983), 130ff.; and Dallek, "How We See the Soviets," in Shared Destiny: Fifty Years of Soviet-American Relations, ed. Mark Garrison
                        and Abbott Gleason (
                            Boston
                        , 1985), 88–92.
            
            
            Besides alienating the British with his anticolonialism, Willkie made life difficult for the
                    Roosevelt administration by calling for swifter action on the second front to relieve pressure on
                    the Russians. Meanwhile, Republicans were reluctant to endorse his brand of globalism so soon after
                    their romance with isolationism and before Arthur Vandenberg helped move the party toward a
                    different sort of internationalism at the Mackinac Island conference of September, 1943. Finally,
                    Willkie was censored for his stern criticism of the deal General Eisenhower had struck with the
                    Vichy stooge Jean Darlan in order to give Roosevelt time to calm and diffuse other critics of his
                    administration's cynical expediency. As of November, then, when he was being challenged and
                    often misquoted on his postwar ideas, Willkie is said to have begun thinking of a book.25
            
            Additional evidence for such an assertion comes from a series of exchanges between Willkie and
                    Forrest Davis, a writer doing a story on the trip for the Saturday Evening Post.
                    Davis approached Willkie in the guise of a political supporter, having apparently worked for
                    Willkie's 1940 running mate, Charles L. McNary. At some point in late November or early
                    December, Willkie told Davis many stories from the trip, which the reporter then used to draft an
                    account highly critical of Willkie's behavior. Willkie responded to Davis's
                    follow-up questions with a cautious letter dated December 7. He wanted to be sure that
                    "everything you said about my views…were [sic] to be subject
                    to my revision." In defense of his seeming paranoia Willkie started: "I have a
                    notion that the Administration through many sources…is trying to give very definite
                    misrepresentations about the trip. Naturally, when I knew you were close to the State Department, I
                    have been a bit worried about your approach." Davis sent Willkie a draft of the story on
                    January 7 with requests for both commentary and recollections of Willkie's remarks in the
                        Kremlin.26
            
            Willkie read the draft and exploded. Davis had written that Willkie had not known of the internal
                    politics of the second front decision, had blurred the lines of his role as a personal envoy of the
                    president, and had become "the champion of Russia and Asia against the West,"
                    thereby ceasing to be "the embodiment of wartime political unity in this country."
                    These statements may have irritated Willkie because of their political implications, for such
                    assertions would condemn him in a wartime election. He called Davis, who kept a stenographic
                    transcript of the conversation that he passed on to Adolph Berle at the State Department with the
                        
                  
                     25 Barnes, Willkie, 311–12. On Willkie
                            and Republican foreign policy see Robert Divine, Second Chance: The Triumph of
                                Internationalism in America during World War II (
                                New York
                            , 1967), especially 103–106.
                  
                     26 The complete Willkie-Forrest Davis correspondence is in the Barnes
                            Papers.
               
                     remark, "That is a dangerous man and
                    unaccountable." Willkie charged, "If the President told you I was ignorant of the
                    second front when I left on my trip, he is a damned liar." He further claimed that one of
                    the Office of War Information men on the trip "got a clearance from 
                        Washington
                     before I issued the statement" in Moscow in support of quicker action to aid
                    the Russians.27
            
            Willkie may also have tried to squelch Davis for reasons of editorial exclusivity: he may have been
                    afraid of having his own book "scooped" by a major magazine. One
                        World was well underway by the time of the Davis exchange, and even though Willkie would
                    establish a charitable fund with the book's proceeds instead of accepting royalty payments,
                    he still probably wanted to protect his juiciest material. He drafted letters to Davis, Secretary of
                    State Cordell Hull, and Roosevelt himself asking that the Davis piece be suppressed. "I do,
                    however, urge you not to publish the references to Mr. Stalin in his relationship with me,"
                    he wrote to Davis, "or anything he is presumed to have said in my presence, or I in his.
                    For, as you have written them, they contain inaccuracies and serious misconceptions. Their
                    publication can only do harm." The Stalin quotations, of course, helped Willkie sell over a
                    million copies of his own book a few months later.28
            
            In the writing of One World Willkie received some astute advice, much of which he
                    disregarded. A letter from the columnist Joseph Alsop, at the time working for the Lend-Lease
                    office, reveals some probing criticisms that Willkie chose to evade. Alsop wanted to explain
                    "why I think your recent line has been so wrong," doing so in four stages. First,
                    he disagreed with Willkie on the importance of decolonization, arguing that it would be but one of
                    many issues to be addressed after the war; after "all the moral hogwash has been thrown
                    down the drain," it was a "minor problem." Second, Alsop defined
                    "moral hogwash" as "any thinking on international
                    problems…that does not consider them solely in light of America's
                    interests." The subjugation of colonial peoples had had little global impact in the past,
                    Alsop asserted, except that they made Britain rich—"on the whole a good
                    thing." After liberation the internal weaknesses of the former colonies would make them important global players, especially when revolution would align them with
                    Russia. Third, the domestic implications of such misguided internationalism would reinforce the
                    isolationist political right. 
                  
                     27 Draft of Davis article, pp. 3, 3A, Barnes Papers; Davis to Adolph
                            Berle, January 10, 1943, File 032, Record Group 52 (National Archives); Davis transcript of
                            Willkie call, January 8, 1943, ibid.
                  
                  
                     28 Handwritten draft of letter from Willkie to Davis, January 8, 1943,
                            Barnes Papers. See also Willkie to Davis, January 8, 1943, Official File 4040 (FDR Library);
                            Willkie to FDR, January 8, 1943, ibid.; Stephen T. Early to Willkie,
                            January 15, 1943, ibid.
                  
               
                    
                    
                        If for windy moral reasons we are to adopt a policy which will in fact encourage a great
                            extension of Russian influence, I can see only two possible results: A) The country will
                            become frightened, and turn in upon itself, which will result in a homegrown Fascism; or B)
                            Again from fright, we shall resort to a particularly brutal homegown [sic]
                            imperalism.
                     Finally, Willkie had been urging wartime leaders to forge in the heat of combat a plan for
                    postwar cooperation. Alsop disagreed: "it seems to me perfectly idiotic to try to make this
                    agreement specific." He, like many observers, thought Willkie noble but naive for trying to
                    bend America to a moral agenda in wartime. "I think you have been far too much influenced
                    by the fair things you saw in Moscow and Chungking…. [The Russians] are a powerful and a
                    brave people, but it is difficult to imagine Stalin and his subordinates worrying about moral
                        questions."29
            
            Alsop's critique paralleled that of Walter Lippmann, whose contribution to the postwar
                    policy genre did not sell nearly as well as the work of the far less realistic Willkie. Both
                    journalists had more confidence in imperialistic Britain as the European anchor of an Anglo-American
                    alliance than in the goodwill of liberated colonies. Alsop and Lippmann endorsed, in short, a
                    sphere-of-interest internationalism that recognized differences in objectives, methods, and cultures
                    among sovereign nations. National interest, in their view a valid criterion for decision making,
                    thus took precedence over the fuzzy but appealing moral brotherhood present in what might be called
                    universalist internationalism. Willkie may have been the first major politician to realize the
                    looming importance of what is now the Third World, coming to his conclusions in stubborn defiance of
                    intellectual and political fashion, but he failed to account for nationalist self-interest as a
                    motivating factor, at home and among the foreign countries he romanticized.30
            
            Willkie's faith in international goodwill alienated him still further from the leadership of
                    his party. He widened the gap—from Vandenberg in particular—by stressing, as
                    Alsop warned him not to, the need for agreement on postwar peace plans with nations that more
                    seasoned observers predicted would become enemies after the Nazis were defeated. The loneliness of
                    his position, and his commitment to it, left Willkie with either an uphill intraparty battle against
                    politicians he detested and had alienated or a direct appeal to the same masses that had packed the
                    galleries at the 1940 convention. How much the book was in fact an electoral maneuver and how much
                    of it grew from genuine moral conviction is 
                  
                     29 Joseph Alsop to Willkie, November 30, 1942, Willkie Papers.
                  
                     30 Walter Lippmann, 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Foreign Policy: Shield of the Republic (
                                Boston
                            , 1943); Paul Carter, Revolt Against Destiny: An Intellectual
                                History of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1989), 234; Dallek, American Style of Foreign Policy,
                        133.
               
                     of course impossible to determine, but the success of One World must have at least tempted Willkie into thinking about 1944.31
            
            The text of One World presents a series of contradictions. Willkie found a world of
                    diversity yet blandly converted it into a global version of the World War II movie where the 
                        Brooklyn
                     Jew, the 
                        Iowa
                     farmboy, the 
                        Boston
                     Irish kid, and the Italian from 
                        Chicago
                     all pull together to defeat the "krauts." He wrote a book on postwar
                    foreign policy less expert than the studies by Luce, Lippmann, Hoover, and many others, and he
                    outsold them all. Attacked for relying on ghostwriters, Willkie claimed the book was entirely his
                    after acquiring long sections of description and analysis from two experienced reporters. Travelogue
                    blends into political tract, recollection into advocacy, yet the whole melange somehow coheres. As
                    James Tobin noted in an unpublished analysis, Willkie eschewed ponderous point-by-point legalistic
                    argument in favor of vivid illustration. "One World," he argued,
                    "was, in effect, a global field trip in which Willkie, the eager teacher, pointed excitedly
                    to each new sight, providing lessons about the need for an internationalist peace." Making
                    the distant appear safe by transforming it into a global America, Willkie presented internationalism
                    as an exercise in frontier neighborliness, not abstruse diplomatic intrigue.32
            
            Willkie wrote, in essence, two books. The first, consisting of the first nine chapters, describes and
                    comments on his trips to specific nations. His opening provides a powerful statement of basic
                    premises: the technology of flight and communication had interconnected the people of the world, so
                    American policy could no longer rely on oceans or sheer distance as an excuse for ignorance of
                    foreign culture and politics. In the first two pages Willkie set the tone for the whole voyage: the
                    world was not exotic or remote but hospitable and proximate. "The net impression of my
                    trip," he proclaimed, "was not one of distance from other peoples, but of
                    closeness to them." His travels were "no more arduous than the trips an American
                    businessman may make any day of his life to carry on his business." Implicitly rejecting or
                    neglecting both American and foreign nationalism, Willkie argued, "what concerns 
                  
                     31 Vandenberg remained adamant about winning the war before discussing
                            the peace. He wrote one constituent: "The most responsible
                            opinions in our Government (and this does not exclude our own State Department) believe that
                            we might easily disunite the war effort by prematurely
                            seeking to unite the peace effort…. Axis
                            strategy could achieve no greater gain than to split axis enemies apart while the shooting
                            still goes on." Vandenberg to Harold Titus, April 23, 1943, Arthur H. Vandenberg
                            Papers (Bentley Historical Library, University of 
                        Michigan, Ann Arbor
                     ).
                  
                     32 James Tobin, "Why We Fight: Versions of the American
                            Purpose in World War II" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History, University of 
                                Michigan
                            , 1986), 69.
               
                     them must concern us, almost as much as the problems of the
                    people of 
                        California
                     concern the people of 
                        New York
                    ." This often provincial internationalism permeated the entire trip and much of
                    the book. At the same time Willkie's portrayal of a pluralistic world living in commercial
                    harmony represents the triumph of ethnic cosmopolitanism at home: for the world to be an America
                    writ large, that America had to embrace ethnic diversity. Ironically, the domestic failures of civil
                    rights to which Willkie was so attuned could be conveniently overlooked by readers who could applaud
                    the fulfillment of diversity's promise in Peking or Beirut but not in 
                        Atlanta
                     or 
                        Detroit
                    .33
            
            The second section, chapters ten through fourteen, contains the larger argument for making One World a reality. Willkie detected a "reservoir of good will"
                    toward America, a reservoir that both constituted a vital resource and needed replenishment. This
                    task could be accomplished with a series of actions. First, Willkie saw a need for the Allies to
                    establish ground rules for peace while yoked together in military necessity. These rules should
                    contain provisions, he continued, for an international organization, "a common council in
                    which all plan together." He called for rapid decolonization of foreign outposts of empire
                    and equality for the American minorities who historically had served as scapegoats in domestic
                    politics. What results is uneven. Prescience and discernment follow on the heels of shortsightedness
                    and gullibility. Captivated by magnetic personalities much like his own, Willkie frequently accepted
                    assertions on faith. Funding for this international realignment was never discussed. In fairness to
                    Willkie, however, his vision was more quickly undone by events than by its own failure of logic. The
                    globe would shrink, but spy satellites and intercontinental ballistic missiles, not trade routes and
                    cultural exchange, would more frequently be the agents.34
            
            At the time of the book's publication, of course, the cold war had not yet defined the
                    course of postwar internationalism, so Willkie contributed to what was still a live, and lively,
                    debate. The responses to the book, like Alsop's criticisms of the ideas behind it,
                    illustrate much about the tenor, media, and premises of the discussion over the shape of the postwar
                    world. Books such as Willkie's did not generate postwar policy, but neither did such policy
                    evolve in a vacuum. The critical and popular responses to One World, then, can be
                    viewed as contributions to a political debate and as artifacts from a world very different from the
                    present one.
            
               One World quickly drew substantial attention from reviewers. Nearly all had
                    something positive to say, although the various critics 
                  
                     33 Willkie, One World, 1–2; Dallek, American Style of Foreign Policy, 136–37.
                  
                     34 Willkie, One World, 178.
               
                     differed in the extent of their confidence in the plausibility
                    of Willkie's postwar blueprint. Many contrasted the 1943 internationalist Willkie with the
                    naive candidate of 1940, finding growth of some nature and often referring to the
                    "education" of Wendell Willkie. Finally, many reviewers used their positive
                    assessments of Willkie's well-intentioned foreign outlook as a springboard for pointed
                    questions about the direction of his domestic program.
            Reviewers of the book debated the degree of Willkie's gullibility and realism. Malcolm
                    Cowley doubted "that anybody during the whole trip sold him a bill of goods,"
                    while William L. Shirer, in a friendly review, argued, "There is nothing naive
                    here…he…shows he knows what the score is." Adam Clayton Powell stated
                    confidently, "Willkie knows the world because he knows the people." On the
                    opposing side Max Lerner found some "profound naivetes," and George N. Shuster
                    asked about Willkie's slight of "more than a quarter billion folk who inhabit
                    Europe proper." Harold Stassen found both an imbalance between the
                    "wrongs" of British colonialism and the "evils" of communism and
                    too much willingness to "accept his samplings as being absolutely correct
                    samples." Reinhold Niebuhr wondered, with many others, how liberty could be "kept
                    from becoming suicidal" in the interdependent world Willkie foresaw. Nevertheless, most
                    critics praised One World for many things, among them Willkie's
                    "restraint and utter sincerity," the "crispness of his excellent
                    narrative," his "courage and candor," his unique position as an
                    "honorable and alert conservative," and the "calmness of faith in the
                    resources of humanity to ameliorate its condition."35
            
            Countless reviews expressed surprise at and approval for the somehow "new" Willkie.
                    The New Yorker's Clifton Fadiman was impressed by "his profound
                    educability, a quality rarely to be found in big businessmen." 
                        Norman
                     Thomas saw "a kind of moral leadership," Niebuhr a gain "in
                    moral stature since his defeat in the election." The Commonweal editorial
                    board "used not to think much of Wendell Willkie" before the trip, but
                    "we think more of him now." One World "might be
                    described as a chapter in the education of Wendell Willkie," began the review in Current History, which went on to speculate that "the [party] bosses
                    consider Willkie 
                  
                     35 Cowley, "Last Man Around the World," 513; William
                            L. Shirer, review of One World,
                            
                                New York
                            
                            Herald-Tribune Weekly Book Review, April 11, 1943, p. 1; Adam Clayton
                            Powell, review of One World, The People's Voice, June 5, 1943;
                            Max Lerner, "Willkie's World," PM, April 8,
                            1943, p. 2; George N. Schuster, review of One World, Political Science
                                Quarterly, LVIII (September, 1943), 428, 426; Stassen, 
                        
                                    New York
                                 Times Book Review, April 11, 1943, p. 1; Reinhold Niebuhr,
                            "Mr. Willkie's Two Odysseys," Nation, CLVI
                            (April 24, 1943), 604; Frederick Sherwood Dunn, "The World and Mr.
                            Willkie," Yale Review, XXXII (June, 1943), 786; Edward Weeks,
                            "The Eagle's Eye," Atlantic Monthly, CLXXI
                            (May, 1943), 123; T. V. Smith, review of One World, Ethics, LIV (October,
                            1943), 58.
               
                     too liberal and forward-looking. That is a good sign, though it
                    might well mean that it will cost him the Presidential nomination in 1944." Just after
                    hearing the "Report to the People" address, Lerner wrote in the New
                        Republic that Willkie's "simple morality and clear social analysis may
                    seem…[to Republican party regulars] the sheerest sort of lunacy." Six months
                    later Lerner "tried to imagine what [Thomas E.] Dewey or [John W.] Bricker would have seen
                    on a trip of this sort," arguing in his PM column that Willkie
                    "is head and shoulders above every other Republican mentioned." The economist
                    Walton 
                        Hamilton
                    , who reviewed the book in the Progressive, "would breathe a
                    bit more easily if a speech half as realistic and a third as brave should come from the White
                        House."36
            
            Observers of the unpredictable Willkie wondered how his radical plans for decolonization and global
                    cooperation would affect his domestic agenda, which many still associated with big business
                    Republicanism. Earl Browder hoped Willkie would "give us an equally strong book on domestic
                    problems before next year." Lerner complained that Willkie had ignored the
                    "imperialism of our corporations and cartels and peak manufacturers’
                    associations." Both T. V. Smith, the University of 
                        Chicago
                     philosopher-congressman, and Niebuhr wondered about the significance of the exchange
                    between Major Richard Kight and Joseph Barnes in which Kight spoke of the irrelevance of money and
                    the symbolic import of the Flying Cross. "I may be wrong," wrote Niebuhr, 
                        but I think the old Mr. Willkie conducted the debate with the Russian superintendent, while
                            the new Mr. Willkie found it necessary to add his pilot's refutation of his
                            commercial creed. It was probably the political and circumspect Mr. Willkie who allowed his
                            pilot rather than himself to give expression to sentiments which the traditional devotees of
                            the "American way of life" must regard as rank heresy.37
                  
                    
            
            After Willkie dropped out of the 1944 presidential race early in the primary season, curiosity as to
                    his domestic intentions of course became moot. His commentary on that year's party
                    platforms, An American Program, enjoyed only tiny sales and did little to stir the
                    heated emotions that One World did, probably because Willkie had died by the time
                    it came out. But the failure of the domestic book should not detract from the substantial public
                    impact 
                  
                     36 Clifton Fadiman, review of One World, New Yorker,
                            XIX (April 17, 1943), 79; 
                                Norman
                             Thomas, "Willkie's World," Common
                                Sense, XII (June, 1943), 223; Niebuhr, "Mr. Willkie's Two
                            Odysseys," 604; "Willkie Sees the World," Commonweal, XXXVIII (April 30, 1943), 45; Alvin Adey, "Willkie
                            Learns," Current History, IV (May, 1943), 220–21; Max
                            Lerner, "The Education of Wendell Willkie," New
                            Republic, CVII (October 26, 1942), 537; Lerner, "Willkie's
                            World," 2; Walton 
                                Hamilton
                            , review of One World, Progressive, May 10, 1943, n.p.
                  
                     37 Earl Browder, review of One World, Daily Worker,
                            April 18, 1943; Browder, review of One World, New Masses, XLVII (April 27,
                            1943), 17; Lerner, "Willkie's World," 2; Niebuhr, "Mr.
                            Willkie's Two Odysseys," 606; Smith, review of One
                            World, 59.
               
                     of Willkie's call for global humanism. E. B. White
                    recalled that One World "wasn't a very good book, but a very
                    important book, one that will take its place on the permanent shelf of this hopeful, groping
                    planet." The massive popular response, while failing to vault Willkie over the obstructions
                    of the Republican party, did serve to spur public debate over the purposes of the war and the
                    prospects of peace.38
            
            One writer compared One World to Uncle Tom's Cabin, arguing that these two
                    books both indicated and served to encourage ground swells of ideological transition: the
                    "average man has just come to realize that he is passing out of one age and into
                    another." As with Harriet Beecher Stowe's book, "the success of Mr.
                    Willkie's book similarly presages a world-conscious America of tomorrow…which is
                    a distinctly hopeful sign alike from America's and the world's point of
                    view." Another columnist theorized that because "the big [book] market is the
                    American public whose sons have gone off to war," Willkie's plan for peace
                    attracted people who were paying for the success of the war effort; "if there is
                        in…[One World] the key to warding off future wars, they want to
                    know it. These are mighty good reasons for buying a dollar book." Such analyses were
                    frequent, as were expressions of appreciation that Willkie was so practical. Fearing that the envoy
                    had come home "with an unworkable and unrealistic plan," the editor of the 
                        Knoxville
                    
                    Journal found out otherwise and reassured his readers that One
                    World was "no mush-and-milk Utopia." Willkie's legacy as a
                    successful businessman may have contributed to such sighs of relief, especially among observers who
                    resisted New Deal meddling.39
            
            Simon and Schuster included with some copies of One World a response card for the
                    buyer to fill out and return. A handful of these survive, giving an admittedly skewed picture of
                    what citizens made of Willkie's ideas. One newspaper story involving the response cards
                    asserted that women clerks thought Willkie was "‘a swell guy' and like
                    [d] the glint in his eye in his portrait on the jacket." But the article's
                    conclusion expressed admiration for the intelligence of selected responses which proved that
                    "some women, if not enough, are forgetting personal preoccupations and thinking hard about
                    a better world." Willkie was a ladies man of sorts, and the news of his own affair with
                    Irita 
                        Van
                     Doren was widely known in the pre-Gary Hart political environment of the 1940s. The
                    cards 
                  
                     38 Wendell Willkie, An American Program (
                                New York
                            , 1944). Willkie's foreword is dated September 25, 1944; he died
                            October 8. E. B. White quoted in Connery, "‘One World’
                            Revisited," 46. On the lack of defined war aims see Fussell, Wartime, 133; and Tobin, "Why We Fight," passim.
                  
                  
                     39 William J. McNally, "The Success of ‘One
                            World,’ " 
                                Minneapolis
                            
                            Morning Tribune, May 1, 1943, in 
                                Van
                             Doren Papers; B. J. Lewis, no title, 
                                Albany
                            
                            Knickerbocker-News, May 6, 1943, in ibid.; Guy L. Smith,
                                "One World: No Mush-and-Milk Utopia," 
                                Knoxville
                            
                            Journal, no date, in Willkie Papers.
               
                     that survive, however, show that the men and women who read the
                    book were more serious than the newspaper report suggested.40
            
            One respondent thought "every American who can read should read it and read it out loud to
                    those who can't read." Others approved of Willkie because he spoke out even at the
                    cost of his political career. One unidentified reader called him "a
                    statesman—not a politician," while another echoed Clare Boothe Luce's
                    characterization: "I think he is the Abraham Lincoln of the post-war world." This
                    perception of the book's globalism—"the whole human race really is one
                    family"—was an extreme reading of Willkie's message but one with which
                    he might not have been uncomfortable. Miss Hettie Gray Baker identified the author as "the
                    man who is, I hope, destined to be the first president of the World Federation."41 Such a federation was the nightmare of Hoover, Vandenberg, and other
                    Republicans who saw any international peacetime cooperation as a potential loss of American
                    sovereignty. Willkie never aligned himself formally with either the Federal Union favored by Mrs.
                    Thomas Lament, Lewis Mumford, and Max Lerner or with the other global government plans, but his book
                    could be, and apparently was, read approvingly by partisans of that view. The book's
                    popularity rested, finally, on its outline of a world where no more American blood would be shed
                    abroad—a goal that internationalists and former isolationists could share—and
                    on its travelogue descriptions, hopeful humanism, and self congratulation that all the world wanted
                    to emulate American traits.
            With so many reasons to buy the book, Americans did so, and One World held a
                    distinctive place in publishing history. While it was, in its time, the third American nonfiction
                    book to sell a million copies, after Dale Carnegie's How to Win Friends and
                        Influence People (1936) and the H. G. Wells Outline of History (1920),
                    Willkie's book was the fastest seller, reaching the million mark in only seven weeks. It
                    was serialized in American newspapers with a combined circulation of nearly seven million and
                    condensed in several magazines. Foreign translations into numerous languages—including
                    Portuguese, Hindu-Urdu, and Chinese—soon appeared, and the book became a best seller in 
                        Germany
                     after the war. In contrast to Herbert Hoover, who privately made large wholesale buys
                    of his own book, The Problems of Lasting Peace,
                    
                  
                     40 "Women Read Willkie's Book with Man, Not Ideas in
                            Mind," 
                                New York
                            
                            Herald-Tribune, May 2, 1943, clipping in 
                                Van
                             Doren Papers. In terms of Willkie's reputation as a womanizer, it is
                            worth noting that Mary McCarthy's short story, "The Man in the Brooks
                            Brothers Shirt," was thought by some to be based on Willkie. See
                            McCarthy's The Company She Keeps (
                                New York
                            , 1942), 79–134.
                  
                     41 Response cards in One World scrapbook, 
                                Van
                             Doren Papers.
               
                    
                    
                  LIST OF BEST SELLERS FROM NEW YORK TIMES BOOK REVIEW, MAY 30, 1943
                  Copyright © 1943 by The 
                                New York
                             Times Company. Reprinted by permission.
               
                     Willkie apparently did not pad his sales figures with large
                    inside purchases of books for donation.42
            
            With any book that sells a million-plus copies, the question of money must be raised. Willkie enjoyed
                    a comfortable wealth from his days as the head of the Commonwealth and Southern group of electric
                    utilities, so he did not need income from book royalties. Instead, he insisted that these funds be
                    put into a separate account to be used for the work of putting the ideals of the book into practice.
                    A little over a year after publication, Mike Cowles reported that $150,163 in Simon and
                    Schuster royalties had been deposited. Only two disbursements can be detected, each of
                    $5,000: one to the Council on Foreign Relations and one to the Legal Defense and
                    Educational Fund of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. Willkie died in
                    October, 1944, just after these grants were made, so he was unable to direct the bulk of the funds
                    to the projects he held most dear.43
            
            Another $25,000 of income was reported from the sale of the move rights to One World. The cinematic endorsement of universalist internationalism began with Darryl F.
                    Zanuck's highly skewed film biography entitled Wilson (1944). The League
                    of Nations defeat was explained by the Senate's spiteful ill temper, leaving the former
                    president a martyr to the cause of peace. Willkie, a member of the Fox board of directors at the
                    time he sold the rights to One World to that studio, had backed the Wilson film and soon heard even greater success predicted for his story. "I feel
                    strongly," Zanuck wrote Willkie, 
                        that we have created visual propaganda for world unity in such a manner that even our most
                            severe critics will find nothing to accuse us of. The script is powerful, humorous, most
                            unusual, and told in very good taste…. We have a show—a real solid
                            entertaining show. This is no dull, ponderous preachment, nor has it anything to do with the
                            stereotyped documentary films now flooding the market; yet for all our entertaining values
                            we have never once compromised with your theme of One World. No punches have been
                        pulled.
                     He admitted, however, that "certain dramatic liberties have been taken here and
                    there." There is no indication that Willkie objected, in principle, to these proposals, but
                    the movie was removed from the Fox pipeline even before Willkie's death despite
                    Zanuck's enthusiasm 
                  
                     42 Barnes, Willkie, 315; newspaper serialization
                            specified in document in Willkie Papers; Gary Dean Best, Herbert Hoover: The
                                Postpresidential Years, 1933–1964 (Palo Alto, Calif., 1983), 213.
                            Herbert Hoover and Hugh Gibson, Problems of Lasting Peace (
                                Garden City
                            , N.Y., 1942). The hand-to-hand circulation of Willkie's book was well
                            documented in several archival sources, and many readers reported that each copy was read by
                            several people. On the commotion at Simon and Schuster during the book's phenomenal
                            sales—"the staff checks up on…[the sales figures] from moment
                            to moment, the way people keep looking at the thermometer on a hot
                            day"—see "The Talk of the Town," New
                                Yorker, XIX (May 15, 1943), 14.
                  
                     43 Gardner ("Mike") Cowles to Willkie, May 5, 1944,
                            Willkie Papers; Willkie to Cowles, June 19, 1944, ibid.; Cowles to
                            Willkie, May 18, 1944, ibid.
                  
               
                     for 
                        Spencer
                     Tracy to play the lead role. "The situation had changed,"
                    Zanuck's biographer reports him as saying. No other explanation ever appeared, but the
                    stillbirth of Willkie's 1944 campaign could not have been commercially encouraging to the
                    shrewd moviemaker.44
            
            The various treatments and screenplays, now in the Library of Congress, provide a glimpse into
                    Zanuck's thinking. Compare two versions of the ending: 
                        The music has started before this and is now beginning to swell…The banners fill
                            the screen and the music rises to a triumphant climax as we show the united world marching
                            shoulder to shoulder and in step at last—with a job to do and sorrow to be
                            endured—but with hope and faith in the future………
                        FADE OUT
                        [early treatment of One World, September 22, 1943]
                     In a later version the Willkie character ends the movie with a brilliant campaign speech to
                    the widow of a soldier killed in the war, followed by words of agreement from 
                        Montgomery
                    , Generalissimo and Madame Chiang Kai-Shek, Stalin, and other figures from the film.
                        
                        He wanted his boy to have the same kind of life he'd had—the same kind of
                            life his father had and I had—the kind of life every kid has a right to. You
                            know—that first Christmas he can remember—his first dog—the
                            first time he went swimming naked in the river—maybe a fistfight at
                            school—and his mother to put brown paper on his eye when he got
                            home…Riding a plow-horse—and bobsledding in the winter. Swiping a
                            punkin-head for Hallowe'en and dressing up in his mother's best sheets.
                            Going bare-footed in the summer and stubbing his toes. Popcorn and a
                            taffy-pull—spending his own money for Christmas presents. Belonging to the Boy
                            Scouts and going off for a weekend in the hills. Getting his first shotgun and going after
                            rabbits with Gordon and his dad. Hitting a three bagger for the high school
                            team—putting on his first long pants, and walking home from church with his best
                            girl and feeling pretty chesty. Going on a hay ride and finding he's holding hands
                            with the wrong girl—when all the time he's really stuck on a little kid
                            named Skip, who lives down the road and who he'd grown up scrapping with. Dancing
                            in the drugstore with her, taking her home, kissing her—suddenly knowing what he
                            wants and realizing that so does she. Suddenly knowing he's grown up and so is
                            she—and knowing it's been pretty fine having these things—and
                            wanting to pass 'em on—to his own son.
                        (quietly)
                        That's what it all meant, Janie. That's why boys like him are willing to go
                            over there. Because they've known how good this world can be.
                        (very softly)
                        That's why he wasn't afraid to die.
                        [and so on for another twenty lines]
                        [second temporary screenplay, December 14, 1943]
                     When the cinematic Willkie told Janie that "People all over the world are crying
                    tonight…Girls like you in 
                        China
                    —and Russia— 
                  
                     44 Cowles to Willkie, May 5, 1944, ibid.; Darryl F.
                            Zanuck to Willkie, December 10, 1943, ibid.; Leonard Moseby, Zanuck (
                                Boston
                            , 1984), 215. On Wilson see Divine, Second
                                Chance, 169–71.
               
                     in 
                        England
                    ," the clear implication that the whole world was like America reinforced the
                    subtext of the book. But the juncture of global independence movements, domestic electoral ambition,
                    and Hollywood melodrama remains a bizzare one, especially because the movie's release in an
                    election year, with a box-office attraction like Tracy, would have entailed the portrayal of a
                    controversial political figure by an adored movie actor.45
            
            The entire episode is richly ironic. Zanuck, acutely attuned to trends in popular perception, dropped
                    the movie project quickly and quietly once he sensed a shift in the breezes, his earlier enthusiasm
                    notwithstanding. Serving as media consultants, Zanuck and the newspapermen could not envision a
                    Willkie rebirth; they ascertained, and helped to create, his status as "cold
                    news." While Willkie had met with foreign peoples on their own soil, mingling with them in
                    streets and bazaars, Vandenberg and the other Republican leaders determined the fate of the postwar
                    world at a remote enclave of the Midwest aristocracy. Adopting the name of a biting
                    satirist's cynical character for his airplane, Willkie took a wide-eyed and naive stance
                    toward the people he met: he apparently saw no irony in the plane's name. (On the other
                    hand, such lack of guile is refreshing: today, a politician would call the plane something much more
                    carefully calculated.) Finally, the very success of the book had to heighten Willkie's
                    estimation of his chances at the same time that it solidified the resolve of Republican party
                    insiders to defeat him.
            There remains a temptation to call Willkie the father of the third world, a global Abraham Lincoln,
                    or a visionary of the first rank. He was farsighted in his commitment to global humanism, to be
                    sure, but equally myopic in his recognition of corruption and instability in the same developing
                    nations he praised at the expense of Great Britain and, to an extent, the 
                        United States
                     itself. Confusing international realpolitik for an expanded version
                    of domestic politics as a necessary consequence of a shrinking globe revealed 
                  
                     45 The film treatments can be found in 
                                Van
                             Doren Papers. Compare the second screenplay with the 
                                New Haven
                             Railroad advertisement of the period dedicated to "The Kid in Upper
                            4" as reprinted in Fussell, Wartime, 194: Tonight, he knows,
                                he is leaving behind a lot of little things—and big ones.
                            The taste of hamburgers and pop…the feel of driving a roadster over a six-lane
                                highway…a dog named Shucks, or Spot, or Barnacle Bill.
                            The pretty girl who writes so often…that grey-haired man, so proud and awkward
                                at the station…the mother who knit the socks he'll wear soon.
                            Tonight he's thinking them over.
                            There's a lump in his throat. And maybe—a tear fills his eye. It doesn't matter, Kid. Nobody will
                                see…it's too dark.
                            A couple of thousand miles away, where he's going, they don't know him
                                very well.
                            But people all over the world are waiting, praying for him to come.
                            
                        And he will come, this kid in Upper 4.
                            With new hope, peace, and freedom for a tired, bleeding world.
                  
               
                     both Willkie's clumsy if sometimes courageous view of
                    American politics and a limited willingness to appreciate nationalistic and clannish/tribal
                    antagonisms sometimes thousands of years old. Nevertheless, his deeply rooted appreciation for the
                    political ramifications of economic aspiration has been borne out by the events of the succeeding
                    decades.
            Willkie's timing made some of his mistakes understandable. As Barnes noted, Willkie grew up
                    "in expansive phases of American business history, in the Indiana gas boom, in Akron
                    rubber, in the electric power revolution, and the curse of bigness was never very much more than a
                    slogan to him." Increasing the scale of both production and marketing had worked for him,
                    so applying the same principles to the international (dis)order made a certain logical sense. In a
                    war oddly depoliticized in some respects—Hitler was frequently condemned as a bully or a
                    gangster, rarely as a fascist—Willkie made politics transparent, looking directly at the
                    people while focusing through the structures of power. As one columnist put it, Willkie, who was
                    impatient with "inconsequential details," worried only about
                    "consequential concepts." He concluded, "This is the mark of a man whose
                    thinking is rushing beyond that of his fellows. It is not good politics." It was the same
                    strategy that had won him the nomination, merely expanded.46
            
            Willkie's recognition of a global drive for freedom clearly evolved from his bold commitment
                    to American civil rights, a commitment probably not shared by many readers who did approve of
                    Russian go-getting and Chinese diligence. The "second class allies," fighting a
                    war dictated from 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        London
                    , shared with American blacks a marginalized status in Willkie's eyes.
                    "Would he accept political oblivion, if he had to, as the price for sticking to these
                    concepts?" asked Samuel Grafton in the 
                        New York
                    
                    Post. "I am certain, as of this moment, that he would." The
                    linkage of civil rights to universalist internationalism was not, however, completely persuasive;
                    Willkie himself never publicly condemned the Japanese-American internment, and most reviewers of One World focused on foreign possibilities rather than domestic shortcomings.
                    Neither the unfree masses of the colonies nor domestic minorities was a powerful constituency in the
                    political realm Willkie thought was the "sport of kings." Willkie's close
                    identification with big business—he had come close to defending profiteering by defense
                    contractors early in the war—made his alliance with any other liberal elements unlikely.
                    But his personal, if largely unshared, commitment to freedom as a fundamental concept endured from
                    the early days of his political career.47
            
            
               
                  46 Barnes, Willkie, 215; "
                            Washington
                         Wire" column in One World scrapbook, 
                            Van
                         Doren Papers.
               
                  47 Samuel Grafton, 
                            New York
                         Post, October 16, 1943, quoted in Neal, Dark Horse, 283; Barnes,
                            Willkie, 214.
            
            
            In 1939, just as he was beginning to broaden his intellectual scope under 
                        Van
                     Doren's influence, Willkie wrote a statement of his personal creed. Arguing
                    that liberalism was being appropriated by highly illiberal forces, he denied that liberals could
                    share a "universal" program and instead asked what "common
                    denominator" held together "those of Liberal faith." The answer, he
                    found, "seems to lie in the common purpose of liberals to make men free.
                    For it is not the primary purpose of the liberal to make men secure or rich or
                    powerful—but only to prevent such limitations upon freedom as insecurity, poverty and
                    weakness may impose." How the practical prevention of such limitations could be
                    accomplished was left unanswered. Even this seemingly laissez-faire version of freedom, however,
                    could not dissuade later doubters. A letter to Willkie in the wake of One World
                    asked pertinent questions about liberty, human nature, and politics: 
                        This old saying about love thy neighbor as thyself is just plain Bull and never was practised
                            and never will be.
                        You would have to kill 90% of the Southern people if you tried to bring about equality of
                            people in the South.
                        You and Roosevelt is all wet about all these big things you are going to do for people all
                            over the world.
                        Who is going to look after the people in Outer 
                                Mongolia
                            , I think all they want is a dam good leeving alone.48
                  
                    
            
            Obviously "making men free" and "a dam good leeving alone"
                    represent two conflicting understandings of political equality. Willkie clearly endorsed an
                    interventionist libertarianism more appropriate to domestic matters than foreign relations. While he
                    was at times mistaken, confused, superficial, and self-righteous, the sales of One
                        World suggest that Willkie was not alone in his hopes for an internationalist brotherhood,
                    although the perceived evils of the Soviet state soon transformed public opinion: spheres of
                    interest acceptable for Americans were denied the Russians who no longer 
                  
                     48 "A ‘Conservative’ Business Man
                            Reflects Upon Liberalism," November 13, 1939, typescript, 
                                Van
                             Doren Papers; Charles E. Collins to Willkie, July 28, 1943, Willkie Papers. The
                            American Institute of Public Opinion polled Americans after the release of One
                                World. In what they called a "quite remarkable" finding, 42
                            percent (25,000,000 at the time) of citizens nationwide knew Willkie as the author of the
                            book. When pressed for their approval or disapproval of Willkie, the respondents answered
                            this way: 
                        
                           
                           
                                        Approve
                                    
                           
                                        Disapprove
                                    
                           
                                        No opinion
                                    
                        
                        
                           Read book
                           76%
                           19%
                           5%
                        
                        
                           Did not read book
                           52%
                           33%
                           15%
                        
                      The very existence of such a poll suggests that Willkie viewed One
                                World as some sort of trial balloon as he contemplated his options for 1944. Letter
                            from American Institute of Public Opinion, June, 1943, 
                                Van
                             Doren Papers.
               
                     were the allies and comrades Willkie praised. Universalist
                    internationalism quickly gave way to internationalism on American terms, a view equally flawed. But
                    premature attention to that transition clouds the moment in the sun that One World
                    enjoyed. At the same time that it suggests other protocampaign documents such as John F.
                    Kennedy's Profiles in Courage or Ronald Reagan's General
                    Electric commercials, the book captures the complexities and hopes of a distinct historical moment,
                    one when the electromagnetic technologies of television and atomic energy had not yet contributed to
                    a reorientation of American politics.
         
         
         
            "absent So long from those I love": The Civil War Letters of Joshua Jones
            
                    Edited by Eugene H. Berwanger*
               
                
            Joshua Jones served in the 19th Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment from his enlistment on July 29,
                    1861, until his death on September 30, 1862.1 His regiment was part of the Iron
                    Brigade, one of the most outstanding military units in the Civil War. The brigade consisted of the
                    2nd, 6th, and 7th 
                        Wisconsin
                     regiments; the 24th 
                        Michigan
                    ; and the Indiana 19th. Until 1863 it was the only unit on the eastern front to be
                    composed solely of troops from the Old Northwest. Created as part of a military reorganization on
                    the eastern front in October, 1861, the brigade remained undistinguished until the Battle of South
                    Mountain (September 14, 1862) when General Joseph Hooker used the word "iron" to
                    describe its valor.2 The Iron Brigade continued to serve with distinction
                    through the Battle of 
                        Gettysburg
                    , in which it lost two-thirds of its men. In the following months the brigade was
                    strengthened with units from the eastern states. Losing its character as a western division, the
                    Iron Brigade continued, but as Mark M. Boatner explains, "it never recovered its former
                        punch."3
            
            Much of what is known about enlisted men in the Iron Brigade comes from 
                        Wisconsin
                     and 
                        Michigan
                     sources. In his definitive study of the brigade, Alan T. Nolan relied heavily on
                    manuscript sources from those two states. He lists only three manuscript collections for Indiana,
                    and among them, only one, a diary, was kept by an enlisted man.4 Joshua
                    Jones's letters home during his brief military career are a valuable addition to what is
                    known about the life of the common soldier in the Iron Brigade, especially those who served in the
                    19th Indiana.
            
               
                  * Eugene H. Berwanger is professor of history, 
                            Colorado
                         State University, Fort Collins, 
                            Colorado
                        .
               
                  1 [William H. H. Terrell], Report of the Adjutant General of
                            the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1866–1869), IV, 398.
               
                  2 Alan T. Nolan, The Iron Brigade: A Military History (
                            Ann Arbor
                        , Mich., 1961), 3–28, 130.
               
                  3 Mark M. Boatner III, The Civil War Dictionary (
                            New York
                        , 1959), 428.
               
                  4 See Nolan, Iron Brigade, especially 386.
               INDIANA MAGAZINE OF HISTORY, LXXXVIII (September, 1992). " 1992, Trustees of Indiana
                        University.
            
            
            Aside from his letters, and his service and pension records, little is known about Jones. He was born
                    in 1838 and may have lived his childhood and adolescence as a farm lad near 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana. On March 20, 1859, at the age of twenty-one, he married Celia Gibson, whom he
                    had known for ten years. Their only child, George (Eddy) Edgerlie Jones, was born on June 3,
                        1860.5 What impelled Jones to leave his young wife and child for military
                    service is unknown. He may well have been swept up in the wave of patriotism that spread throughout
                    the North following the Confederate attack on Fort Sumter in April, 1861. Urged on by
                    Indiana's Governor Oliver P. Morton, volunteers from throughout the Hoosier state responded
                    favorably to President Abraham Lincoln's call for troops. Large numbers of them congregated
                    at the state fairgrounds in 
                        Indianapolis
                     to be organized into regiments and assigned to duty. In July, 1861, young men, most
                    from central Indiana towns such as 
                        Muncie
                    , Winchester, 
                  Franklin, Spencer
               , and 
                        Indianapolis
                    , were mustered for a three-year tour of duty into the 19th Indiana Volunteer Regiment
                    under the command of Solomon Meredith. A Republican and friend of Lincoln, Meredith had strong
                    antislavery leanings,6 but if he influenced his men's thinking about
                    abolitionism, it is not evident in Jones's letters. Jones never mentions slavery or any
                    contact with blacks, although it seems likely he would have encountered slaves or free blacks in the 
                        Washington
                    , D. C./
                        Virginia
                     area.
            The letters clearly indicate the hardships of war. Jones was committed to the Union cause and hoped
                    for an early Union victory. As the fighting became more intense and camp life less stationary,
                    however, some pessimism began to creep in. Guard duty, unappealing food, and marching in cold, wet
                    weather lessened his zeal for military life. By 1862 Jones was mentioning the possibility of death
                    more frequently, all the while hoping for a leave of absence that would give him temporary relief
                    from soldiering and a chance to see Celia and George again.
            The letters also indicate that Jones was more contemplative than the average enlisted man. Bell I.
                    Wiley, in his study of the Union soldier, reports that most enlisted men spent their free time
                    gambling, drinking, or seeking other pleasures and that they frequently went into debt to engage in
                    such entertainments.7 Perhaps because of his religious beliefs (although he does
                    not dwell on the 
                  
                     5 Joshua Jones files in "Service Records of Volunteer
                            Soldiers who served in Organizations of the State of Indiana," Record Group 94
                            (National Archives, 
                                Washington
                            , D. C.); and "Pension Records of Volunteer Soldiers who served in
                            Organizations of the State of Indiana," ibid.
                  
                  
                     6 Roy P. Easier, The Collected Works of Abraham
                            Lincoln (9 vols., 
                                New Brunswick
                            , N. J., 1953–1955), IV, 196. See also Nolan, Iron
                                Brigade, 20–21.
                  
                     7 Bell I. Wiley, The Life of Billy Yank: The Common
                                Soldier of the Union (
                                Garden City
                            , N. Y., 1971), 247–75.
               
                     topic) or because he saw the war as a means of profiting
                    personally, Jones did not partake in such activities. Indeed, he seemed to have taken advantage of
                    those who did. He loaned money at interest and sent his earnings home; he also sold personal items
                    that others might want and appeared especially pleased when he made a profit. That this was a
                    conscious effort on his part is demonstrated in his statement to Celia that "Some is Smart
                    and Some aint…."
            Jones's correspondence indicates that he had some formal schooling or at least private
                    instruction. Although his letters, compared to those written by his company commander and his
                    surgeon, have deficiencies in grammar, punctuation, and spelling, they are superior to
                    many—perhaps most—of those of his contemporaries.
            Jones's letters, for the most part, were written to his wife, Celia. Following his death she
                    continued to live in the 
                        Muncie
                     area until the Great Depression of the 1930s. She married again, at sixty-five years of
                    age, to John L. Driscoll in 1903, and became a widow for the second time in 1929. Her last years
                    were spent in the home of her son and daughter-in-law, George and Mary Jones of 
                        Muncie
                    . During her widowhood and second marriage she saved Jones's Civil War letters
                    and passed them on to her son and grandchildren.8
            
            
               
                  8 The Joshua Jones letters are presently the property of Ralph Becker of
                        Fort Collins, 
                            Colorado
                        . Mr. Becker's wife is the great-granddaughter of Joshua Jones.
                        "Declaration for a Remarried Widow's Pension, February 11, 1929," in
                        Jones file, "Pension Records of Volunteer Soldiers who served in Organizations of the
                        State of Indiana."
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp Morton 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 
                                 1
                              
                           
                                    Aug the 1th 1861
                                
                        Dear Wife & little Boy & friends
                        I take my pen in hand to let you know that I am well hoping this will find you all
                                    the Same.
                        Well Celia we got our uniform yesterday & we are going to get our guns
                                    tomorrow & we leave here a Saturday [illegible word] for 
                                        Washington
                                     City I will Send my Clothes to the Depo in Care of Garret Gibson2 if I can get my likness I will Send it too. I Cannot Come home
                                    any more untill the war is over if I live I will be at home when the war is over
                                    & if it falls to my lot to fall in Battle it will be in defence of my
                                    Country tell all that take themSelves to be my friends that I bid them farewell for
                                    my life is not Insured I dont know that I Shall ever have the pleasure of meeting
                                    you all any more or not but if I dont you must all take Care of your Selvs while I
                                    am exposed to the Enemy who are trying to distroy our government I look for nothing
                                    but hardships Exposed to bad weather poor grub & long marches &
                                    dodging bulets and Sords & bayonets we may Come through 
                                        Muncie
                                     but I dont know whether we will or not
                        I will write when we get in Camp I guess I have wrote all for the time So farewell
                                    friends and Relations yours till Death
                        
                                    Joshua Jones
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  1 Given the conditions under which they were written, Joshua
                        Jones's letters are amazingly legible and easily read. As was true of many of his
                        contemporaries, however, Jones infrequently used any marks of punctuation, including periods at
                        the end of sentences, and frequently failed to capitalize the first word of a sentence. In
                        addition, he used capital letters for many words, particularly those beginning with s, c, and y,
                        that are not generally capitalized. To make for easier reading double spaces have been used to
                        indicate sentence breaks in this transcription. Although every effort was made to determine
                        Jones's intent, arbitrary decisions concerning capitalization and paragraphing were
                        sometimes unavoidable. Location of headings, greetings, and closings has been standardized to
                        correspond to modern usage. Words, dates, and abbreviations that were inserted above the line
                        have been brought down to the line. Words that were preprinted on Jones's very
                        distinctive stationery have been transcribed in bold-faced type. Jones often drew hearts or
                        flourishes at the end of his letters, frequently including the name of the person to whom the
                        letter was written as well as his own. His and his wife's names were often connected in
                        some way. These flourishes have been omitted. Words or phrases inserted in the margins have been
                        placed at the end of the relevant letter after Jones's signature. Explanatory words or
                        phrases have been placed in brackets; words that are unclear but for which an attempted
                        transcription has been made have been followed by a question mark and enclosed in brackets;
                        illegible words have been so designated in brackets.
               
                  2 In all probability Garrett Gibson, an early pioneer in 
                            Delaware
                         County, was Jones's father-in-law.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City Camp Calarama3
                              
                           
                                    Aug the 19th 1861
                                
                        Mr. J. W. Abrell4
                        
                        Sir I take my pen in hand to Write you a few lines to let you know that I am well at
                                    present hoping these few lines may find you all in good health We are Encamped on
                                    the North Side of the Potomac River on mount Calarama in view of 
                                        Washington
                                     City and Elexandria we Can See the Ships on the Hudson bay5 we can hear the Secession Cannons evry morning very plain This
                                    is a wet morning it has Rained evry day but three Since we have been hear I Seen the
                                    Battle ground of Arlington hights6 the timber is all Cut to
                                    Smash with Bullets it is all pine and Cedar and loral on the mountains in the valeys
                                    it is porsimmon and Tamberac and Spruce Trees I want you to write and tell me
                                    whether George and Wm Ross has gone yet or not I would like to See George in Ranks
                                    here Runing up and down the mountanes I Rather think it makes aman look up for the
                                    ground to be out all night on a Scout and come in in the morning and Eat a little
                                    dry bread and cold meat then Rap up in a wet blanket and lay down on the Side of the
                                    hill with your feet against a rock to keep you from Sliding down the mountain and a
                                    Rock for a pillow if you want one the other night when we was a Sleep in our tents
                                    the Alarm was raised that the Rebells was coming it was just like a lot of Scard
                                    hogs Runing over one another and falling down Some got Stuck with Bayonetts while
                                    others got bumped with guns on the heads.
                        there is Sevral boys here that would just as Soon be at home. We will [be] Called in
                                    to Action in 2 or 3 weeks then the fun comences 
                              
                                 3 Camp Kalorama was a temporary facility on Kalorama
                                            Heights, where a government hospital for communicable diseases was located.
                                            Today the Kalorama Heights triangle is bordered by 
                                                Massachusetts
                                             and 
                                                Connecticut
                                             avenues and the Rock Creek and Potomac Parkway; it is bisected
                                            by Kalorama Road. Margaret Leech, Reveille in 
                                                    Washington
                                                , 1860–1865 (
                                                New York
                                            , 1941), 205.
                              
                                 4 According to Ralph Becker, whose wife is a
                                            great-granddaughter of Joshua Jones, John W. Abrell was Jones's
                                            brother-in-law. At the close of this letter Jones—as was his
                                            wont—wrote the names of those to whom the letter was sent, J. W.
                                            Abrell and Rebecca Abrell, presumably John's wife.
                              
                                 5 The reference here is unclear. Jones may have meant
                                            that portion of the Potomac River just to the east of present-day Theodore
                                            Roosevelt Island. It is wide enough to allow ocean going vessels access to
                                            the city, and Jones would have been able to see it from his location on
                                            Kalorama Heights.
                              
                                 6 Undoubtedly Jones means Arlington Mills, where a
                                            clash took place between Union and Confederate forces on June 1, 1861.
                                            Arlington Mills is located between Arlington and 
                                    Alexandria, Virginia
                                 . E. B. Long, The Civil
                                                War Day by Day: An Almanac, 1861–1865 (
                                                New York
                                            , 1971), 81.
                           
                                     I have wrote all that I can this time you must
                                    write just as Soon as you get this and tell me all the good news So No more at
                                    present Yours with Respect
                        
                                    Joshua Jones
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City Fort Smith7
                              
                           
                                    Sept the 12th 1861
                                
                        Dear Companion
                        I am well this morning and hope this will find you the Same I Received your letter
                                    and was glad to hear from you, but you did not write all that I wanted to know well
                                    now I Can tell what many others Cannot night before last while I was on gard our
                                    pickets was attacted I was on the Reserve we was rallied and the Bullets fell like
                                    hale around us
                        yesterday about 3 oclock we marched 4 miles towards Farfax Courthouse there we was
                                    fired on by the Rebells the [brim?] Shells flew and the Cannon Balls whistled and
                                    the dirt flew all around us they are just now barying one of our Regiment the report
                                    Sais that the Rebells lost one hundred and our Side Six and 7 wounded I did not get
                                    a Shot we was in the Rear of the brigade8 next Sunday we are
                                    going to have another trial at them I seen what I never seen before if I live
                                    through the next Battle I think I am all right now Celia go to Patrick Carnickles9 I Sent twenty dollars there for you keep this till I Come home
                                    I think we will be all rite when I get back the hardest time I ever Saw has ben in
                                    the last too days I cannot tell you half but keep your Spirits up 
                              
                                 7 There was no Fort Smith in the 
                                                Washington
                                            , D. C., area; however, the reference in this letter to the
                                            fighting around Lewinsville implies that "Fort Smith" may
                                            have been a bivouac located on the Smith farm, about two miles east of
                                            Lewinsville. Jones refers throughout his letters to
                                            "camps" that were probably only temporary bivouacs. He and
                                            comrades undoubtedly named these areas, but they never had any formal
                                            designation as camps. For locations see George B. Davis, Leslie J. Perry,
                                            and Joseph W. Kirkley, The Official Military Atlas of the Civil
                                                War (
                                                Washington
                                            , D. C., 1891–1895), plate VII.
                              
                                 8 The 19th Indiana was transferred into 
                                                Virginia
                                            , just across the Chain Bridge from 
                                                Washington
                                            , D. C., on September 3. There the men began constructing Fort
                                            Marcy, an earthworks guarding the approaches to the bridge. The first attack
                                            mentioned by Jones refers to a skirmish that occurred near Lewinsville, 
                                                Virginia
                                            , on September 10, 1861. Lewinsville was four miles from the
                                            bridge. As Jones indicates, the 19th was also engaged on September 11 near
                                            Fairfax Courthouse, 
                                                Virginia
                                            , where several Civil War skirmishes occurred. Nolan, Iron Brigade, 12, 22–23. Jones's
                                            estimates of casualties at Lewinsville and in subsequent battles are, of
                                            course, often erroneous. For more exact figures see relevant reports in U.
                                            S. War Department, War of the Rebellion: A Compilation of the
                                                Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies (128 vols., 
                                                Washington
                                            , D. C., 1880–1901). These volumes are hereafter
                                            referred to as Official Records.
                              
                              
                                 9 Jones probably refers to Patrick Carmichael since
                                            there was a family of that name in the 
                                                Muncie
                                             area.
                           
                                     I am bound to raise or fall nothing Bothers me
                                    but my little family that I left be hind
                        
                                    write Soon Farewell
                                    Joshua Jones
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              E Street Hospital 
                                    Washington
                                  City D C
                           
                                    October the 5th 1861
                                
                        Dear Companion
                        I will have to Say to you that I am not well10 the Second day
                                    (Sept 14th) after I wrote your last letter (Sept 12th) I was taken Sick I was taken
                                    with a Chill and fever and it Run in to the Tifoid fever I never was So Sick in my
                                    life but I am geting better I can Set up in bed and write a little at a time I am
                                    very weak and poor it has Cut me down very fast I laid in my tent a little too long
                                    I got Cold on my lungs I have a bad Cough
                        I am well taken Care of here I am in a good ward and have a good attendent ward No 27
                                    You must not let my being Sick discourage you for I think I will get along now if I
                                    dont get a backset my Side hurts me more now than it ever did before I would like to
                                    hear from home mighty well I have not had a letter for a long time but there may be
                                    Some letters at the Camp for me
                        I Suppose you got that money that I Sent to you keep that money it is better than
                                    gold it is worth 3 cts on the dollar at 
                                        Indianapolis
                                     and in kansas and Nebrasca it is 7 cts on a dollar it will be payday
                                    again the 2nd day of November then I will Send about 25 dollars
                        I dont want you to forget me I want you to Remember where I am and what I Come here
                                    for
                        John and Rebecca [Abrell] I want you to Remember that I am not out of Reach of
                                    letters yet I guess the old man does not Care where I am or what becomes of me I
                                    have never got a word from him yet he appears to [be] very distant to me I dont know
                                    why it I dont think I ever done him any harm in my life that I know of
                        I would like to See you all being Sick makes me think of a great many things that I
                                    would not think of if I was well I am 
                              
                                 10 Jones was among the 40 percent of the 19th Indiana
                                            that became ill at this time. For a while Federal authorities feared that
                                            Confederates had poisoned wells in the area, but this rumor proved
                                            unfounded. More likely, the lack of sanitary conditions caused the outbreak
                                            of typhoid. Jones's illness must have been severe, for only the
                                            worst cases were taken to the hospital. Nolan, Iron
                                            Brigade, 20–22.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              Map by Graphic Arts Department, Audio-Visual Center, Indiana University, 
                                                Bloomington
                                            . Based on George B. Davis, Leslie J. Perry, and Joseph W.
                                            Kirkley, The Official Military Atlas of the Civil War (
                                                Washington
                                            , D. C., 1891–1895), plate VII.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              Map by Graphic Arts Department, Audio-Visual Center, Indiana University, 
                                                Bloomington
                                            .
                           
                                     geting very tired of Staying in bed so long I
                                    hope I can walk out in a few day in to the hall I must Stop writing I am So weak and
                                    tired you must all write to me
                        
                                    Joshua Jones
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Well Celia I cant write much this time11 I am too feeble to Sit
                                    up long at a time I do not know when I will get away from here but you may Direct
                                    your letters the [same] as before and I will Send for them if I Stay here long oh
                                    how I would like to See little George but it is no use to think about it Write often
                                    your husband till Death
                        
                                    Joshua Jones
                                
                        From a poor Soldier to his wife and little Boy good by
                     
                  
               
                
            Loved ones at home Ever of thee I am fondly dreaming12
            
            Thy gentle voice my Spirit can Cheer
            Thou wer the Star that mildly beaming
            Shone ore my path when all was dark and dreary
            Still in my heart thy form I cherish
            Every kind thought like a bird flies to thee
            Then never till life and memory perish
            Can I for get how dear thou art to me
            Morn noon and night where ear I may be
            Fondly I am dreaming of thee.
            Ever of thee when Sad and lonely
            Wandering afar my Soul joys to dwell
            And then I feel I love thee only
            All Seems to fade before affections Spell
            years have not chilled the love I cherish
            True as the Stars hath my heart been to thee
            Never till life and memory perish
            Can I for get how dear thou art to me
            I am ever fondly thinking of thee.
            
               
                  11 Jones may well have written this letter in brief stints since it
                        appears to be addressed first to Celia, then to John and Rebecca Abrell, and finally, after
                        Jones's first signature, again to Celia.
               
                  12 Following are the words of a song entitled "Ever of
                        Thee" by George Linley and Foley Hall. For words and music see Heart Songs
                            Dear to the American People…(
                            New York
                        , 1909)s 222–23.
            
            
            
               Courtesy Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    Oct 12th 1861
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Washington
                                  City
                              Headquarters Camp Fort Craig13
                              
                              Regt. 19th Co. E
                           
                                
                        Dear beloved
                        Wife I take my pen in hand to let you know that I am geting better Since this morning
                                    I got your letter I was So glad to hear from you I have got out of the hospital but
                                    I am very weak but I think I will get along now I hope this will find my dear in
                                    good health and little boy also well Celia you Said you got that money all Safe our
                                    Regiment moved while I was Sick we are on Arlington hights 1 mile from long Bridge a
                                    Cross the Patomac South of 
                                        Washington
                                     garding Fort Craig well Darling about them feathers I think if you Can
                                    get them for 30 cts a pound you had better buy 25 or 30 pounds if you can get new
                                    feathers what do you think I have to lay my oilcloth down and lay on that my bones
                                    are geting Calloused Celia I would give my intrest in this war to See you and our
                                    little boy I have often wanted to See you but never So bad as I do now I would not
                                    take a thousand dollars for your picture but I got it wet I laid out allnight in the
                                    rain the case is alittle Spoiled but the pretty girl is there yet that is all I care
                                    for we will have a Sweet time when I get home but when that will be I do not know
                                    there is some talk of us going to Hatras Inlet on the 
                                        North Carolina
                                     Coast a long ways from here.14
                        
                        Celia I Sent my boots with my clothes but not my hat I expect that kigers folks got
                                    them for Vols but I dont know whether they did or not I dont want to loose them Sam
                                    Pruitt paid me that too dollars be Sure to pay Haines for that wheat15 I dont know what 
                              
                                 13 Fort Craig was located approximately one mile south
                                            of Arlington. Davis, Perry, and Kirkley, Official Military
                                                Atlas of the Civil War, plate VII.
                              
                                 14 A military expedition under General Benjamin 
                                                Butler
                                             captured Cape Hatteras in August, 1861. On October 4
                                            Confederates attacked an Indiana regiment stationed near Chicamacomico, 
                                                North Carolina
                                            . Apparently Jones's comment was made in response to
                                            rumors about increasing troop strength in the Hatteras area. The 19th
                                            Indiana, however, remained near 
                                                Washington
                                            , D. C. See Long, The Civil War Day by Day,
                                            24.
                              
                                 15 Volentine, or Valentine, Kiger from 
                                                Delaware
                                             County served with Jones in Company E of the 19th Indiana.
                                            Later, in July, 1865, Kiger was transferred to the 24th Indiana Volunteer
                                            Regiment and was mustered out of service in October of that year. [William
                                            H. H. Terrell], Report of the Adjutant General of the State of
                                                Indiana (8 vols., 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1866–1869), IV, 398; Kingman Brothers, pubs., History of 
                                                    Delaware
                                                 County, Indiana…(
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1881), 95. An Isaiah S. Pruitt from 
                                                Delaware
                                             County—possibly the Sam Pruitt to whom Jones
                                            refers—also served in Company E of the 19th Indiana. Later, in
                                            1864, Pruitt was transferred to Company E of the 20th Indiana (Reorganized)
                                            and from there was apparently moved to the Veterans Reserve Corps before he
                                            was mustered out of service. Report of the Adjutant
                                            General, IV, 398, 438. David T. Haines was engaged in the wholesale and
                                            retail grocery business in 
                                                Muncie
                                             between 1848 and 1853. His later entrepreneurial ventures
                                            include railroad development and the grain business. G. W. H. Kemper, ed.,
                                                A Twentieth Century History of 
                                                    Delaware
                                                 County, Indiana (2 vols. in 1, 
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1908), II, 643.
                           
                                     else to write I have wrote evry week to you I
                                    love to write to them I love So Dearly
                        Nomore at present my Sweet little wife
                        Remember who loves you above all others
                        Your husband till Death
                        
                                    Joshua Jones
                                
                        Write to me Soon as you get this
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              State of 
                                    Virginia
                                 
                              
                              Fort Craig
                           
                                    Nov the 7th 1861
                                
                        Dearly beloved and ever Remembered Wife
                        I take the pleasure of writing to you to let you know that I am well at present
                        hoping this may find you in good health.
                        your kind letter of the 20th of Oct Come duly to hand you Spoke of your feelings when
                                    Seeing others Sporting around home Well my dear Celia Can you imagine the feelings
                                    of the one who loves you so dear when he thinks of a qyiet home and a tender loving
                                    wife and little Sweet boy often do I think of the hapy days when I Could Sit down to
                                    Breakfast with you and See the little boy Stick his head up in the Bead and laugh
                                    while we was eating and talking to each other as hapy as too kings my dear I can See
                                    now that we lived as pleasant a life as any too on earth, oh Shall it ever be my
                                    most hapy lot to meet my beloved wife and little boy once more; if it is the will of
                                    Almighty god that I Shall I will promise mySelf never to leave them again to be
                                    Compelled to Stay any length of time untill I am Stricken down by the hand of death.
                        but dear I have a narrow path to travail while this Rebellion lasts oh Could I take
                                    my Super with you this night and have a long talk with you it would be one of the
                                    greatest pleasures that ever I enjoyed oh may the time Speedily Come when Rebellion
                                    will [be] put down and peace Restored once more for I think that I Shall never
                                    Return untill the Stars and Stripes is floting over all the States in the union god
                                    forbid that any other flag Should ever wave.
                        I want our little boy to be learned to do as he is told and be manerly to evry body I
                                    do not want to See a bad little boy like Some Children when I Come home. Well Celia
                                    I am going to Send you thirty dollars for you to take Care of you will find it at
                                    the Bank in 
                                        Muncie
                                    
                        
                        You need not Send any Clothing to me.
                        I got a letter from Pery Ross yesterday here is a Ring in Rememberence of your
                                    husband you must Save all that you Can for I will 
                                    
                              Courtesy Ralph Becker.
                           
                                     be So glad to see that my dear is trying to
                                    help me I want to have the good of my hardships when I get home.
                        give my love and best Respects to the old folks and Susan also write Soon and a good
                                    long letter
                        nomore at present but Remaines your husband till Death
                        
                                    Joshua Jones
                                    Sweet Wife good By
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Arlington Hights
                           
                                    November the 12th 1861
                                
                        Dearest little Wife
                        I Received your letter or Johns Rather last night I had just wrote a letter to you a
                                    day or too a go
                        I have just Come off gard I had a hard night of it I Stood at the magazine 4 hours
                                    and upon the parapet 4 hours to gard the Canons the magazine is what the Canon balls
                                    and Cartriages is kept in it Rained Some and the wind blew pretty Cool it was dark
                                    and I Could hardly See to keep on the parapet wall it is only 6 feet wide Well my
                                    Sweet little wife you wanted to know if I had [nocked?] any more apples Since I was
                                    at paps or not I have not it takes money to nock them here a good apple Sells for 5
                                    cts here and you know that I am too Stingy to pay that my little Sweet I thought
                                    that I Seen more pleasure that time with you than ever I Seen in all my life without
                                    you
                        I often think of the Sweet times we have had togather I do beleave that we love each
                                    other the best of any too in the world. You Said you got that Ring I Sent you well I
                                    am going to Send another well it is in the other letter of the 7th of November you
                                    Said you had Sold the [dog?] that was Right
                        tell me if you have paid David Haines you will find thirty dollars at the Bank for
                                    you I drawed 26 and mad Some making Rings and Some washing Close for the boys I dont
                                    Spend much I want to have a big pile when I get home write good long litters when
                                    you write take that paper to the Bank and get gold for it keep in good heart and
                                    Save all that you Can and it will be all Right when I get home I am well and in good
                                    Spirits. I look a head to a better day I have not much to write this time. I feel
                                    Sleepy and bad to day I will write more the next time No More at Present I Ever
                                    Remain your Husband Till Death.
                        
                                    Joshua Jones
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Arling[ton] Hights
                              Fort Craig Via
                           
                                    Nov. the 24th 1861
                                
                        Dear and loving little wife
                        I Can inform you that I am Enjoying a Reasonable portion of health and it is my
                                    greatest wishes that this will find my loving wife and Sweet little boy in the Same
                                    State of health. I Received your loving letter and was glad to hear from you when I
                                    Seen your hair and little Georges I Could not help Sheding tears I never had Such
                                    feelings in my life it was almost like meeting with my lover. The hapiest day of my
                                    life is to come that will be when I Can take my loving wife by the hand and lay my
                                    arms around her and kiss her sweet lips That is the Day I am longing to See you know
                                    how well I used to like to have holt of your little hand I can almost feel it now
                                    you know I like to feel it too my Celia and the good times we used to have and that
                                    we will have when we See each other again is all my [Studies?] but that day is not
                                    known when we will meet but here is a consolation the longer I have to Stay the more
                                    money aint that So Celia can you dout that I love you when I have Risked my life in
                                    this Rebellion and put up with all of the hardships of Soldiering just to make a
                                    Raise for the Comfort of my little family you know that it must be horrible to my
                                    mind to have to be absent So long from those I love So well besides the exposure and
                                    hardships I have to bear with who is doing mor for their family or Country than your
                                    little boy
                        The grandest Review that ever was known your boy was at it was helt between Munsons
                                    hill and Baleys Crossroads on the 20th of Nov 1861 Seventy thousand troops 104 Canon
                                    17 batteries you will See the account of it in the papers it was a grand Site.16
                        
                        well Celia if you put the money in the Bank it will draw 6 per cent interest although
                                    I am willing for you to keep it but evry dollar is one when a man gets it by the
                                    hardest put it in the Bank if you want to.
                        tell me if you got them feathers I will have to Stop it is time for dressparad here
                                    is my heart and Some of my hair.
                        
                           
                              16 William Howard Russell, special correspondent of the 
                                            London
                                        
                                        Times, described the review as follows: "Today a
                                        grand review, the most remarkable feature of which was the able disposition made
                                        by General McDowell to march seventy infantry regiments, seventeen batteries,
                                        and seven cavalry regiments into a very contracted space, from the adjoining
                                        camps…. Among the 55,000 men present there were at least 20,000
                                        Germans, and 12,000 Irish." William Howard Russell, My
                                            Diary North and South, ed. Eugene H. Berwanger (
                                            Philadelphia
                                        , 1988), 327–28. Bailey's Crossroads was located
                                        about three miles south of Fort Craig.
                        
                        
                        give my best Respects to your father and Mother tell them I want them to write often
                        No more at present I ever Remain your husband till Death
                        
                                    Joshua Jones
                                    Write Soon
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Arlington Hights
                              Fort Craig Via.
                           
                                    Dec. the 18th 1861
                                
                        Dear Parents
                        I again Embrace the present oportunity of addressing you. the truth Compelles me to
                                    Confess that I am not atall well, but this goes hoping to find you all Enjoying good
                                    health and a pleasant life we have just got in from picket gard where we was very
                                    much exposed to danger and the Inclemency of the weather both night and day for five
                                    days we was on the out posts within one and a quarter [miles] of the Rebell pickets
                                    I was not well when I Started and I am Still no better the picket line is about ten
                                    miles west of here and we left Camp at eleven oclock and marched out there with our
                                    knapsacks on with a heavy lode in them and haversacks full of mule meat and dry hard
                                    bread and a canteen full of water and our Cartriage boxes on with 40 Rounds of
                                    Cartriges in them which Contains a long ball weighing one ounce and an ounce of
                                    powder
                        we got there about sundown very tired and warm and I was put on a post with two other
                                    men where the Rebells generally passed they killed one of the 
                                        Wisconsin
                                     boys there three days before that, there we Sit in the cold all night
                                    with gun in hand watching for them and listening for them to fire at us but I did
                                    not see a Rebell or hear a gun fire but the boys down along the line on the Right
                                    wing Said they heard a Shot or too but Some of them if they hear a brush crack it
                                    sounds like thunder to them, the next day our Company Crossed the line and went
                                    forageing we went in to an orcherd and got Corn where the union troops never went in
                                    and all got out alive we got too loads of Corn foder and all there was too Rebell
                                    Cavalrymen passed in Site of us but they went off double quick, this trip is the
                                    cause of my having a bad cold hard Cough and Sore lungs which is very unpleasant. I
                                    Received aletter from Celia to day Stating that you was all well which I am always
                                    glad to hear this is a hard life to live but I can bear it all if I can here of you
                                    all being well but if I Should hear of Celia or the little boy being Sick or if She
                                    was dissatisfied any way or misused and I have to Stay here and could not come to
                                    take care of her I would have the most miserable life to live of any human on earth
                                    because I  hope the day is coming when I can
                                    have a little quiet home with her once more and Enjoy the peace and pleasure around
                                    our own peaceable fire Side I want you all to write to me for it is cheering to Read
                                    a letter from you and the pleasure that a Soldier Enjoys otherwise are few and far
                                    between.
                        I will close for the present by asking you to answer Soon I ever Remain yours untill
                                    Death
                        
                                    Joshua Jones
                                
                        let Celia Read this letter
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              19th Regt. Co. E
                              Camp Craig
                           
                                    Jan 8 1862
                                
                        Dear Celia
                        I take my pen in hand to write you a few lines to let you know that I am well, and
                                    hope these few lines may find my dear Wife and little boy in the very best of
                                    health. Well Celia as there is not any thing of Importance going on in Camp I will
                                    have nothing new to tell you you wanted me to Send you a present well I dont know
                                    what to Send but when I go to the City I will try to get you Something I am going to
                                    Send my little George a picture of Col. Ellsworth who was killed at Elexandria while
                                    taking down a Re-bell flag17 if you Cant read this writing I
                                    will get Some body to write for me but however. Celia I will not Send any money home
                                    this time but look out next payday for Sixty dollars I bought a watch for twelve
                                    dollars and a half and Sold it to Isaac Branson for Eighteen and a half next
                                        payday18 Some is Smart and Some aint Smart
                        well Celia I will tell you what I have been thinking a bout I think if pork is only
                                    worth $2.50 cts per hundred you had better buy about two hundred pounds
                                    and Salt it down it will be a good thing for us for pork will be high next Summer
                                    but do as you think best I would like to know what has become of my Corn you may
                                    Sell my watch if you can get ten dollars for it and if you Cant you may Send it to
                                    me and I will Sell it and Send you the Cash I heard that Vol Kiger was maried I
                                    guess you will get 
                              
                                 17 The incident occurred on May 24, 1861. James T.
                                            Jackson, proprietor of the Marshal House in 
                                                Alexandria
                                            , shot Colonel Ephraim E. Ellsworth as he attempted to take down
                                            a Confederate flag that Jackson insisted on flying from the roof of his
                                            hotel. See Russell, My Diary North and South,
                                            163–64, for a full account.
                              
                                 18 Isaac Branson from 
                                                Delaware
                                             County served as sergeant of Company E, 19th Indiana from 1861
                                            until April, 1863, when he was commissioned as second lieutenant; still
                                            later, in January, 1864, he became first lieutenant of the company. Report of the Adjutant General, II, 172, IV, 398.
                           
                                     that money of him yet you Said you had bad luck
                                    So had I = I got your likeness Case Spoiled So we are even aint we duck.
                        I will Close my letter by Remaining your admirer and husband till Death
                        
                                    Joshua Jones
                                    Write Soon good by
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Arlington
                              Fort Craig 
                                    Virginia
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Feb the 6th 1862
                                
                        Ever dear and beloved Celia
                        your letter Come to hand last night and found me well and glad to hear from you but
                                    Sorrow to hear that Eddy was not well but I hope when this Comes to hand it will
                                    find my little Sweets both in good health, you Said that Mat had been Saying
                                    Something about our money well Celia you know that I would Rather that you would
                                    have our money than any body else for it belongs to you and me and we are just the
                                    Same as one you done just Right with the money and So we are Satisfied it is no body
                                    elses bisness I told you to do as you pleased with the money just a purpos to See
                                    what kind of a wife I had to contrive and I find out that I have got just as good
                                    Industrious and prudend a women as any man and it makes me love you dearly to think
                                    that you are doing all that you can to make us comfortable after I get home as many
                                    of a women would have Spent evry cent of that money while her husband was Risking
                                    his life for it besides the hardships he had to under go.
                        I can Say that I have Sent as much money home as any other man in this Company there
                                    is men here that has got wives at home that is needy and they are Spending their
                                    money for whiskey and geting drunk and buying all other foolery that does not profit
                                    them one cent. I dont buy any thing but paper or Something to Send to you not even
                                    an apple or pies or Cakes for they Sell them awful high.
                        I have Sold my watch for 15 dollars and the fiddle for 5 if they come. I can Send 75
                                    or 80 dollars next time I am going to make all I can.
                        well darling about you going to See Martha I have nothing to Say you can do as you
                                    please with your own money about them pies and Cakes and other thing I think they
                                    would be So good it has been So long that I have had to live on hard dry bread and
                                    it light bread too or hard Crackers and a little fat rotten cold pork Sevral of the
                                    boys have got boxes of provision Sent to them one woman come and brought her man
                                    Some provisions I can get any thing that you are a mind to Send but dear I havent
                                    got but a little 
                                    
                              Courtesy Ralph Becker.
                           
                                     money not any more than will pay the express on
                                    the fiddle and watch I loaned it all out but you can pay the express there and get a
                                    Receipt for the box if you want to but I hate to ask you to Send it and pay the
                                    expence [for shipping it] both for it is too much you can use your pleasure about
                                    Sending it I Sent a numberell [an umbrella] to Haineses Store by a man that was here
                                    after a Soldier that died is [it] was Directed to Garrett Gibson I want you to get
                                    it and keep it here is your miniture but you must be Sure to Send Eddys and yours
                                    back and take good care of this one you Spoke about me having to lay on my oilcloth
                                    you cant help that and if them that talks about it dont like it let them lump it. I
                                    think I will be at home in the Sumer or fall you need not be uneasy for I love you
                                    and I know you are pretty and virtuous too and I dont want a better woman than my
                                    little Celia. I have not got the watch yet you Said that picture looked natural I
                                    thought it was a poor picture I will have another one taken if I have a chance and
                                    send it to you / look on the other Sheet I will Close my letter on this I am out of
                                        paper19 here is a kiss for aint it Sweet it ought to be I
                                    have Saved it long anough I dont know what to tell you only that you are pretty and
                                    Sweet and a good loving kind little wife and would like to See you and hug and kiss
                                    on them Sweet lips kiss Eddy for me and tell him to be a good little boy till pap
                                    comes home again
                        No more this time
                        
                                    your Ever loving husband
                                    Write Soon,
                                    Joshua Jones
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Camp near Elexandria 
                                    Va
                                 
                              
                           
                                    April the 2nd 1862
                                
                        Dear and Ever Remembered Wife
                        I take my pen in hand this morning to answer your kind letter which I Received
                                    lastnight and to let you know that I am well and hope these few lines may find my
                                    Celia and little Eddy in the Same State of health.
                        Well Celia we are not gone yet but we are looking to go evry day there is So many
                                    troops to Ship that it takes a good while to all get on the Steamers but it will not
                                    be long till we will get on for our division goes on board next we are just laying
                                    here in the 
                              
                                 19 If Jones did indeed include another sheet with this
                                            letter, it is no longer extant.
                           
                                     laurel brush Ready to go any time20 Well Dear we got our pay a day or too a go and I Sent 55 dollars to the
                                    Bank on deposit Cap Wilson Said he would make them give me 6 per cent Intrust So I
                                    Sent it there in Stead of Sending it to Pary21 I did not get all
                                    that was coming to me or I could Sent more I will Send 50 dollars next time I got
                                    them postage Stamps and was glad to get them but I did not get the picturs I do wish
                                    you would Send them I will Send mine and then I do want yours I got the watch and
                                    fiddle I got 5 dollars for the fidle and twelve for the watch next pay day I Save
                                    all of the money that I get to Send home to keep my pretty Sweet wife and little boy
                                    and my Self when I get home keep in good Spirits Dear for they cant kill me I am
                                    coming home if any bod[y] does then we will have a good time the balance of our
                                    lives I think your father and John [mite?] write to [me] oftener if they thought any
                                    thing of me but it is all Right I will Remember them while I am fighting to Save
                                    their as well as my own Country I will Close for this time by asking you to answer
                                    Soon and Send them pictures write good long letters and tell all of the news that
                                    you can think of. your Ever loving husband
                        
                                    Joshua Jones
                                
                        when this you see Remember me though many miles a part we be
                                    good by Celia here is the picture of your ugly husband who is in the army
                                    this is a Laurel leaf
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Via Camp Near Fredricksburg
                           
                                    April 28th 1862
                                
                        Well my Dear Celia
                        I will write you a few lines to let you know that I am geting along as well as could
                                    be expected although I am not very well but it is my hearts Desire that this may
                                    find you well and Enjoying 
                              
                                 20 Jones's unit was prepared to embark for
                                            the Peninsular Campaign, which took place between April and July, 1862. The
                                            19th Indiana, however, was part of Irvin McDowell's division, a
                                            division that Lincoln insisted on keeping in northern 
                                                Virginia
                                             to protect 
                                                Washington
                                            , D. C., from Confederate attack. Instead of going to the
                                            peninsula the 19th was moved toward the Rappahannock River and
                                                    
                                    Fredericksburg,
                                                    Virginia
                                 . Nolan,
                                                Iron Brigade, 47–52.
                              
                                 21 Luther B. Wilson of 
                                                Muncie
                                             was captain of Company E, 19th Regiment from its organization
                                            in 1861 until he was mustered out of service in April, 1863. Report of the Adjutant General, II, 172.
                           
                                     life pleasant I can get along if I can hear of
                                    you and the little boy being well, for you are the main dependence for pleasure and
                                    Satisfaction the longer I Stay a way the more I think of you and the better I love
                                    you I am geting tired of this way of living it is So hard and disagreeable I am not
                                    well half of my time any more it Raines So much and we have to lay on the cold and
                                    wet ground and nothing that I like to eat we was 5 days with 2 days Rations and 4 of
                                    them days we was marching hard Crackers and old tuff beef and no Salt and we had to
                                    Roast it on the fire I got a letter from Pary last night he Said Some of the friends
                                    did not like it because I talked of Sending my money to him I want you to tell me
                                    who it is if you know I think it would be Safer in their house because it is not So
                                    apt to get burnt up you may give that Certificate to Pary then if any thing Should
                                    hapen you will not be to blame it is not because I think that you cant take care of
                                    it but I dont want you to be to blame if any thing Should hapen that the certificate
                                    was lost I will Send 50 or 55 dollars more in 2 or 3 weeks and I will let Pary go to
                                    the Bank and get the Certificate let me know how much money John Abrell got and who
                                    he give for Security you may look for me home this Sumer or fall you may dry apples
                                    and get evry thing that you can I am coming home on a furlow if the war is not over
                                    but I think the war will Soon be over then I will be the hapyest man in the world
                                    when I can be with my Sweet wife and little boy but live in hops and do all you can
                                    for our future Comfort and pleasure I will have to Stop for this time Write Soon
                                    give me all of the Satisfaction you can about evry thing
                        
                                    Ever Yours Respectfully
                                    Joshua Jones to Celia
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Fredericksburg
                                    Va
                                 
                              
                           
                                    June 26th 1862
                                
                        Dear Companion
                        I take my pen in hand to Inform you that I Received your letter of the 16th Stating
                                    that you was all well it found me in good health & Enjoying my Self well as
                                    it had Rained all night & when I got up this morning I was Surrounded by
                                    water & in my nest the water was about two inches deep & I am not
                                    dry yet. it Stormed tremendous hard it has Swept away the Rail Road a gain.22 there 
                              
                                 22 Some troops of the 19th Indiana were given the
                                            detail of keeping the 
                                    Richmond, Fredericksburg
                                  & Potomac Railroad
                                            between 
                                                Fredericksburg
                                             and Acquia Creek Landing in repair. Nothing in the letters
                                            implies that Jones was part of the repair crew, but if he were camped near
                                            the line, he certainly would have been aware of the damage done. Nolan, Iron Brigade, 58–60.
                           
                                     has been 3 men drowned Since we come here but
                                    none of our Regt but Thomas Gilbert tried to cut his throat23
                                    you Said that you got that money & my likeness also. I dont know whether I
                                    will Send any money home this pay day or not for our year is up the 29th of July
                                    & we have to pay for all of the clothes that we drawn over the amount of
                                    $42 but I will not have but little to pay if any but I think I can make a
                                    Speculation a trading.
                        you Said that you had planted garden Stuff & was going to make apple butter
                                    & fix things all Right that is Right you will never loose any thing by it
                                    for I am coming home on a furlough this winter if we are not discharged Cap sayes he
                                    will get me a furlough if it can be had at all. I think Mat has made a wild Shot if
                                    he knows when he is well off he had better keep out of the army for it not a place
                                    for pleasure nor a field for play unless he wants to play with lead balls &
                                    Sometimes they throw them pretty hard & they Rattle a Round like hail
                        tell mother that I will Send her a present just as Soon as I can get one that is
                                    worth Sending tell her that if She will keep in as good Spirits as I am all will be
                                    Right.
                        I cant get home this summer but I will come next winter I think I am going to join
                                    the artillery if I can get off from Cap Wilson, here is a paper for you to Read
                                    & a card as a token of my love for you I wish you would Send me a 
                                        Muncie
                                     paper you can Send it as I did this. I Sent you two more pictures how
                                    do you think they look & who do you think they look like keep in good heart
                                    I think I will get to kiss your Sweet lips again Someday, well I must bring my
                                    letter to a close I am on Poliece to day corporal of the Poliece Squad, kiss Eddy a
                                    time or too for me oh how I would like to See him & his mother.
                        No More but Remaines your Most Affectionate Husband
                        
                                    Joshua Jones Cpl24
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  23 The best study on morale among northern troops is Bell I. Wiley, The Life of Billy Yank: The Common Soldier of the Union (
                            Garden City
                        , N. Y., 1971). Wiley notes that morale fell when soldiers suffered long periods of
                        illness and when conditions in camp became difficult. He writes that no reliable figures on
                        suicide exist but notes that "accidental" shootings of soldiers with their own
                        guns were very common. See pages 275–96. Thomas H. Gilbert of 
                            Delaware
                         County served as wagoner for Company E, 19th Indiana during its entire three years
                        of service. He was mustered out of the army in July, 1864. Report of the Adjutant
                            General, IV, 398.
               
                  24 Although Jones was never listed as a corporal in the Indiana adjutant
                        general's report, in his service records the muster of December, 1861, indicates that
                        he was a private, that of March, 1862, lists him as a corporal. Report of the
                            Adjutant General, IV, 398; Jones file, "Service Records of Volunteer Soldiers
                        who served in Organizations of the State of Indiana."
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Fredericksburg
                                 
                              
                              Stafford co 
                                    Virginia
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 15th 1862
                                
                        My Dear Wife
                        I am once more permitted to drop you a few lines in answer to your kind comunication
                                    of the 5th and 8th which come to hand a few minets ago & was Read with great
                                    pleasure to hear from home once more & to hear that you was all well
                                    & in good Spirits for that is Really the only & greatest pleasure
                                    that I Enjoy.
                        Dear Celia if you only knew what a great pleasure & Satisfaction it is to me
                                    to Read a letter from your hand you would Surely feel more Interested in writing to
                                    me I began to think that I was Entirely forgotten by my only nearest &
                                    dearest friend for it was So long before I got a letter from her. you said that you
                                    had put up Some currents & was going to put up Some cherries & had
                                    your quilt about half out you are Some[thing] I always knew that you was a Smart
                                    girl but I did not like to Say So.
                        I often think about the Evening that Eliza Jane called me to the house & you
                                    was on the bed crying & I talked So hard to you I feel Sorrow for it
                                    & hope you will forgive me for it
                        I did not do it because I did not care but because I thought it the better way to get
                                    you Reconsiled you know that I think more of you than any thing Else on Earth for we
                                    could have So much fun & Satisfaction with Eachother Runing a Round
                                    & taging & catching Eachother & fondling over Eachother So
                                    loving, you must have your picture taken Just as nice as you can So it will look
                                    pleasing & Sweet & Send it to me.
                        My Dear wife you must Ever Remember the one that loves you So dear
                        you Said that you was at the forth [July 4] I was too but I was laying in my tent all
                                    day Sick & almost Smothered to death it was So warm I was thinking about you
                                    all day & wandering where you was & what you was doing.
                        We have had a pretty good time while we have been here but we are under marching
                                    orders now & will leave here Soon for 
                                        Richmond
                                     or Gordensville.25 I think the fight at 
                                        Richmond
                                     will End the war if they will Stand & fight & not
                                    Evacuate but I fear that we are going to have to fight 
                                        England
                                     & if we do I have no hopes of Ever getting home but if not I
                                    think that you may look for me this 
                              
                                 25 On June 26, 1862, McDowell's corp was
                                            incorporated into the Army of Northern 
                                                Virginia
                                            , commanded by John Pope. The new army consisted of units
                                            stationed in northern 
                                                Virginia
                                             and in the Shenandoah Valley. Although Jones does not say, the
                                            19th was moved from 
                                                Fredericksburg
                                             to Gordonsville to protect approaches to the Shenandoah along
                                            the 
                                                Virginia
                                             Central Railroad. Nolan, Iron Brigade,
                                        61.
                           
                                     winter.26 you Said that you
                                    got them pictures I got Eddys picture he is a pretty little boy he takes that after
                                    his pretty Mother & his Smartness too but his [Sponkeyness?] he takes after
                                    his old father.
                        there has Sevral died here this week it is So hot one man fell out of the Ranks
                                    yesterday at dress parade he was Sun Struck he had not been well for a few days tell
                                    John that I have wrote him too letters Since he has wrote to me. tell the old folks
                                    that I Received their Respects but can not give a letter in Return for compliments
                                    tell them to write oh how I would like to See my Celia & our little boy you
                                    must write when you feel like it but if I did I would write all of the time I will
                                    have to Close for this time asking you to write without delay I will Ever Remain
                                    your affectionate & Loving husband until Death
                        
                                    Joshua Jones
                                    farewell Celia Eddy good by
                                
                        when this you See Remember me though many miles a part we
                                bee
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Cedar Mountain
                              Culpepper Co 
                                    Va
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Aug 18th 1862
                                
                        My Dear Companion
                        it is again that I am permitted to drop you a few lines to let you know that I am
                                    well & hope these few lines may Reach & find you well & in
                                    good Spirits. You must Excuse me for not writing Sooner for we have been marching
                                    for the last two weeks we made a Reconoitering about two weeks ago out toward 
                                        Richmond
                                     & got in a Skirmish with the Rebels and for a while the case
                                    looked a little Billious but we got back by loosing Several prisoners27 they [Confederates] had us cut off Entirely at one time & they
                                    dashed around among us pretty lively for a while When we got 
                              
                                 26 This comment is made in response to numerous rumors
                                            that 
                                                England
                                             and 
                                                France
                                             planned to recognize the Confederacy, a move which would have
                                            almost forced the Union to declare war on the European powers. Following the
                                            battle of 
                                                Antietam
                                             (Sharpsburg), such rumors became less frequent, and they were
                                            no longer heard after the Federal victory at 
                                                Gettysburg
                                            . James Rawley, Turning Points in the Civil
                                            War (Lincoln, Nebr., 1966), 113–14.
                              
                                 27 This was one of a series of raids undertaken by the
                                            Iron Brigade between 
                                                Richmond
                                             and the Shenandoah Valley in early August, 1861. The purpose
                                            was to break Confederate communications between 
                                                Richmond
                                             and the Valley. Long, Civil War Day by Day,
                                            247.
                           
                                     back to Camp we got orders to march the next
                                    morning at 4 oclock to Reinforce Banks So we did not get much Rest28 we did not get here in time to get into the fight29 we
                                    are now laying at the foot of Cedar mountain on the Edge of the Battle ground I was
                                    all over the Battle ground yesterday there is plenty of the Rebells that is harried
                                    So Shallow that their hands & feet is Sticking out & Some places
                                    there is So many in one hole & since they have Swelled their Shoulders or
                                    hips are above the ground & the maggots are all over them it creates a
                                    dreadful Smell there is plenty of peaces of arms legs & all parts of men
                                    Scatered over the fields I Seen lots of hair & blood & bloody
                                    clothes with bulet holes in them & dead horses any amount of them our men is
                                    baried alittle better they are baried in trenches there is two trenches about 30
                                    Rods long & there they are layed Side by Side our loss is Said to be over
                                    one thousand the Bomb Shells & bulets is laying thick all over our Camp two
                                    men was killed yesterday by leting a Shell fall & it Exploded it was a
                                    percusion Shell I Can not tell half in a letter but you will See the account in the
                                    papers the battle was between Slaughter mountain & Cedar mountain Tell Parys
                                    that I have wrote to them last I would like to know how Johns is geting along
                                    & whether they are Still trying the Serve the lord & how people Seem
                                    to like the drafting in general you used to Say that there was no danger of being
                                    drafted what do you think now. what I Say comes true Sometimes.30
                        
                        
                           
                              28 Nathaniel P. Banks, commander of Union troops in
                                        western 
                                            Virginia
                                        , was encountering Thomas J, ("Stonewall")
                                        Jackson's troops in the Shenandoah Valley. Allan Nevins, The War for the Union: War Becomes Revolution, 1862–1863 (
                                            New York
                                        , 1960), 123ff.
                           
                              29 Jones refers to the Battle of Cedar Mountain, August 9,
                                        1862. This was the first fighting that led to the second Bull Run campaign. The
                                        Battle of Cedar Mountain is also referred to as the Battle of Slaughter
                                        Mountain. See Jones's reference in his letter of September 6, 1862.
                                        James G. Randall and David Donald, The Civil War and
                                        Reconstruction (2nd ed., 
                                            Boston
                                        , 1961), 218ff.
                           
                              30 By midsummer, 1862, the early eagerness to volunteer
                                        for military service had waned in Indiana and in other states, and calls for
                                        additional troops in June and again in July made the prospect of conscription to
                                        fill quotas very real. On July 17 Congress authorized the states to draft
                                        members to fill their militia quotas if necessary. The draft was to be
                                        administered by state officials, and by the end of July steps had been taken in
                                        every township in Indiana to enroll men subject to conscription. Resentment led
                                        to violence in a number of instances. In October, 1862, after still another call
                                        for soldiers, three thousand men were drafted to fill Indiana's quota
                                        of forty-two thousand. A subsequent accounting indicated that the draft had in
                                        reality been unnecessary and that the number of volunteers had exceeded the
                                        quota. In March, 1863, a second conscription act that provided for the
                                        enrollment of eligible men by Federal officials was passed. William H. H.
                                        Terrell, Indiana in the War of the Rebellion: Vol. I, Report of the Adjutant General of the State of Indiana (1869;
                                        reprint, Indiana Historical Collections, Vol. XLI; 
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1960), 49–54. Apparently men were drafted from 
                                            Delaware
                                         County in 1862, but the county experienced no subsequent drafts.
                                        Kingman, History of 
                                                Delaware
                                             County, Indiana, 113. For a general discussion of
                                        conscription during the Civil War see James W. Geary, We Need Men:
                                            The Union Draft in the Civil War (
                                            DeKalb
                                        , 111., 1991).
                        
                        
                        
                           GRAVES OF UNION SOLDIERS NEAR CEDAR MOUNTAIN, VIRGINIA, DURING THE SECOND BULL
                                        RUN CAMPAIGN
                        
                        
                           ADDITIONAL CASUALTIES AT CEDAR MOUNTAIN
                           Courtesy 
                                            Massachusetts
                                         Commandery, Military Order of the Loyal Legion, and U. S. Army
                                        Military History Institute, 
                                            Carlisle
                                         Barracks, Pennsylvania.
                        
                        
                        Bart Harter is not dead yet he is too [illegible] ornery31 I will
                                    Send you five dollars in this letter I did not get all that was coming to me this
                                    pay day & want to Send home anough next time to make out two hundred dollars
                                    I loned out Some on Intrest till next pay day
                        tell Mother to keep in good Spirits tell all of the friend to write if they
                                    [illegible] like it all of the boys gets more letters than I do. now my Dear Celia I
                                    want you to write me if no body Else does for I love you more than all the world
                                    & I am content when I can hear from you I dreamed of huging and kissing you
                                    all night last night oh how [happy] I was but how bad I did feel this morning. I
                                    must close write Soon
                        oh how [I] love & want to See my Dear Celia good bye Celia from your [lover?]
                        
                                    Joshua Jones cpl
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Fort 
                                    Warren
                                    Virginia
                                 
                                 32
                              
                           
                                    Sept 6th 1862
                                
                        My Dear Wife
                        I am truly thankful that I am granted the privilege once more of Informing you that I
                                    am Still a live & well & Sincerely hope these few lines may find you
                                    all well & Enjoying your Selves well. Celia this is one privilege more then
                                    I Ever Expected to Enjoy but thanks to the almighty I have come out alive, the
                                    Bombardment comenced at the Rappahnnock [River] on the 21st of August & it
                                    lasted 3 days at that point we was under the fire three days & nights there
                                    then we marched to 
                                        Gainesville
                                     & was Shelled all of the way there & on the Evening of
                                    the 28th one mile north of 
                                        Gainesville
                                     we had an Engagement with the Enemy which lasted till after dark33 it was there that I feared that I would End my days the man
                                    on my left was Shot down & both of the men to my Right was Shot Jacob Miller
                                    was wounded & fell at my feet & his gun hit me on the Shoulder as he
                                        fell34 I got one ball hole in my hat & one through
                                    the left Side of my Coat we lost 260 that 
                              
                                 31 Barton S. Harter was from 
                                                Delaware
                                             County and served with Jones in Company E of the 19th Indiana.
                                            Harter was killed at 
                                                Antietam
                                             on September 17, 1862, just one month after Jones's
                                            letter to Celia. Report of the Adjutant General, IV, 398.
                              
                                 32 This letter was written following the Second Battle
                                            of Bull Run. The 19th Indiana and other units engaged in the battle were
                                            brought closer to 
                                                Washington
                                             in order to rest and recuperate. Fort 
                                                Warren
                                             is perhaps the name given to the bivouac area, for at this time
                                            the unit was stationed on Upton's Hill about two miles southeast of
                                            Arlington. Fort 
                                                Warren
                                             was located in 
                                    Boston, Massachusetts
                                 . Nolan, Iron
                                            Brigade, 111.
                              
                                 33
                                            
                                                Gainesville
                                             lies thirty-five miles southwest of 
                                                Washington
                                            , D. C.
                              
                                 34 Jacob Miller of 
                                                Delaware
                                             County served with Jones in Company E of the 19th Indiana. He
                                            was wounded in this encounter at 
                                                Gainesville
                                             but continued to serve with the regiment until he was mustered
                                            out in July, 1864. Report of the Adjutant General, IV,
                                            398.
                           
                                     night on the 30th near the old Bull Run Battle
                                    ground we had an other Engagement which lasted till the Evening of the 31st our
                                    losses is Said to be Seventeen thousand the dead & wounded lay So thick that
                                    we could not help Steping on them when we was changing our position on the field our
                                    Regiment come very near all being taken prisoners they did get Several I can tell
                                    you all about it when I get home we will not have to fight any more for a while for
                                    our corps is ordered back to 
                                        Washington
                                     to rest & Recruit up & protect the capiftal] you need
                                    not be uneasy now I think I will get home Safe our flag is all Shot to peaces John
                                    Harter & Bart was not in the fight35 they are both
                                    cowards we have been under fire altogether 9 days. Cap got your letter to day I
                                    wrote you a letter from Slaughters mountain about the 18th of Aug & Sent
                                    five dollars in it I have not had a letter for a long time I am going to quit
                                    writing I have not heard from your father nor John Abrell nor Pary nor any body Else
                                    for two or three months Can it be possible that they have all forgotten me I
                                    Sometimes do not care if I am killed only for your Sake I often thought of you
                                    during this Battle & thought if you only knew that I was on the Battle field
                                    part of the time fighting & part of time Standing watching &
                                    listening at the canon balls & Brim Shells So I could dodge them or fall
                                    down when they bursted to keep from geting killed I would not had you or Mother to
                                    of known Just my Situation for nothing in the world, while you was going about the
                                    house or in your bed aSleep I was Either laying on the Battle field in the Raine or
                                    Seting up anodding it Rained three days you have no Idea what we have to go through
                                    tell Neps that old John has got a Bulet in his neck our Major was killed36 the Adjutants horse was Shot from under him37 I will close on the other Sheet38
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  35 For Barton S. Harter see note 30 above. John F. Harter of 
                            Delaware
                         County also served in Company E of the 19th Indiana. When the regiment's
                        three-year term of enlistment was completed in July, 1864, John Harter reenlisted and served
                        until he was mustered out of the army in July, 1865. Report of the Adjutant
                            General, IV, 398, 438.
               
                  36 Isaac M. May from 
                            Delaware
                         County had been mustered into service as captain of Company A of the 19th Indiana.
                        In February, 1862, he was promoted to major of the regiment. May was killed at 
                            Gainesville
                         on August 28, 1862. Official Records, ser. I, vol. XII, p. 378;
                            Report of the Adjutant General, II, 168, 169.
               
                  37 Lieutenant Colonel Solomon Meredith had his horse shot from under him
                        at 
                            Gainesville
                         and was forced to withdraw from the field. Nolan, Iron Brigade,
                        131; see also [Catharine Merrill], The Soldier of Indiana in the War for the
                        Union (2 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1866, 1869), I, 587.
               
                  38 The second sheet of this letter is no longer extant. This was the last
                        letter that Celia received from Joshua, or, at least, it was the last that she kept. On
                        September 6, 1862, the day that Jones wrote it, "Stonewall" Jackson occupied
                        Frederick, 
                            Maryland
                        , and Confederate troops began the push northward that culminated in the Battle at 
                            Antietam
                         (Sharpsburg). The battle, known as the "bloodiest day in the war"
                        occurred on September 17 and resulted in the death of 5,100 men, with 18,000 wounded. James M.
                        McPherson, Ordeal by Fire: The Civil War and Reconstruction (
                            New York
                        , 1982), 282–87.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              On the Battle field of Tietam Creek Md
                           
                                    Sept. 25th 1862.
                                
                        Mrs. Jones:
                        By the request of your husband I write to let you know of his whereabouts and
                                    condition. Doubtless ere this reaches you you will have seen or heard through the
                                    Papers of the misfortune with which he met in the battle of the 17th of this month.
                                    But for the purpose of giving you a more satisfactory account of the matter he
                                    desires me to write and tell you to some extent the particulars as they really are.
                                    Then to commence I will say that as our Reg't. was making a charge on the
                                    rebels—and when they had got within the rebel lines—he was
                                    struck by a musket ball, taking effect in right leg—just above the
                                    ancle—breaking and literally shivering the bone to attorns, being too
                                    severely wounded to get back off of the field himself and the rebels were in too
                                    strong numbers at this point—, our Regiment had to fall back a short
                                    distance—leaving the dead and wounded in the hands of the
                                    rebels—. They took him back into their lines where he remained without
                                    any attention being paid to his wound from Wednesday morning—the time
                                    when he was wounded—until Friday afternoon when the rebels evaccuated
                                    their position. At this time our boys went over and found him and brought him back
                                    but his wound was so sore by this time that he could not bear to be hauled in the
                                    ambulance—so they carried him to the Hospital on a
                                    stretcher—for such purposes—a distance of three or four
                                    miles—where he now is and his wound is receiving proper attention, his
                                    leg had to [be] amputated—, in consequence of the bone being so badly
                                    shivered, they had to take it off about two thirds or three fourths of the way up
                                    between the ancle and the knee—just about the place that the garter
                                    fastens. He is getting along as well as could be expected under the circumstances.
                                    He says to tell Perry Ross—and your Father—that he received
                                    their letters—but that they need not expect him to
                                    answer them soon—as he is not able to write to any one now. He says that
                                    you may expect him home some time this fall—so soon as he is able to
                                    come, he will not be any longer able for the service—and will be
                                    discharged. I hardly know how to tell you the best way to direct letters to him but
                                    think that the safest and surest way is to direct them as heretofore, and I will use
                                    my best endeavors to have them forwarded to him at the earliest opportunity. However
                                    if you think best you might try one directing in this manner, Joshua Jones Co. E.
                                    19th Reg't Ind. Vol. In Hospital at Keedysville, 
                                        Washington
                                     Co. Md39 But as the Hospital is not a permanent
                                    one—and 
                              
                                 39 Keedysville was a hamlet midway between Sharpsburg
                                            and Boonesboro, 
                                                Maryland
                                            .
                           
                                     liable to be mooved at any
                                    time—think the former the surest way—.
                        I presume that it will be some time yet before he will be able to write
                                    himself—and it will doubtless be a gratification to you to hear how he is
                                    getting along—. I will therefore take it upon myself to inform you from
                                    time to time as I may be able to hear—, how he is progressing. Trusting
                                    that you may bear this sad intelligence with becoming fortitude, and in a manner
                                    worthy the wife of so brave and patriotic a husband, remembering that though he must
                                    suffer much pain and forever the loss of his limb—, yet his life has been
                                    spared and that you will soon have the gratification of again seeing and enjoying
                                    his presence—that though his loss is a severe one—yet the
                                    reflection that the sacrifice was made in so noble a cause will in part compensate
                                    for the inconvenience and he will bear through life a living testimony of his
                                    devotion for his country and her institutions.
                        
                                    With regards
                                    I am very Respectfully
                                    Geo. W. Greene40
                           
                                    Lieut Co. "E" 19th Ind. Vol.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Sharpsburg Md
                           
                                    Oct 8/62
                                
                        Mrs. Joshua Jones
                        Dear Madam
                        Your letter to your husband directed to my care bearing date Oct 1st came to hand
                                    today In reply I deeply regret to iform you that your husband is no more, that he
                                    passed from this life Sept. 30th. You have doubtless received this melancholy
                                    intelligence ere this, as a friend of his was here several days before his death
                                    when all hope of his recovery was gone His leg was amputated below the knee by Dr
                                    Obensole of this regiment several days before I saw him (the 20th of Sept I believe)
                                    and while I was sick in 
                                        Washington
                                    
                           41 I just saw him about 7 days before his death
                                    Since the amputation up to that time the leg had been doing well, but on my 
                              
                                 40 George W. 
                                                Greene
                                             from 
                                                Delaware
                                             County first served as lieutenant of Company E of the 19th
                                            Indiana. He was promoted to captain in April, 1863, and was honorably
                                            discharged from service in March, 1865, after having been a prisoner of war
                                            at Libby and other southern prisons for twenty months following the Battle
                                            of 
                                                Gettysburg
                                            . Report of the Adjutant General, II, 172;
                                            Kingman, History of 
                                                    Delaware
                                                 County, 114–16, 119.
                              
                                 41 Jacob Ebersole from 
                                                Aurora
                                            , Indiana, was surgeon of the 19th Indiana from April, 1862,
                                            until he was mustered out of service in October, 1864, when the 19th was
                                            consolidated with the 20th Indiana (Reorganized). Report of the
                                                Adjutant General, II, 169.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              BURYING THE FEDERAL DEAD AFTER ANTIETAM (SHARPSBURG)
                           
                                    
                              DR. OTHO SMITH'S HOUSE AND BARN, NEAR KEEDYSVILLE, MARYLAND, SERVED
                                            AS A HOSPITAL AFTER ANTIETAM. Courtesy 
                                                Massachusetts
                                             Commandery, Military Order of the Loyal Legion, and U. S. Army
                                            Military History Institute, 
                                                Carlisle
                                             Barracks, Pennsylvania.
                           
                                     first examination I discovered a small
                                    gangrenous or mortified spot which extended rappidly in spite of all our efforts to
                                    arrest it It is known as hospital gangrene which once started is difficult to arrest
                                    He received every possible attention & kindness that could be bestowed on
                                    anyone away from home His sufferings were not very great
                        I was ordered to another post before his death I think he died the following day
                                    Henry Marsh of 
                                        Muncie
                                     was Set apart especily to wait on him42
                        
                        His remains were decently buried in a cemetry near by & a board placue at his
                                    head with his name & regt egraved upon it With expressions of deepest
                                    sympathy for you in this heavy affliction and the hope that God will give you
                                    strength to bear up with Christian fortitude and resignation I am your most sincere
                                    friend and obt Servant
                        
                                    J N Green43
                           
                                    Asst Surg 19th Ind Vols.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Sharpsburg Md
                           
                                    Oct 8th 1862
                                
                        Dear Madam
                        Dr Green wrote the enclosed letter which he was not going to send as I had writen to
                                    My Father of the death of your kind, noble and brave husband, the Drs and I found
                                    Joshua at a barn (where he had been taken by the secesh) his wounds had not reed any
                                    attentions until we came he was then taken to Keedysville on a litter (he had been
                                    put in an ambulance but he could not be hauled so they carried [him] there (3 or 4
                                    miles) where his foot was amputated and did well for a while but mortification set
                                    in when he sunk rapidly. I was sent with the Regt after the Battle but afterwards
                                    orderd to Keedysville as soon as I came he was glad to see me and wanted me to see
                                    to him which I did with the other nurses and a lady from 
                                        Boston
                                     who was very kind to the boys, (she came to wait on the soldiers
                                    voluntarily) he received good attention after he was found. A day
                                    or so before he died I was talking to him of his relations he said he wanted me to
                                    write to you but not then, 
                              
                                 42 Henry C. Marsh of 
                                                Muncie
                                             joined the 19th Indiana in November, 1861. He is listed in the
                                            adjutant general's report as an unassigned recruit. When the 19th
                                            and 20th regiments were combined in January, 1864, Marsh was mustered into
                                            the 20th (Reorganized). He is listed there under regimental noncommissioned
                                            staff as a hospital steward. Report of the Adjutant
                                            General, IV, 409, 432.
                              
                                 43 J. N. Green of 
                                                Indianapolis
                                             served as assistant surgeon of the 19th Indiana from September,
                                            1861, until he resigned in December, 1862. Report of the
                                                Adjutant General, II, 169.
                           
                                     when he got better, but he [was] getting worse
                                    I spoke to the lady nurse and she and I went in and told him that the Drs had given
                                    him up and if he wanted to send any word to you I would write it. he said for
                                    "you to take the best care of your seffe and child that you
                                    could." "Selia you know I have done the best I could for
                                    you". "I am prepared to die", he was in hopes that he
                                    would get well until I told him he was going to die. he passed away very quietly not
                                    haveing but little pain. Capt Wilson had a coffin made for him costing
                                    $6.00. and a head board was placed up for him in the grave yard. Capt
                                    Wilson speaks very highly of him as a soldier both on the Battle field and camp I
                                    always saw him at his post where ever it was. My sincere prayr is that God may bless
                                    you with the consolations which alone come from him and his protection in your
                                    bereavement that you may meet togeather arround the throne. You can learn of the
                                    date of my Father as I sent a letter to him stateing his death. Remaining your
                                    Friend I subscribe my selfe
                        
                                    H. C. Marsh
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Citizen Klansmen: The Ku Klux Klan in Indiana, 1921—1928. By Leonard
                    J. Moore. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1991. Pp. xiv, 259. Tables, map, illustration, appendix, notes, bibliography,
                    index. $34.95.)
            In a recent letter to a 
                        Kokomo
                     newspaper a reader chastised the publication for an article on local Ku Klux Klan
                    activities during the 1920s, an item which allegedly presented too benign a view of a
                    "terrorist organization…opposed to everything decent." Such articles,
                    the writer protested, could only assist David Duke's political ambitions. (
                        Kokomo
                     Perspective, January 15, 1992, p. 2).
            Leonard J. Moore's Citizen Klansmen attempts to dispel the notion that the
                    Indiana Klan of the 1920s should be linked with the extremism of the
                    post—Civil War organization or contemporary Klan movements. The book is part of a growing
                    revisionist school that rejects traditional interpretations stressing the racist, nativist agenda
                    and allegedly irrational nature of the 1920s Klan. Instead, as in Larry R. Gerlach's study
                    on 
                        Utah
                     and Robert A. Goldberg's on 
                        Colorado
                    , revisionists argue that one must understand the Klan's success during the
                    1920s more in terms of particular social, political, and economic problems that truly afflicted
                    individual communities.
            Moore's book is clearly the most important piece of scholarship to date concerning the
                    Indiana Klan. Using complex statistical analysis of various Klan records, including complete or
                    partial membership lists for 
                  Indianapolis,
                            Crown Point
               , and 
                        Wayne
                     County, Moore demonstrates that Klansmen represented a wide occupational cross section
                    of white Protestants, with no particular tendency toward religious fundamentalism. He also rejects
                    the idea that the Indiana Klan, the nation's largest, was "an aberration emanating
                    from the South" (p. 53) and illustrates that it was strongest in the central and northern
                    portions of the state. Its special appeal was rooted in the changes wrought by industrialization and
                    urbanization, although it found significant support in rural areas and small towns as well as in
                    cities.
            The major thesis is that the Indiana Klan is best understood as a populist, not a nativist,
                    organization. The Hoosier Klan "concerned itself primarily not with persecuting ethnic
                    minorities but with promoting the ability of average citizens to influence the workings of society
                    and government" (p. 11). Members were concerned 
                    
                  KLANSMEN AMONG NATIVE WHITE MEN, BY COUNTY, 1925 Reproduced from Leonard J. Moore, Citizen Klansmen: The Ku Klux Klan in Indiana, 1921–1928 (
                                Chapel Hill
                            , N. C., 1991), 54.
               
                     about enforcement of Prohibition, crime, and political
                    corruption and "sought to revitalize a sense of social and civic unity in community life
                    and uphold traditional religious and moral values" (p. 11). If they easily accepted the
                    Klan's nativist and white supremacist ideology, this simply reflected general bigotry in
                    Indiana. Although Catholics, Jews, and foreigners might be identified with alarming social changes,
                    they and blacks were too small in number to be regarded as genuine threats. Moore views the extreme
                    rhetoric directed against Catholics and foreigners as hyperbole that few literally believed,
                    maintains that boycotts against Catholic and Jewish businesses were largely ineffective, and points
                    out that there were few if any documented instances of direct physical violence against minorities.
                    The Klan's real battle was against political and economic elites, typified by the
                    Republican Old Guard and members of the Rotary and the Chamber of Commerce, who had become locally
                    dominant by the 1920s but were regarded as hostile or indifferent to moral and political reform.
            Moore challenges the common view that the Klan's success largely resulted from the
                    manipulative abilities of Grand Dragon D. C. Stephenson. The Indiana Klan flourished in spite of
                    mediocre, corrupt leadership; Stephenson "exploited, rather than controlled, a movement
                    that was essentially decentralized and community-oriented" (p. 9). Moore points out, as
                    have others, that the organization had little legislative impact.
            This portrayal of the Klan as a populist movement based on "white Protestant
                    nationalism" (p. 23) is in some ways constructive. There is considerable evidence
                    suggesting that civic and social concerns were more important than prejudice in drawing large
                    numbers of Hoosiers into the Klan. Yet Moore's assertion that "Klan chapters
                    generally had little reason to concern themselves with harassing white ethnic minorities"
                    (p. 189) is disconcerting, for this is in fact what the Klan often did. It may be true that the
                    Klan's economic boycotts were not very effective (this is difficult to prove one way or the
                    other) and that physical violence was minimal. Still, boycotts were implemented; minorities
                    sometimes did lose positions and, as Moore admits, did feel intimidated. If the Klan itself was not
                    the prime force working for racial segregation, nonetheless it lent its full support.
                    Moore's own examination of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Klan suggests that, at least there, racism was an important factor.
            The Klan's attack on community elites in Indiana and elsewhere is an important and sometimes
                    overlooked aspect of the movement. In many communities Klan-sponsored direct action was taken
                    against bootleggers, gamblers, and other alleged purveyors of vice. In a certain sense, then, the
                    populist label seems appropriate. Yet it remains unclear to what degree these actions constituted a
                    true grass-roots movement or resulted from manipulation  by
                    local Klan leaders with ulterior motives. Could there really have been much of a Klan movement
                    without such leaders? Unfortunately, Moore does not delve into one area that might advance his
                    thesis. In the wake of the 1925 Stephenson scandals that discredited the Klan, the press reported
                    movements within individual klaverns to overthrow the authoritarian leadership and introduce a
                    measure of democracy into the Invisible Empire.
            Not only did these efforts at democratization flounder but, as Moore concedes, the Klan failed to
                    accomplish very much of its "populist" agenda. One must question Moore's
                    assertions that the Klan possessed a "remarkable ability to create a sense of congruity
                    within Indiana's predominantly white Protestant communities" (p. 101) and that it
                    was devoted to a definition of community based on a traditional value system rather than the idea of
                    business success that was being pushed by Chamber of Commerce types. The Klan talked about promoting
                    Protestant unity, but ultimately it generated a division among Protestants that went beyond
                    non-elites challenging elites. Ideologically, the Klan did seem to espouse traditional values above
                    pecuniary gain, but the whole movement was so beset by huckstering and profiteering that one has to
                    wonder not just about the organizers but about the actual values of the rank and file. For example,
                    the Klan drive to construct a Protestant hospital in 
                        Kokomo
                     to rival the city's Catholic facility can be seen as an expression of local
                    prejudice, as a public relations gimmick, and as an example of the kind of civic
                    booster-ism (a second hospital would help local business) that Moore says the Klan resisted. The
                    author's discussion of the 
                        Richmond
                     Klan indicates that members were divided on proposals designed to benefit local
                    industries. Moreover, the TWK (trade with a klansman) program was designed not just to damage
                    Catholic and Jewish enterprises but to enhance the fortunes of Klansmen.
            Moore correctly asserts that the Klan of the 1920s did not represent a simple desire to return to
                    normalcy and that with its focus on prohibition, vice, and government corruption it carried on past
                    Progressive crusades. Perhaps the real challenge is to reconsider carefully the American reform
                    tradition's relationship with nativism, racism, and self-advancing opportunism. In other
                    contexts historians have recognized these interconnections. Moore appreciates this to some degree,
                    as readers will find, but future studies of the Indiana Klan will need to give even more attention
                    to this issue.
            ALLEN SAFIANOW is professor of history, Indiana University at 
                        Kokomo
                    , and has conducted research on the Indiana Ku Klux Klan. His article,
                    "‘Konklave in 
                        Kokomo
                    ’ Revisited" was published in the May, 1988, issue of The Historian.
            
         
         
            
               Tony Hinkle: Coach for All Seasons. By Howard 
                        Caldwell
                    . (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1991. Pp. xv, 188. Illustrations, appendix, index.
                    $19.95.)
            Apparently no one has ever called Paul Daniel "Tony" Hinkle Mr. Chips, but the name
                    fits. Although Hinkle only lived slightly  more than a year in
                    the nineteenth century, he seems to have belonged more to that century than to the twentieth. Most
                    of today's coaches are gypsies, roving from school to school in search of the bigger,
                    better deal. Many measure loyalty to a school in months. (As of early 1992 there are only eleven
                    NCAA basketball coaches who have been coaching at the same school for twenty or more years.) The
                    worst are bandits without masks. To keep them universities have to promise to get them shoe
                    contracts, clothing contracts, television contracts, radio contracts—as well as
                    automobiles, a house, and a salary equal to the budget of a small department. Of course there are
                    exceptions—and several of them coach basketball for universities in
                    Indiana—and they are praised throughout the sports world as rare individuals. But one
                    only has to read Peter Golenbock's Personal Fouls (1989) or Rick
                    Telander's The Hundred Yard Lie (1989) to realize how exceptional the
                    exceptions are.
            Howard 
                        Caldwell
                    's Tony Hinkle: Coach for All Seasons is the story of a coach
                    who even among the exceptional coaches was something of an exception. Born a few miles south of 
                        Logansport
                    , Indiana, into a family that believed strongly in the value of education, Hinkle was
                    raised on 
                        Chicago
                    's south side and received his college degree from the University of 
                        Chicago
                    , where he played sports under two legendary coaches, Amos Alonzo Stagg and Harlan
                    "Pat" Page. Both coaches left deep impressions on Hinkle. Stagg, whom the players
                    called "the old man," coached forty years at the University of 
                        Chicago
                     before he was forced to retire at the age of seventy; he then took other coaching jobs
                    and continued in his profession until he was ninety-three. Page, who was as warm as Stagg was cold,
                    mixed discipline with good humor and made sports fun. Like his father, Hinkle became a teacher, but
                    like Stagg and Page, he used gymnasiums and playing fields as his classrooms.
            Hinkle ended his playing career at the University of 
                        Chicago
                     in 1920. In early 1921 he followed Page to 
                        Butler
                    . Page stayed at 
                        Butler
                     until 1925, when he resigned and accepted a coaching position at Indiana University.
                    Hinkle stayed at 
                        Butler
                     for the rest of his career. Starting as an assistant coach under Page, Hinkle was a
                    utility man. At one time or another he coached everything but the band. For most of his coaching
                    career, which ended in 1970 when he retired, he coached football, basketball, and baseball. His
                    record is impressive, especially his 572 wins in basketball. But the statistics tell only a very
                    small part of the Hinkle story. Hinkle the man and the teacher overshadowed Hinkle the coach.
            Howard 
                        Caldwell
                    , best known as the anchor of 
                        Indianapolis
                    's WRTV Channel 6 early-evening news and the "Howard" Indiana
                    series, tells Hinkle's story well. First and foremost it is the story of loyalty and
                    humanity. Although early in his career Hinkle was demoted from head coach to assistant coach by 
                        Butler
                    , he never 
                    
                  PAUL DANIEL ("TONY") HINKLE Reproduced from Howard 
                                Caldwell
                            , Tony Hinkle: Coach for All Seasons (
                                Bloomington
                            , 1991).
                quit in frustration or looked for a better position at another school. As always, he hid
                    his feelings and did his best at whatever job was assigned him. Nor did Hinkle try to embarrass his
                    players. As 
                        Caldwell
                     writes, "Hinkle never dressed a player down in front of the team. Serious
                    matters were always discussed in private" (pp. 35–36).
            
               
                        Caldwell
                     also recounts 
                        Butler
                    's growth as a university and its decision to use sports to help enhance its
                    reputation. 
                        Butler
                     and Hinkle matured together, both reaching a balance that brought them deserved credit. 
                        Butler
                     learned to feature sports without overemphasizing sports. Hinkle, a man who hated the
                    idea of recruiting and thought nothing about polishing the basketball court  himself, led 
                        Butler
                     and his players by example. To reconstruct Hinkle's life 
                        Caldwell
                     conducted scores of interviews, examined the leading 
                        Indianapolis
                     newspapers, and received access to the material on Hinkle at 
                        Butler
                    . The end result is a faithful and warm portrait of an exceptional coach.
            RANDY ROBERTS, Purdue University, has written biographies of Jack Dempsey and Jack Johnson as
                    well a study of American sports from 1945 to the present. He is currently working on biographies of
                    Muhammad Ali and John 
                        Wayne
                    .
         
         
            
               In Lincoln's Footsteps: A Historical Guide to the Lincoln Sites in 
                            Illinois
                        , Indiana, and 
                            Kentucky
                        . By Don Davenport. (
                        Madison
                    , Wis.: 
                        Prairie
                     Oak Press, 1991. Pp. xvii, 206. Illustrations, map, additional reading, index.
                    Paperbound, $12.95.)
            In the past year approximately one million people have visited the major Lincoln sites in the
                    tristate area of 
                        Kentucky
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                    . Many of these visitors have a limited knowledge of the significance of the sites and
                    little idea of what they will experience upon their arrival. Travel writer Don Davenport has
                    prepared a historical guide to assist future tourists in preparing and enjoying a visit to the areas
                    associated with the pre-presidential Abraham Lincoln.
            After a chronology of Lincoln's life, the book is divided into the 
                        Kentucky
                    , Indiana, and 
                        Illinois
                     locations. For each major site information if provided on location, hours, admission,
                    accessibility, address and telephone numbers, and directions to the site. This practical information
                    is followed by a narrative entitled "What Happened Here." Davenport provides
                    historical background on the site as well as a description of what the visitor will experience on
                    the visit. Each section concludes with a listing of "Nearby Accommodations" and
                    "Related Lincoln Sites." The epilogue contains a short biographical sketch of each
                    member of the immediate Lincoln family, plus law partner and biographer William Herndon. A short
                    Lincoln bibliography is provided for additional reading.
            Davenport's intent, as the book's first sentence informs the reader, was to write a
                    travel guide, not a Lincoln biography. This he has done in an interesting and readable manner. While
                    some of the site information is not completely accurate, it is a work that will assist the traveler
                    to learn more about the Civil War president and the places significant in his life.
            WILLIAM E. BARTELT is a history teacher in 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, and historian at Lincoln Boyhood National Memorial, Lincoln City, Indiana.
                    His article "The Land Dealings of 
                        Spencer County
                    , Indiana, Pioneer Thomas Lincoln" was published in the September, 1991, issue
                    of the Indiana Magazine of History.
            
         
         
         
            
               Historic 
                            Illinois
                         from the Air. By David Buisseret. Illustrations and cartography by Tom
                    Willcockson. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1990. Pp. xviii, 232. Illustrations, maps, appendix, bibliography, index.
                    $34.95.)
            Pictorial histories have gained increasing respectability among historians as serious students of
                    visual and material culture have experimented with new methods, sources, and concepts. Long
                    considered strictly a commercial product or coffee table adornment, the picture history today can
                    seek to explain or reveal the past, not simply illustrate it. Historic 
                            Illinois
                         from the Air is an important example of this maturing genre.
            Eleven chapters divide the state's history by broad period, settlement group, and region.
                    David Buisseret has consulted most but not all of the important monographs and general histories for
                    his accompanying text and captions. His coverage of successive settlement waves would have benefited
                    from the findings of Daniel J. Elazar and Mark Wyman. To this reviewer there is a slightly
                    disproportionate emphasis (nearly one-half the text) on 
                        Chicago
                     and environs. This focus may be as much the result of available graphic sources as
                    author's choice. More than 300 illustrations, most in color, fill the book's 232
                    pages. The majority are photographs, but there also are numerous drawings, historic maps, and other
                    excellent maps produced expressly for this volume. Buisseret was able to supplement his own
                    photographic inventory with selections from a variety of private and public sources.
            Most exciting among the virtues of an aerial perspective is aerial archaeology, which the author
                    observes can disclose the layout of long-vanished sites, reveal otherwise hidden historical
                    patterns, and capture transitory phenomena. Certain subjects and periods of 
                        Illinois
                     history are more susceptible to this approach than others. Aerial archaeology is thus
                    at its best in this volume when it portrays the outline of eighteenth-century Fort de Chartres in
                    southwestern 
                        Illinois
                    , the narrow rectangular landholdings ("long-lots") of early French
                    settlers, and 
                        Chicago
                    's railway infrastructure and rapidly changing cityscape. Other examples of the
                    special value of aerial illustration are the imprint of ancient Indian trails on 
                        Chicago
                    's otherwise uniform street grid, early nineteenth-century migration and
                    settlement patterns, the conjunction of French and land survey influences in Peoria's
                    hybrid street plan, and differential community development in 
                        Chicago
                    's early suburbs.
            The author and illustrator have maintained high standards for pictorial detail and color fidelity.
                    Only a few photographs—principally aerial horizon views—appear grainy or
                    off-color. Some of the most striking illustrations are products of modern technology in satellite
                    imaging and infrared photography.
            
            This book offers readers and browsers a treasure of arresting pictures, but much more as well. The
                    images tell stories, reveal new truths, and illustrate important patterns in 
                        Illinois
                     history.
            CULLOM DAVIS is professor of history, Sangamon State University, and director of The Lincoln
                    Legal Papers, in 
                  Springfield, Illinois
               . Among his recent writings is an interpretive essay
                    on 
                        Illinois
                     history in James H. 
                        Madison
                    , ed., Heartland: Comparative Histories of the Midwestern States
                    (1988).
         
         
            
               American Apocalypse: The Great Fire and the Myth of 
                            Chicago
                        . By Ross Miller. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1990. Pp. ix, 287. Illustrations, notes, index. $24.95.)
            Like Henry Nash Smith's Virgin Land (1956), the seminal effort in American
                    Studies at identifying and tracing the myths generated out of the negotiation of American values and
                    dreams with American place and experience, Ross Miller's American
                    Apocalypse is an ambitious book. Though the topic is framed by narrower space and a briefer
                    period of time—a single, if unique and unprecedented, city between the comprehensive
                    conflagration of October, 1871, and the lesser one that destroyed the White City of the Columbian
                    Exposition of 1894—articulating it requires the same sensitivity to what is in the
                    "texts" and what lies between them. The destruction, rebuilding, and celebration
                    of 
                        Chicago
                     certainly offered a compelling basis of fact to which emotion, trope, and industry
                    could attach themselves. The fire left 90,000 people homeless and 18,000 buildings destroyed where
                    less than forty years before had been a frontier outpost. Rebuilding on those ashes produced in
                    little more than two decades the modern skyscraper metropolis of Louis H. Sullivan, Daniel Burnham,
                    and John W. Root. The White City marked this unprecedented newness not by acknowledging that
                    authentic architectural uniqueness but by assembling an artificial and reactionary classicism, not
                    by acknowledging the tensions of wealth and labor unrest then portending a new apocalypse but by
                    invoking conventional tableaux of peace and abundance. Miller's survey of relevant
                    materials is commensurate with the scope of the 
                        Chicago
                     story. He draws on journalistic accounts of the fall and rise of the city, boosterism,
                    minor novels and novelists as well as major ones (notably Robert Herrick and Henry B. Fuller),
                    planning documents, the words and structures of the lesser and greater architects. Abundant
                    illustration ties the story to the site.
            But finally 
                        Chicago
                     rather than Miller's argument is the source of coherence. Miller finds too
                    many myths in the flames, and the binary terms in which he conceives them (primitive/modern,
                    destruction/creation, business/art) threaten to reduce them to intellectual abstractions rather than
                    enliven them into a cultural dynamic of image and fact. Too often his explication is without a text
                    or an agent: "The city managed to insinuate itself into  a larger narrative, consciously exploiting its own tragedy as an archetype of the modern struggle
                    against adversity" (p. 2). Though the chapters fashion a useful account of the history of 
                        Chicago
                     literature and architecture, they also become disconnected set pieces of critical
                    invention rather than convincing statements of discovery. In American Apocalypse
                    Miller commits the mistake—too common in myth study—of participating in the
                    creative process rather than convincingly describing it.
            DAVID J. NORDLOH is professor of English and director of American Studies, Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    . He is also general editor of "A Selected Edition of W. D. Howells"
                    and coeditor of the review annual American Literary Scholarship.
            
         
         
            
               Yankee Merchants and the Making of the Urban West: The Rise and Fall of Antebellum 
                            St. Louis
                        . By Jeffrey S. Adler. (
                  Cambridge, England
               : 
                        Cambridge
                     University Press, 1991. Pp. vii, 274. Tables, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $42.50.)
            In the highly mobile American society with its rapid residential turnover it is the people who do not
                    yet live in your neighborhood who will determine its character ten years hence. Jeffrey S. Adler
                    applies this same principle to his analysis of the shifting fortunes of antebellum 
                        St. Louis
                    . The city's future, he argues, was determined less by the attitudes and
                    initiative of its long-term residents than by the decisions of outsiders to migrate to, invest in,
                    or do business in 
                        St. Louis
                    . In particular he attributes the rapid growth of 
                        St. Louis
                     in the late 1840s and early 1850s to its sudden popularity among 
                        New York
                     and New 
                        England
                     businessmen. Its mid-1850s slump and loss of primacy to 
                        Chicago
                     he ascribes to the equally sudden withdrawal of that popularity.
            Many students of urban rivalry in the nineteenth-century 
                        United States
                     have looked within each city to find the causes of its rapid or slow growth. The best
                    known analysis of antebellum 
                        St. Louis
                    , published by Wyatt W. Belcher in 1947, did just that, blaming the city's
                    relative decline on its lack of enterprise and its indifference to railroad building. Adler strongly
                    disagrees, finding the explanation for the erratic career of 
                        St. Louis
                     in external forces. Antebellum 
                        St. Louis
                     faced serious obstacles to the mobilization of capital because of antibanking measures
                    supported by rural Missourians. Indeed, the hostility of downstaters to the city's
                    mercantile functions was a persistent problem from the 1820s to the 1850s. Capital-poor 
                        St. Louis
                     therefore found itself dependent on fickle "Yankee" dollars to
                    finance its mercantile sector. The crisis came when the passage of the 
                        Kansas
                    -
                        Nebraska
                     Bill in 1854 reopened the question of slavery in the territories. Rural Missourians,
                    with their strong southern roots, supported the extension of slavery into 
                        Kansas
                    . Antislavery Yankees such as 
                        New York
                     editor William Cullen Bryant responded by attacking 
                        St. Louis
                     merchants  for failing to restrain their state.
                    More cautious northern investors simply steered away from the chaos of the 
                        Kansas
                     question and sent their money to 
                        Chicago
                    .
            Adler's thesis is stimulating and developed with much more detail and precision than is
                    possible to capture in a quick summary. It offers a convincing explanation that ties urban growth to
                    changes in national opinion as well as to measurable economic factors such as railroad building or
                    tonnage of grain shipments. At the same time, the drama of 
                        St. Louis
                    's "rise and fall" seems overstated. The list of obstacles
                    that early 
                        St. Louis
                     had to overcome—floods, sandbars, anticorporate Democrats, frail banks,
                    cholera—were scarcely unique to that one city. The growth of a major city at the site of 
                        St. Louis
                     was neither more nor less astounding than the growth of 
                  Louisville, Cincinnati,
                            Memphis
               , or 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Its "fall," moreover, was only relative, not absolute. As late as
                    1980 it was still the thirteenth-largest of the nation's 300-odd metropolitan areas. As
                    Adler very interestingly describes, 
                        St. Louis
                     between 1855 and 1867 reconstituted its economy and defined itself as the economic
                    capital of the central South, a role which it pursued with vigor into the twentieth century.
            Although published in a series of Interdisciplinary Perspectives on Modern History, the book borrows
                    neither theory nor method from other disciplines (contrasting, for example, with William
                    Cronon's recent study of 
                        Chicago
                     in Nature's Metropolis [1991]). Instead, Adler has written
                    traditional history based on a thorough and intelligent reading of published sources and manuscript
                    collections and has constructed a plausible narrative of 
                        St. Louis
                    's antebellum development.
            CARL ABBOTT is professor of urban studies and planning, 
                        Portland
                     State University, 
                  Portland, Oregon
               . He has written extensively about urban
                    development in the Old Northwest and is currently completing a book on urbanization in the American
                    West in the twentieth century.
         
         
            
               An American Iliad: The Story of the Civil War. By Charles P. Roland. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1991. Pp. xii, 289. Maps, illustrations, sources, index. $30.00.)
            Charles P. Roland's area of expertise, before his retirement from the University of 
                        Kentucky
                    , was not the Civil War at all, but southern history. His interest in military history
                    derives from experience as a combat infantry captain and association with the 
                        United States
                     Army Military History Institute as well as teaching stints at the War College and at
                    West Point. That he was reared thirty miles from the battlefield at 
                        Shiloh
                     and was graduate assistant to Professor Bell I. Wiley at 
                        Louisiana
                     State University drew him under the spell of the Civil War. Roland's The Confederacy, written thirty years ago, is still widely used in Civil War
                    courses.
            
            The present volume has much to recommend it. Its brevity (less than three hundred pages) will attract
                    general readers, and this same feature makes it useful in university-level courses where collateral
                    readings are heavily used. But those whose knowledge of the period is extensive will also enjoy this
                    volume. The balanced judgments, the pace of the book, its clear and compact style, and the unusually
                    well done maps combine to lace together the experience of the war years.
            Roland contrasts the North and South in the chapters on government and administration. He suggests
                    that the ultimate success of the Union cause is largely traceable to Abraham Lincoln's
                    greater resourcefulness in handling the political, legal, and personality problems that swirled
                    about both presidents. Moreover, readers are reminded that the North enjoyed the skilled and devoted
                    service of figures such as Secretary of War Edwin M. Stanton and Quartermaster General 
                        Montgomery
                     C. Meigs, as well as the unflagging zeal of governors such as Oliver P. Morton of
                    Indiana and Richard Yates of 
                        Illinois
                    . Of great importance is the fact that the Union could draw upon the financial ingenuity
                    resulting from the collusion of Jay Cooke and Secretary of the Treasury Salmon P. Chase, along with
                    a far deeper and better balanced economy.
            Evidently Roland is not convinced that Jefferson Davis's haughty and clangorous temperament
                    was ideally suited to the needs of a people's war. He discusses Davis's lamentable
                    tendency to thrust unpopular favorites upon the people and the army. In general, the Confederate
                    president's handling of his political, military, and journalistic colleagues was of a
                    significantly lower order than Lincoln's; and Davis's quarrels with his
                    adversaries paralyzed the Confederacy.
            Though Roland's treatment of the Civil War period is comprehensive, his handling of military
                    matters may be the strongest feature of the book. His evaluation of leadership and discussion of
                    battles are gratifyingly clear. There are no significant departures from accepted interpretations,
                    but this work does not set itself forward as a revisionist effort.
            The book is very well indexed and includes an extensive and annotated bibliography. In the latter it
                    might have been useful to have captioned the entries in bold type at the head of each topic, but
                    this is of minor importance. General readers, knowledgeable students, and people with responsibility
                    for teaching this material will find this book interesting and useful.
            JOHN K. STEVENS is associate professor of history, Indiana University-Purdue University 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He is currently working on a book about the siege of the Union army at
                            
                  Chattanooga, Tennessee
               , in 1863.
         
         
         
            
               OLIVER H. KELLEY IN FULL GRANGE REGALIA Reproduced from Thomas A. Woods, Knights of
                            the Plow: Oliver H. Kelley and the Origins of the Grange in Republican Ideology (Ames, 
                            Iowa
                        , 1991).
            
            
            
               Knights of the Plow: Oliver H. Kelley and the Origins of the Grange in Republican
                        Ideology. By Thomas A. Woods. (Ames: 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1991. Pp. xxii, 254. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $26.95.)
            Formulating his ideas from farming experiences in 
                        Minnesota
                     prior to the Civil War, Oliver H. Kelley became the driving force for the Grange and
                    its claim to represent farmers in the late 1860s and the early 1870s. This evolution was no mere
                    agricultural expression of dissatisfaction with the economic establishment; it was also an
                    ideological contest of political will for the nation's future. This study provides a
                    reassessment of the Grange and its founder in the Henry A. Wallace Series on Agricultural History
                    and Rural Studies. Formerly site manager of the Oliver Kelley Farm and currently director of the
                    Historic Sites Department of the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, Thomas A. Woods has reappraised Kelley and the Grange from
                    manuscripts and printed materials at the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, Library of Congress, National Archives, and the Grange National
                    Headquarters.
            Woods provides a masterful analysis of Kelley set against the background of eighteenth-century
                    Jeffersonian agrarian republicanism and the rapid changes set in motion by Jacksonian democracy of
                    the 1830s and 1840s. By the 1850s and 1860s farmers had become frustrated with the "market
                    revolution" that left them poorly situated to compete with the economic power of monopolies
                    such as railroads and large corporations. A Democrat by background, Kelley gradually shifted to the
                    emergent Republican party and initially welcomed the 
                        United States
                     Department of Agriculture in 1862 as an appropriate counterforce. When that
                    agency's lack of commitment to ordinary farmers became apparent, Kelley organized the
                    Grange in 1867.
            The Grange's star rose rapidly during the late 1860s and early 1870s. Its sudden ascendency,
                    however, was akin to the candle burning brightest before its equally dramatic decline. Woods traces
                    the turn of events as Kelley confronted the National Grange leadership over issues such as co-op and
                    educational programs and what he perceived as abandonment of radical agrarianism. Rejection of
                    Kelley's radicalism by the organization's conservatives mirrored the alienation of
                    grass-roots farmers who deserted the Grange by 1875 in search of a new protest against monopoly
                    capitalism. This scenario led, within two decades, to the Alliance and Populist movements. Although
                    tactically defeated by his colleagues, Kelley was the harbinger of the future. A thoroughly
                    researched and well-written analysis of the Grange's internal struggles as well as a
                    compelling explanation for its ideological decline, Knights of the Plow deserves
                    serious examination by socio-economic, political, and agricultural historians.
            DAVID E. SCHOB teaches a popular agricultural history course for the Colleges of Agriculture and
                    Liberal Arts, 
                        Texas
                     A&M University, College Station. He was the  recipient of the university's Faculty Distinguished Teaching Award (1991) and of
                    teaching citations from the National Agricultural Honor Society (1988) and Future Farmers of America
                    (1990). Schob is the author of Hired Hands and Plowboys: Farm Labor in the Midwest,
                        1815–60 (1975).
         
         
            
               Farm Wife: A Self-Portrait, 1886–1896. Edited by 
                        Virginia
                     E. McCormick. (Ames: 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1990. Pp. ix, 243. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $22.95.)
            Margaret Dow Gebby was a farm housewife, the wife of a farmer, the mother of three sons, a loving
                    daughter and daughter-in-law, a full participant in the life of the community where she lived in the
                    last part of the nineteenth century. Her home was in 
                        Ohio
                    , but the life she lived resembled that of farm wives throughout the Midwest, including
                    Indiana. Unlike most of her contemporaries, however, Margaret, for eleven years, kept a meticulous
                    diary in which she recorded the weather, her work in the house, the farm work, the life of the
                    community, all expenditures and income for home and farm, and, all too infrequently, her opinions.
                    These diaries have been edited by 
                        Virginia
                     E. McCormick, who was raised on an 
                        Ohio
                     farm and has spent her adult life working in the Cooperative Extension Service, which
                    deals primarily with rural people. In Farm Wife McCormick draws not only on her
                    research but also on her deep understanding of country women.
            The book consists of two voices: those of Margaret and 
                        Virginia
                    . Margaret tells the facts of her life; 
                        Virginia
                     explains, gives background, and comments.
            Margaret: 30 September 1889: Jerry [husband] met the well digger at the train, they
                    drove down about 20 feet broke the pipe four or five feet below the ground have not succeeded in
                    getting it out. We were much surprised indeed by some friends calling on us telling us this was our
                    21 anniversary, 101 ate dinner….
                        Virginia
                    : It sounds as though the men were busy digging a well and no one was
                        expecting company. Of course unannounced visits were much more common before
                        telephones…but it strains the imagination of the modern reader to visualize a house
                        able to accommodate 101 persons for dinner…even though the guests brought the food
                        potluck-style (p. 158–59).
            Edited excerpts from the diaries are grouped topically rather than chronologically. Chapters are
                    grouped under four headings: "Farm," "Home," "Leisure
                    and Culture," and "Community." This arrangement works well, as readers
                    can follow the rhythm of the seasons in the chapter on "Crops" or the worry and
                    sorrow in a chapter on "Health and Home Nursing."
            Such a set of diaries is a mine; different miners would extract different gems. McCormick looked
                    mainly for the role of the farm wife, with special emphasis on the integral part she played in the
                    working farm, the life of the community, and, most important of all, in the farm home. Margaret
                    cared for her husband and children and her aged mother-in-law who lived with them. An analysis  of the farm records shows that her butter-and-egg business
                    produced 25 percent of the farm income each year. Margaret's feelings of contentment and
                    self-worth are evident throughout.
            An introductory chapter sets the background for the diaries, providing genealogical information on
                    the family and geographical information on the county, township, and town near which the Gebbys
                    lived. A short epilogue describes Margaret's life after she ceased to keep her diaries. A
                    glossary and notes, plus interesting illustrations, complete the book. If one must quibble, one
                    could wish for a more coherent arrangement of topics. Further the notes in the back of the book are
                    difficult to integrate into the reading experience. But such a complete set of diaries is priceless,
                    and McCormick's editing has made them easy to read and understand. In an age that seeks
                    either to beatify or to pity the farm housewife of another era, it is refreshing to see a
                    straightforward account of life as it was actually lived.
            ELEANOR ARNOLD is the editor of Memories of Hoosier Homemakers, a series of
                    six books based on a large statewide oral history project. She is currently engaged in editing
                    family materials on early settlement in Indiana.
         
         
            
               Victorian America: Transformations in Everyday Life, 1876—1915. By
                    Thomas J. Schlereth. (
                        New York
                    : Harper Collins Publishers, 1991. Pp. xvi, 363. Illustrations, tables, notes, index.
                    $27.50.)
            The fact that Thomas J. Schlereth describes the period between the 
                        Philadelphia
                     Centennial Exposition and World War I as Victorian and not Progressive speaks volumes
                    about his scholarly intentions, for "Victorian" is a term most closely associated
                    with pure style. It conjures up fuzzy images of rooms—dark, faintly musty
                    ones—crammed to the picture rails with bric-a-brac and stiff horsehair sofas and handmade
                    antimacassars. It attaches itself readily to manners and mores, including fashions in dress that
                    reflected the period's rigid codes of sexual decorum. As the bright young moderns of the
                    1920s used the word, it connoted things that were old-fashioned, quaint, hopelessly stuffy, and
                    un-modern: the ideas and the ethics of their elders were "Victorian" and therefore
                    despicable but so were the brooding, irregular shapes of their houses and self-important public
                    buildings, the exuberant too-muchness of their taste in hotel lobbies and billiard parlors on
                    steamships.
            Progressivism identifies political processes. Victorianism gestures toward the world of objects.
                    Schlereth realizes that material culture holds the key to the era in which a modern mass culture of
                    abundance and consumerism was forged; thus, his text is shaped by a prologue, an interlogue, and an
                    epilogue describing the three great American World's Fairs of the period—
                        Philadelphia
                     (1876), 
                    
                  HOOSIER KITCHEN ADVERTISEMENT HOOSIER KITCHENS, INDIANAPOLIS, INDIANA SATURDAY
                                EVENING POST (1915) Reproduced from Thomas J. Schlereth, Victorian
                                America: Transformations in Everyday Life, 1876–1915 (
                                New York
                            , 1991).
               
                    
                        Chicago
                     (1893), and 
                        San Francisco
                     (1915). These expositions served as showcases for the innovations in transportation,
                    communication, and production that, as much as any changes in ideology or political sentiment,
                    fundamentally altered the ways in which Americans worked, played, shopped, tootled across vast
                    spaces as avid commuters and tourists, and generally went about the business of living an everyday
                    life fundamentally different from anything dreamed of by earlier generations. It is in their cars,
                    their typewriters, their mail-order bungalows, their temperance posters, their department stores,
                    and their time clocks that Schlereth finds the texture and meaning of the American experience at the
                    turning of the last century. As a corrective to the received pieties of conventional
                    men-and-movements history, Victorian America is  valuable; as an account of how ordinary people rushed and staggered and slipped into the future,
                    it is wonderful.
            One could wish for more pictures, for more leisurely analysis of precisely how the object under
                    consideration sheds new light on current debates about the period, but the fault lies with the
                    compact format of the series (on Everyday Life in America) of which the present book is the fourth
                    volume. The reader can only hope that Schlereth will return to his subject soon, on a broader
                    canvas.
            KARAL ANN MARLING teaches American culture and popular culture at the University of
                            
                  Minnesota, Minneapolis
               . Among her recent books are Blue Ribbon: A
                        Social and Pictorial History of the 
                            Minnesota
                         State Fair (1990) and (with John Wetenhall) Iwo Jima: Monuments,
                        Memories, and the American Hero (1991).
         
         
            
               A New Deal for the American People. By Roger Biles. (
                        DeKalb
                    : Northern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1991. Pp. 274. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical essay, index.
                    Clothbound, $28.50; paperbound, $12.00.)
            New Deal scholarship has undergone an interesting change since the 1960s when the New Left indicted
                    it for failing, as Barton J. Bernstein put it, "to transform American society."
                    Recent scholarship has taken a more realistic turn, and younger scholars, who have produced several
                    fine monographs in recent years, have tended to be far less critical. Unlike the New Left
                    revisionists they are evaluating the New Deal in the framework of an extremely conservative American
                    society that would not have tolerated radical change. As Roger Biles notes in his introduction,
                    there is now "an emerging consensus regarding the limitations of New Deal reform and an
                    understanding of the realities of politics and the resistance to change in local and state
                    politics" (p. 3). A New Deal for the American People "mirrors
                    that consensus" (p. 3). The author breaks no new ground in this well-written account of the
                    successes, failures, and limitations of the New Deal. Instead, making use of a prodigious command of
                    secondary sources, he provides a well-written, scholarly overview of the new scholarship.
            Biles's chapter on the relief program is particularly illustrative of the innate
                    conservatism of the American people and their political system. It is easy to condemn the New Deal
                    for doing too little, but many of the states were unwilling to do anything. At the height of the
                    depression six states refused to cooperate with the federal relief program, and Harry Hopkins was
                    forced to federalize their operations. In 1937 nine states, including Indiana, "contributed
                    nothing for relief but paid some administrative costs" (p. 112). With millions out of work
                    in 1935 polls indicated that 60 percent of the American people thought relief spending was too high.
                    One of the most important legacies of the New Deal was the formation of relief agencies by state and
                    local governments. These agencies,  imperfect as they were and
                    are, are now a vital part of the safety net for the poor and the unemployed.
            Biles agrees with the New Left revisionists that the New Deal was neither radical nor revolutionary:
                    "The New Deals’ great achievement was the application of just enough change to
                    preserve the American political economy" (p. 230). He is more willing, however, to give it
                    credit for what it actually accomplished; namely, that it "provided sustenance for millions
                    of people and hope for many more" (p. 226).
            CHARLES J. TULL is professor of history, Indiana University, 
                        South Bend
                    . He is currently writing a history of the 
                        United States
                     Shipping Board in World War I.
         
         
            
               Trapped By Success: The Eisenhower Administration and 
                            Vietnam
                        , 1953–1961. By David L. Anderson. (
                        New York
                    : 
                        Columbia
                     University Press, 1991. Pp. xv, 276. Notes, bibliography, index. $40.00.)
            
               The 
                            Vietnam
                         Wars, 1945–1990. By Marilyn B. Young. (
                        New York
                    : Harper Collins Publishers, 1991. Pp. xiii, 386. Maps, illustrations, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $25.00.)
            Since the end of the 
                        Vietnam
                     War scholars have produced hundreds of books about that conflict; David L. Anderson and
                    Marilyn B. Young have now added two more fine books to the library.
            Anderson aims to examine the role of the Dwight D. Eisenhower administration in the origins of what
                    became a massive American war in the 1960s. The topic has been covered before, especially two of the
                    most important events of 1954—the French defeat at Dienbienphu and the subsequent 
                        Geneva
                     Conference that ended French involvement, divided 
                        Vietnam
                     into two nations, and invited the 
                        United States
                     to increase its involvement in the new nation of 
                        South Vietnam
                    . Anderson's study carefully covers those events and then moves beyond to
                    detail the last half of the 1950s. The author benefited from the opening in 1987 of State
                    Depart-ment documents concerning the second Eisenhower administration.
            Anderson challenges previous commentators who have stated that the Eisenhower administration was
                    prudent in foreign affairs and instead finds those officials a rather unsophisticated group whose
                    views on world events were shaped by the conflict with the 
                        Soviet Union
                    , or a "simple we-they equation" (p. 22). The
                    administration's policy in southeast Asia discounted issues important to local
                    inhabitants—nationalism and the desire for social and economic justice—and
                    concentrated on stopping communism. 
                        United States
                     officials disliked Ho Chi Minh, the French, and 
                        South Vietnam
                    's premier, Ngo Dinh Diem, but in each case they were unable to find
                    alternatives or create a realistic policy in 
                        Vietnam
                    . The  result was that "stop gap measures
                    emerged with little relevance to the historical upheaval in Asia and throughout the Third
                    World" (p. 69).
            Anderson tells a story of intrigue in Saigon and ignorance in 
                        Washington
                    . The 
                        United States
                     could not control a corrupt Diem regime but nevertheless plunged into 
                        South Vietnam
                    , granting large amounts of economic and military aid. The administration's
                    policy was flawed and negative, according to the author, for the president and his advisers deceived
                    themselves about progress and "sought to hold off defeat and wait for a better day with
                    little regard for the internal dynamics of Vietnamese society." In sum, the
                    "Eisenhower administration simply postponed the day of reckoning in 
                        Vietnam
                    " (pp. xiii-xiv). The author has demonstrated that 
                        United States
                     policy in 
                        Vietnam
                     during the 1950s was a prescription for disaster.
            Written in lucid prose, based on judicious research, Anderson's book makes a superb
                    contribution to the understanding of growing 
                        United States
                     involvement in the 
                        Vietnam
                     debacle. This is a tough, realistic assessment from a 
                        Vietnam
                     veteran who, in 1970, was probably wondering how much policymakers in 
                        Washington
                     knew about 
                        Vietnam
                    . By examining official documents a generation after his participation, Anderson is able
                    to answer: "The Eisenhower administration was both the creator and the captive of an
                    illusion in 
                        Vietnam
                    " (p. 208).
            Marilyn B. Young also details the early period of 
                        United States
                     involvement, and much more, for her book is an attempt to trace the 
                        Vietnam
                     wars from 1945 to 1990. This task has been accomplished many times, most successfully
                    by George C. Herring and Stanley Karnow. Young's book aims at the same audience, the
                    educated reader, but it is not a trip down a familiar trail. Young has benefited from numerous
                    memoirs and monographs published during the last decade, and she also introduces new material,
                    especially some fascinating scripts from television programs about the war. Young has also profited
                    from a trip to 
                        Vietnam
                     in 1988, a journey that should be mandatory for future authors writing about that
                    culture and the war.
            The result is a book filled with crisp writing and fresh quotations. Concerning the 1950s the author
                    arrives at conclusions similar to Anderson's relative to the cold war mentality of the
                    Harry S Truman and Eisenhower administrations. "By definition, Communists could not be
                    genuine nationalists; by definition, America supported genuine nationalism. Therefore, those people
                    the 
                        United States
                     supported were nationalists, the rest were Communist stooges" (p. 24). Young
                    reminds readers of how politicians attempted to sell their war to the public and then how presidents
                    John F. Kennedy and Lyndon B. Johnson consistently rejected bad news from those in the war zone in
                    favor of maintaining their own  illusions. As for Richard M.
                    Nixon in 1968: "Secrecy, duplicity, and a ruthless attention to immediate political
                    advantage regardless of larger moral issues marked Nixon's approach to 
                        Vietnam
                     during the campaign; election to the presidency did not change him" (pp.
                    233–34).
            In a sense both of these fine books are an answer to the 1980s idea that the 
                        Vietnam
                     War was a "noble cause." With new sources Anderson and Young again
                    document and detail that it was not.
            TERRY ANDERSON, a 
                        Vietnam
                     veteran, traveled independently in that country in 1987 and 1989. He has written
                    articles on that war and on the 1960s and has authored The 
                            United States
                        , Great Britain and the Cold War, 1944–1947 (1981) and coauthored
                        A Flying Tiger's Diary (1984). He is currently writing The Movement and the Sixties (forthcoming 
                        Oxford
                     University Press) and is associate professor of history, 
                        Texas
                     A&M University, College Station.
         
         
            
               The Rough Road to Renaissance: Urban Revitalization in America,
                    1940–1985. By Jon C. Teaford. (
                        Baltimore
                    : Johns Hopkins University Press, 1990. Pp. x, 383. Tables, illustrations, notes, index.
                    Clothbound, $48.50; paperbound, $16.95.)
            Jon C. Teaford, the author of this fine contribution to Johns Hopkins's Creating the North
                    American Landscape series, advises readers early what is to come; "the following
                    account," he warns, "is not a tale of unremitting triumphs or an unqualified
                    testimonial to the efficacy of well-intentioned public policies" (p. 9). And, indeed, it is
                    not. His survey of attempts to revitalize twelve older central cities in the country's
                    northeastern quadrant (none in Indiana) is, on the whole, decidedly downbeat. While Teaford gives
                    these urban dinosaurs credit for occasional accomplishments, and for adapting to new circumstances,
                    he does not believe that terms such as "renaissance" and
                    "rebirth" accurately describe the history of the nation's snowbelt cities
                    in the years since World War II. He concludes by observing that urban panaceas are still much in
                    demand and that in the late 1980s "the concept of renaissance still charmed policymakers
                    ready to continue the journey along the road toward that elusive goal" (p. 313).
            In his first chapter Teaford quotes a realtor who warned in 1941 that the nation's chief
                    urban problem was the "undue acceleration of population flight away from city centers
                    causing rot and decay at their cores." The remainder of the book is, in large measure, an
                    extended gloss on that comment. The concern of the 1940s, that "decentralization appeared
                    to be a close ally of blight" (p. 13), proved to be the case, and Teaford shows that
                    attempts first to reverse the trend, and later to deal with its consequences, have been only
                    marginally successful. Space constraints prohibit a thorough summary of his wide-ranging,
                    well-documented discussion, which is spiced with numerous examples and case studies. Suffice  it to say that he touches on the major topics that one would
                    expect: infrastructure and transportation developments; urban politics, especially the declining
                    influence of parties; changing patterns of retailing and manufacturing; neighborhood revitalization
                    (or its absence); metropolitan finance; and public-private partnerships for urban advancement (new
                    jargon, as Teaford correctly notes, for an old activity).
            One need not live in the cities on which Teaford focuses in order to profit from this study. His
                    themes are large ones, and few metropolitan residents will fail to find here topics and examples
                    that resonate with their own experiences. (It is, for example, difficult for someone who has lived
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                     during the past fifteen or twenty years not to experience a shock of recognition when
                    encountering a chapter entitled "Messiah Mayors and the Gospel of Urban Hype.")
                    Urban historians will want to be familiar with this book; college and university libraries where
                    urban history or urban planning are taught will want to add it to their collections; and
                    professional city planners and promoters will find here a perspective that should moderate their
                    more extravagant projections and promises.
            ROBERT G. BARROWS teaches history, occasionally American urban history, at Indiana
                    University—Purdue University 
                        Indianapolis
                    , where he is also managing editor of the Encyclopedia of 
                            Indianapolis
                        . He is working on a study of 
                        Evansville
                    's Albion Fellows Bacon.
         
         
            
               Sense of Place: American Regional Cultures. Edited by Barbara Allen and Thomas
                    J. Schlereth. (
                        Lexington
                    : University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1990. Pp. 213. Maps, illustrations, notes. $28.00.)
            
               Sense of Place is a readable collection of essays dealing with regional
                    consciousness in the 
                        United States
                    . In her introduction coeditor Barbara Allen succinctly surveys regional American folk
                    culture studies, and in his concluding essay coeditor Thomas J. Schlereth places regional studies
                    within the broader context of American culture studies. In some ways Schlereth's essay
                    serves as a better introduction than a conclusion, for he identifies common concerns, such as
                    violence, in the essays; and he observes that several of the essayists "are more interested
                    in defining regional consciousness than regional culture" (p. 170).
            In an excellent lead essay dealing with European-American traditions of the American West, Barre
                    Toelken has important things to say about the relation of folklore and history. Through the
                    examination of a widespread legend, he aptly shows that vernacular expressions may be more important
                    to an understanding of a region than written documents and concludes that "any historical
                    or cultural analysis which leaves out the vernacular material 
                    will simply provide an inaccurate, incomplete account of cultural reality" (p. 27).
            Citing oral and written tornado "stories" from the Midwest, Larry Danielson
                    illustrates the impact of weather on the development of regional consciousness. While Danielson
                    identifies common qualities in tornado narratives from a broad geographical area, Mary Hufford
                    focuses on a traditional boat used for duck hunting in the Pine Barrens of southern 
                        New Jersey
                    ; and in her intensive study she deals as much with traditions of family, gender, and
                    occupation as with traditions of a region, showing clearly the symbiotic relations of various folk
                    groups within a regional context.
            Erika Brady's contribution on trapping and regional identity in the 
                        Missouri
                     Ozarks is similar to Hufford's essay in that it deals with a hunting/trapping
                    tradition; however, Brady deals more with historical and political contexts than with a particular
                    traditional artifact that can be identified as regional. Some of the same kinds of familial
                    relations are suggested by both authors, though, and Brady echoes common regional themes in the
                    essays: desire for autonomy and aversion to outsiders’ interference. Barbara Allen, in
                    "The Genealogical Landscape and the Southern Sense of Place," also successfully
                    ties family to region in developing the southern sense of place.
            Polly Stewart does a good job of establishing 
                        Maryland
                    's Eastern Shore as a folk region and in analyzing her material makes good use
                    of Bill Jansen's esoteric-exoteric factor in folklore; however, in discussing historical
                    narratives of a lynching, she sloughs off the comparative method. On the other hand, Richard Myer,
                    in his excellent essay, "Image and Identity in 
                        Oregon
                    's Pioneer Cemeteries," examines common Victorian gravestone
                    iconography before concentrating on unique motifs and epitaphs dealing with westward migration and
                    pioneer life on 
                        Oregon
                     gravestones.
            John M. Coggeshall's essay on 
                        Egypt
                    , in southern 
                        Illinois
                    , demonstrates that much of what has been considered regional folklore is actually
                    ethnic folklore, and he also shows that a common occupation, mining, can help bring diverse ethnic
                    groups together. His emphasis, though, leans toward ethnic diversity rather than regional identity
                    shared through common traditions such as regional speech and local legends.
            Charles A. Martin, in "Creative Constraints in the Folk Arts of Appalachia," and
                    William E. Lightfoot, in "A Regional Music Style: The Legacy of Arnold Shultz,"
                    are interested in the relationship between artist and cultural context. Lightfoot's essay
                    is a model for regional folklore studies. He traces the development of a particular regional trait,
                    Travis picking, within the context of the historic, physiographic, cultural, and socioeconomic
                    regional forces that shaped this regional musical style.
            
            Schlereth points out that "area studies (national and regional) are usually done best not in
                    a historical or geographical vacuum, but in a cross-cultural and comparative perspective"
                    (p. 168). Some of the essays in the collection would have benefited from a comparative perspective
                    by first acknowledging similarities in folk cultures before enumerating regional differences, but on
                    the whole this book is an important contribution to the study of regional cultures. Any collection
                    of essays by eleven different writers will suffer some of the same problems of inconsistency in
                    orientation as well as in style, but these are minor problems in this useful anthology.
            RONALD L. BAKER, chairperson and professor of English, Indiana State University, 
                        Terre Haute
                    , is the author of Folklore in the Writings of Rowland E. Robinson
                    (1973), Indiana Place Names (1975), Hoosier Folk Legends (1982),
                        Jokelore: Humorous Folktales from Indiana (1986), French Folklife
                        in 
                            Old Vincennes
                        
                (1989), and numerous articles in folklore journals. He is the editor of two
                    journals, Midwestern Folklore and The Folklore Historian, and a
                    monograph, The Study of Place Names (1991).
         
         
            
               From Sea Charts to Satellite Images: Interpreting North American History through
                        Maps. Edited by David Buisseret. (
                        Chicago
                    : University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 1990. Pp. xvi, 324. Bibliographies, illustrations, maps, appendix, index.
                    Paperbound, $24.95.)
            This book stems from two summer institutes funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities at the
                    Newberry Library in 
                        Chicago
                     to help history professors learn how to use maps as documents rather than as mere
                    illustrations in their teaching and research. Nine contributors have written twelve substantive
                    chapters. Each chapter has an essay describing a particular type of map and a set of selected maps
                    with commentaries; but the maps are segregated at the end of each chapter, and the necessity of
                    constantly flipping back and forth between text and maps becomes tiresome.
            The idea of matching old and more recent maps has intriguing possibilities that some authors exploit
                    nicely. Because some of the matches require careful study, however, comparison is not facilitated
                    when identifying letters on the maps do not correlate with those in the text (p. 151) or when they
                    have been left off the map completely (p. 253).
            Some authors understood the necessity of using only excerpts of large maps, of zooming in for
                    close-ups so to speak. Far too many of the maps, however, have been reduced so much that they are
                    virtually illegible even under magnification, and half-tone printing does not permit as much
                    magnification as many of the maps require.
            
            The first half of the book is disappointing, except for Louis DeVorsey's chapter, because it
                    merely talks about maps instead of showing what one can do with them. Few teachers, for example,
                    will find much value in discussions of early mapmakers and the maps they made or in descriptions of
                    rare maps they will never be able to see. A chapter on landscape paintings seems out of place in a
                    book about maps, and it is not clear why the editor elected to include two colored plates of Hull
                    House maps when one would have been quite adequate and both are virtually ignored in the text. One
                    wonders also about using a precious color plate in a book about maps to reproduce only the cover,
                    however colorful, of a state highway map.
            The book begins to come to life in the second half, perhaps because during the last part of the
                    nineteenth century there are far more maps to choose from but mainly because the authors seem to
                    have understood their assignment better. Here they include examples that show how scholars and
                    teachers have actually used maps as documents rather than as mere illustrations.
            JOHN FRASER HART, professor of geography at the University of 
                  Minnesota, Minneapolis
               ,
                    has recently published The Land That Feeds Us (1991) and has edited Our Changing
                    Cities (1991). He is currently working on Reading the Land.
            
         
         
            
               Sources for U. S. History: Nineteenth-Century Communities. By W. B. Stephens.
                            (
                  Cambridge, England
               : 
                        Cambridge
                     University Press, 1991. Pp. xviii, 558. Notes, index. $75.00.)
            The in-depth study of American communities has been in vogue for professional historians for many
                    years as part of the new social history, but, according to W. B. Stephens, "local
                    history" has largely continued to be based too heavily on anecdote and tradition and not
                    enough on fact. Stephens has provided an essential guide for both academic and lay historians who
                    wish to explore nineteenth-century community history. While the book deals specifically with sources
                    for the previous century, many of the works mentioned have equivalents for other periods, and the
                    methodologies are applicable regardless.
            The book begins with a lengthy overview of primary and secondary, published and unpublished sources.
                    Subsequent chapters deal with specific sources available for exploring broad subject areas:
                    demography; ethnicity and race; the land, settlement, and farming; religion; local government,
                    politics, and organized labor; manufacturing, mining, and business activity; maritime activity,
                    communications, and the fur trade; education; and poverty, health, and crime. Areas specifically
                    excluded by the author are: military history; parts of America before they became states; technical
                    subjects such as archaeology and geology; cultural life; oral history; and artifactual evidence.
            
            While one may regret some of the areas excluded, Stephens covers his chosen areas thoroughly, and his
                    recommendations of sources are often paired with caveats about their limitations or ideas about how
                    they might be used in conjunction with other sources. At the front of the book is a list of the
                    ninety-nine sources he considers basic to community research, but there are references to literally
                    hundreds more throughout the text. They range from those heavily used, including census records and
                    city directories, to those apt to be unfamiliar to most researchers, such as mortgage records and
                    obscure government document series.
            Stephens presents his information in narrative form, necessitating very heavy footnoting. While many
                    researchers might prefer an annotated bibliography, most will be more than satisfied with the wide
                    range of materials the author discusses. The book has a few surprising oversights—such as
                    a failure to mention John Reps's Views and Viewmakers of Urban America
                    (1984) in a discussion of bird's-eye views—and includes some outdated addresses
                    from which certain sources can be obtained. In addition, the price will prevent many from adding the
                    book to their personal libraries. The book's defects are minor, however, compared to the
                    excellent resource the author has provided for the study of local and community history.
            LEIGH DARBEE is curator of printed collections at the Indiana Historical Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . She is currently working on a bibliography of the society's books and maps
                    printed through the year 1840.
         
         
            
               A Primer for Local Historical Societies. By Laurence R. Pizer. Second edition. (
                        Nashville
                    , Tenn.: American Association for State and Local History, 1991. Pp. x, 122.
                    Illustrations, appendixes, index. Paperbound, $16.95.)
            For many who work in the vineyards of state and local history, Dorothy Weyer Creigh's A Primer for Local Historical Societies, published in 1976, was like a stone
                    hitting the still waters of a quiet pond. The waves created by the impact of this small volume
                    spread far and wide. The country was in the midst of a bicentennial, and many communities were
                    looking at their own local heritage with an eye toward "starting a local historical
                    society."
            The 
                        Adams County
                     Historical Society, Hastings, 
                        Nebraska
                    , was in a similar quandary in the mid-1960s when a group of individuals decided to
                    publish a centennial history of the county. Dorothy Weyer Creigh, a native of Hastings, stepped
                    forward and agreed to serve as the project director. One project led to another, and before long the 
                        Adams County
                     group began to receive recognition as a model for the preservation and promotion of its
                    local history. The numerous calls from around 
                        Nebraska
                     and across the  country prompted Creigh and other
                    members of the society to put their experience in writing.
            In the preface to the first edition Creigh writes, "This book is written for the historical
                    society which, like ours, is short on money, but long on enthusiasm, imagination, and
                    ingenuity." Laurence R. Pizer, author of this second edition, has happily continued this
                    important format. Pizer, director of the Pilgrim Society, 
                  Plymouth, Massachusetts
               ,
                    who served as the first executive director of the 
                        Adams County
                     group, has applied his administrative background as well as experience on the local
                    society level to produce a text that is somewhat tighter and less folksy than the Creigh
                    publication. Whereas Creigh, an editor by vocation, was writing from firsthand experience and felt a
                    need to elaborate, Pizer, the administrator, is more straightforward and matter-of-fact.
            Both authors walk the reader through the necessary steps from the first organizational meeting to the
                    important matters of developing a mission statement, preparing the bylaws and constitution, and
                    financing. Also covered are publicity, use of volunteers, and suggested "first
                    projects" that can be started on a limited budget. Much of the remainder of the book
                    discusses the variety of programs and projects that a local society may want to develop. These
                    include: establishing a museum (almost always the first desire of a group), beginning an oral
                    history program, erecting historical markers, planning tours, establishing a local history library,
                    preserving buildings, and publishing.
            Missing in this second edition are the suggested readings and technical how-to sources following each
                    of Creigh's chapters. The tremendous changes that have taken place in the field of state
                    and local history since the 1970s may well have occasioned this omission. Many of the technical
                    leaflets mentioned in the first edition are either out of date or out of print. Pizer does add a
                    brief conclusion that he titles "The History Connection," in which he stresses two
                    very important points: the need for planning, as the key to success, and the need for maintaining
                    professional standards. Three appendixes list names and addresses of state and provincial groups,
                    regional branches of the National Archives, and criteria for placing sites or districts on the
                    National Register of Historic Places.
            The American Association for State and Local History, as publishers, and Pizer, as editor, are to be
                    commended for revising this excellent and invaluable publication.
            THOMAS KRASEAN is director, Field Services Division, Indiana Historical Society, 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He has worked with local historical societies in Indiana since 1965 and is presently
                    serving as state and regional chair for the American Association for State and Local History Awards
                    Program, which has been presenting awards for excellence to local societies since the
                1940s.
         
         
         
            Review Notices
            
               The Miami, 
                            Wabash
                        , and Erie Canal Country: An American Heritage. By Harry G. Black. (
                        Hammond
                    , Ind.: HMB Publications, 1991. Pp. 109. Illustrations, maps, bibliography. Paper-bound,
                    $7.50, plus $1.05 postage. Order from HMB Publications, 7406 
                        Monroe
                     Avenue, 
                        Hammond
                    , IN 46324.) This volume guides the traveler along the route of one of
                    Indiana's most historic artifacts. From Fort 
                        Wayne
                     to 
                        Evansville
                     there are locks, culverts, towpaths, and historic markers to entice and instruct. Harry
                    G. Black's enthusiastic guide, nicely illustrated, will provide useful assistance. James H. 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana University 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The History of 
                            Warren
                         Township. Second edition. Edited by Herbert M. Korra and Wendy W. Paige;
                    graphics and design by Wilma F. Taylor. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : 
                        Warren
                     Central High School, 1992. Pp. 332. Illustrations, maps, figures, appendixes,
                    bibliography, index. Paperbound, $15.00, plus postage. Order from Wendy Paige, 
                        Warren
                     Central High School, 9500 East 16th Street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , IN 46229.) This nicely done volume is the work of dedicated teachers and many students
                    at 
                        Warren
                     Central, much of it on their own time. They conducted extensive oral history interviews
                    and gathered other kinds of information about the community and particularly the schools. Included
                    in the collection is a very interesting chapter on school desegregation and school busing in 
                        Marion
                     County as it has affected 
                        Warren
                     Central. James H. 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana University 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               Jefferson Proving Ground Memories. (
                        Madison
                    , Ind.: U. S. Army Ammunition Test Center, 1991. Pp. [92]. Illustrations, maps.
                    Paperbound, $6.00, plus $1.56 postage. Order from Public Affairs Office, U. S.
                    Army Ammunition Test Center, 
                        Madison
                    , IN 47250–5100.) This work was assembled by employees of Jefferson Proving
                    Ground for the base's fiftieth anniversary. It contains a short summary of the
                    facility's history with special emphasis on the controversy over the government's
                    decision to close the base by 1995. Most of the work, however, is taken up with historical pictures
                    of the base, photographs of present-day and past employees and commanders, and snapshots of farms
                    and churches that occupied the base area before the land was taken by the army beginning in
                    December,  1940. Undoubtedly, the book will be of interest
                    primarily to former employees and their families. Thomas E. Rodgers, University of
                        Southern Indiana, 
                            Evansville
                        .
            
            
               Regional Studies: The Interplay of Land and People. Edited by Glen E. Lich.
                    (College Station: 
                        Texas
                     A&M University Press, 1992. Pp. xiii, 181. Notes, maps, tables.
                    $32.50.) The dozen essays in this book provide a very good introduction to some of the
                    best scholarship in what the editor calls "the new regional studies." Historians,
                    folklorists, geographers, and literary scholars examine in theoretical and place-specific essays the
                    many meanings of region. James H. 
                            Madison
                        , Indiana University 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
            
               The Church of God: A Social History.1 By Mickey Crews. (
                        Knoxville
                    : University of 
                        Tennessee
                     Press, 1990. Pp. xvi, 252. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $32.50.) Scholars of American religion should welcome any denominational history that
                    does not lose itself in the study of institutions. Crews sets out to look at common beliefs and
                    practices of one Pentecostal group, the Church of God, 
                  Cleveland, Tennessee
               , and he
                    frequently succeeds. The introductory and closing chapters, unfortunately, are poorly organized, and
                    the church's history is scattered in bits and pieces through the book. The persevering
                    reader will discover interesting and valuable information on the ways in which Church of God members
                    separated themselves from the larger culture and the changes that occurred as the people of this
                    denomination, as in other Pentecostal groups, gradually moved into the middle class. Dawn Bakken, Indiana University 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
         
         
            News from the Indiana State Archives
            The Indiana Friends of the Archives (IFA) held its annual meeting on February 26, 1992. Dene B.
                    Stratton of Camby was elected treasurer. Newly elected members of the board of directors are William
                    J. Doherty, professor of history at Marian College, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Ralph D. Gray, professor of history at Indiana University-Purdue University 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            James E. Farmer, president of the IFA, reported that more than forty-five individuals have become
                    charter members. Inquiries about membership may be addressed to Indiana Friends of the Archives, 117
                    State Library and Historical Building, 140 North Senate Avenue, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana 46204.
            In July, 1992, the IFA and the Indiana Historical Bureau jointly published a second printing of View from the State House: Recollections and Reflections, 1961–1965.
                    This reprinting of former Governor Matthew E. Welsh's book recognized the rarity of the
                    work documenting watershed developments in state government by the principal figure in the
                    developments.
            The IFA has recruited three volunteers to help the Archives reduce its processing backlog. Wendy
                    Gillette of 
                        Indianapolis
                     is working five hours a week on an inventory of territorial records. Her information
                    will be put on a database to facilitate searches by name, document, agency, and subject. Anne L.
                    Rodick of Blooming-ton is devoting one day a week to preparing a database for nineteenth-century
                    court records from 
                        Posey County
                    . Earl J. Anderson of 
                        Indianapolis
                     has begun microfilming fragile and deteriorating Archives documents. Among those
                    already filmed are the muster rolls of the Battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     (1811), 
                        Marion
                     County Will Books A and B (1822–1855), Veterans’ Enrollments for 
                        Marion
                     County (1886) and 
                        Randolph County
                     (1894), and additional Fort 
                        Wayne
                     land records and Ku Klux Klan materials.
            The Archives staff has prepared several displays during the past year. These included a history of
                    the Indiana State Fair; an exhibit of materials from the files of the War History Commission
                    designed to commemorate the fiftieth anniversary of World War II; and documents relating to crime in
                    Indiana.
            Recent acquisitions of the State Archives include:
            FRANCIS OTWELL CIVIL WAR COLLECTION, 1861–1866. 86 documents.
            
            Baker and Daniels, an 
                        Indianapolis
                     law firm, donated funds to the Indiana Friends of the Archives to purchase a valuable
                    collection of Civil War documents formerly belonging to Francis Otwell of 
                        Bloomington
                    , an officer in the 27th Regiment of Indiana Volunteers, 1861–1862, and the
                    Veteran Reserve Corps, 1863–1866. The collection consists mainly of muster rolls, morning
                    reports, and clothing and ordnance returns of the 94th Company, 2nd Battalion, Veteran Reserve
                    Corps, stationed at 
                        Indianapolis
                     under Otwell's command. Among other duties men of this company guarded Camp
                    Morton, the Confederate prisoner-of-war camp. Records relating to Camp Morton are very scarce.
            Conrad Baker, an early partner in Baker and Daniels and Indiana governor from 1867 to 1873, figures
                    prominently in the collection because he was assistant provost marshal general of Indiana. Many
                    soldiers from Otwell's command were detailed to Baker's office to assist in
                    enforcing the draft and arresting deserters.
            After the documents were cleaned and mended, they were displayed at a reception hosted by Baker and
                    Daniels. The collection is housed permanently with the other Civil War documents in the Archives.
            INDIANA LINCOLN UNION. One half cubic foot. Minutes of the Executive Committee, 1926–1943;
                    financial records, 1932–1954; designs for the Nancy Hanks Lincoln Memorial; miscellaneous
                    correspondence of Richard Lieber and his secretary, Florence G. Ernsting. Gift of Jack Lieber
                    Ernsting, Greenwood, Indiana.
            INDIANA EMPLOYMENT SECURITY DIVISION. Labor Market Development Reports, 1941–1974. 130
                    volumes. Comprehensive surveys of selected Indiana labor markets including detailed information on
                    employment of women and minorities especially during World War II.
            LAKE COUNTY NATURALIZATIONS, 1906–1932. 10 cubic feet. Declarations of Intention,
                    Petitions, Certificates of Naturalization.
            KU KLUX KLAN. One cubic foot. Previously unprocessed material from the case files of the Indiana
                    attorney general. Includes briefs, depositions, correspondence, investigative reports, and
                    contemporary books and articles relating to D. C. Stephenson and the Ku Klux Klan.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
      
   
