
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 72, Issue 3, pages 189-290. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:72+issue:3+year:1976&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            "Down in the Hills o' 
                        Brown County
                    ": Photographs by Frank M. Hohenberger
            Lorna Lutes Sylvester∗
            
            In a recent study of the development of documentary photography in the 1930s, F. Jack Hurley credited
                    the historical section of the Farm Security Administration, a part of Franklin D.
                    Roosevelt's New Deal, with creating a "portrait of a decade." Under the
                    directorship of Section Chief Roy Stryker the FSA presented in photographs the agency's
                    primary function of administering farm relief against the background of American life as a whole.
                    The professional photographers of the historical section depicted, among many other things, black
                    sharecroppers in the 
                        South, California
                    's migrant workers, drought stricken farms in the 
                        West, Chicago
                     slums, small town life in 
                        Pie Town
                    , 
                        New Mexico
                    , and glimpses of the Midwest's rural poor. The result of their work was an
                    unprecedented photographic record of the milieu in which the governmental agency performed its
                        duties.1
            
            Before, during, and after the existence of the historical section of the Farm Security
                    Administration, Frank M. Hohenberger was producing a similar kind of photographic record of life in
                    the hill country of southern Indiana—particularly in 
                        Brown County
                    . Hohenberger would not have considered himself a documentary photographer, and in a
                    technical sense he probably was not. Yet his pictures of the 
                  
                     ∗ Lorna Lutes Sylvester, associate editor of the Indiana Magazine of History, was born in 
                                Brown County
                            , Indiana, and has since resided in it or neighboring counties. Especial thanks
                            are extended to the staffs of the Lilly Library, particularly Mrs. Wilma Etnier, and Indiana
                            University Publications, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , for their help in the preparation of this article, which is the third in a
                            series about Frank M. Hohenberger and his photographs. For the preceding articles see Lorna
                            Lutes Sylvester, " ‘Down in the Hills o' 
                                Brown County
                            ’: Photographs by Frank M. Hohenberger," Indiana Magazine of History, LXXI (September, 1975), 205–44; and ibid., LXXII (March, 1976), 21–62.
                  
                     1 F. Jack Hurley, Portrait of a Decade: Roy Stryker and
                                the Development of Documentary Photography in the Thirties (
                                Baton Rouge
                            , 1972), 54, passim.
                  
               
                     people among whom he lived in 
                        Brown
                     and neighboring counties and of their homes, villages, crafts, and work constitute a
                    unique portrait of one segment of American life as it developed throughout four decades.
            The 
                        Brown County
                     to which Hohenberger came in 1917 retained much of the isolation and self sufficiency
                    reminiscent of the frontier era in Indiana's history.2 The rugged
                    terrain with its V-shaped valleys and steep divides made travel difficult; with the exception of the
                    narrow bottom lands along the major streams, the soil was unsuitable for agriculture;3 and the majority of the residents were poor, subsistence hill farmers who were still
                    proficient in many of the same crafts that their pioneer ancestors had brought to the county in the
                    midnineteenth century. Despite inadequate transportation facilities a few industries did
                    develop—sawmills, tanneries, hooppole and broom making establishments, potteries. These
                    were, however, generally small, dependent upon the county's limited natural resources, and
                    related to the crafts or household processes of the residents.4
            
            The apparent simplicity of this pioneer kind of life appealed to Hohenberger. Shortly after his
                    arrival in 
                        Brown County
                     he described 
                        Nashville
                    , the county seat and his new home, to friends and scoffers who did not believe that he
                    would continue to live there. It was, he wrote, "a village nestling in the valley of
                    peace" where he had found the "restfulness that brings inspiration."5 The opalescent haze which softened the rough terrain, the rustic log
                    cabin—or more often the dilapidated shack—crouched against the hillside, 
                  
                     2 For a discussion of when and why Hohenberger came to 
                                Brown County
                            , as well as additional information about him, see Frank M. Hohenberger diary,
                            [66], Hohenberger Collection (Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            ); Webb Waldron, "He Quit His Job; Took a Train—,"
                                American Magazine, CXVI (October, 1933), 104; Sylvester, "
                            ‘Down in the Hills o' 
                                Brown County
                            ,’ " LXXI, 205–14.
                  
                     3 Alton A. Lindsey, ed., Natural Features of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1966), 45.
                  
                     4 Histories of 
                                Brown County
                             are few. Of the ones which do exist, most are sketchy and incomplete; some are
                            frequently biased or inaccurate. See Charles Blanchard, ed., Counties of
                                Morgan, 
                                    Monroe
                                , and 
                                    Brown
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1884); Genevieve Burger, "A Social and Economic Survey of 
                                Brown County
                            " (B.S. thesis, School of Commerce and Finance, Indiana University,
                            1926); Ray Mathis, "A History of 
                                Brown County
                            ," (M.A. thesis, Department of History, Indiana University, 1936);
                            Benjamin Wallace Douglass, The New Deal Comes to 
                                    Brown County
                                
                      (
                                Garden City
                            , N.Y., 1936). For Hohenberger's own history of 
                                Brown County
                             see Frank M. Hohenberger, Down in the Hills o' 
                                    Brown County
                                
                      (privately printed, 1952).
                  
                     5 Hohenberger, Down in the Hills o' 
                                    Brown County
                                , foreword.
               
                     the homemade quilts drying on the clothesline, the hooppole
                    cutter, the fox hunter, the peddler who made periodic trips throughout the county—all
                    were subjects Hohenberger could not resist. If the resulting photographs presented a life somewhat
                    more idyllic than actually existed, they only occasionally descended to the pictorially romantic.
                    The poverty, pain, hard work, pride, and stubbornness—whether Hohenberger intended it or
                    not—were evident in his pictures too.
            With the advent of the automotive era following World War I 
                        Brown County
                     began to emerge from its pioneer confines. Residents began to realize that their
                    greatest natural resource was the beauty of their hills and that tourism was their major
                        industry.6 The changes, however, came gradually. As late as the mid-1930s
                    local and county roads remained at best gravel, at worst dirt. Although 
                        Brown
                     Countians might work in factories in neighboring counties, they still farmed, and they
                    continued to can, quilt, make their own butter, and trade eggs for their groceries. Many families
                    heated their homes with wood which they cut themselves, read by a "coal oil"
                    light, and did much of their shopping from "Monky Ward" or "Sears and
                    Sawbuck" catalogs. It took the economic and social revolution resulting from World War II
                    to push more rapidly 
                        Brown County
                    's transformation to a modern society. The hundreds of tourists became
                    thousands, new residents moved in, and the "natives" suddenly were forced to
                    struggle to retain the rustic, peaceful simplicity of their former lives.
            Hohenberger spent most of his time in 
                        Brown County
                     from his arrival there in 1917 until his death in 1963. He saw the county through
                    "flu" epidemics, "bobbed" hair, prohibition, women's
                    suffrage, the depression, the Ku Klux Klan, and two world wars.7 He photographed
                    the changes which came to southern Indiana during his almost four decades in the area: automobiles
                    bumper to bumper entering 
                        Nashville
                     on an autumn day, the souvenir shops to which the tourists came, veterans in their
                    uniforms, do it yourself mechanics fixing their cars at home. He also caught the static quality of
                    the 
                        Brown County
                     hills: the corner drugstore, the 
                  
                     6 For a sample of Hohenberger's comments concerning the
                            increasing influx of tourists to 
                                Brown County
                             see Hohenberger diary, [123], [251], Hohenberger Collection.
                  
                     7 Examples of Hohenberger's comments concerning these items
                            can be found in ibid., [59], [59–61], [71–72],
                            [119], [227], [263], [302–303], [306–13], [321], [338].
               
                     barefooted boy on his way to the fishin' hole, his
                    female counterpart picking flowers in the fields, the Henry Cross road marker at Stonehead.
                    Hohenberger came to 
                        Brown County
                     in the first place, he said, because he had a hunch that there was something down there
                    that he could do well. He was right, and he prospered.8
            
            In differentiating between two styles of serious still photography, one author has written of the
                    first: "There are those who insist that the proper use of the camera is to explore the
                    inner reaches of man's mind, his ideas and his ideals."9
                    Hohenberger placed himself in this category when he stated: "I was interested in characters
                    and types…. The thing that fascinated me was the way character stood out in the faces of
                    these people. The job that interested me was to get that character onto a photographic
                        plate."10 Many of Hohenberger's pictures, however,
                    approach the second, or documentary, style of still photography—a style in which the
                    photographer has "preferred to turn the camera outward and use it as a means of
                    understanding man and his environment." In the hands of a mature artist "the
                    documentary style of photograph may laugh or cry, or do both. It may teach; it may provide a
                    negative reaction. But whatever else, a good documentary photograph is never neutral. It has a point
                    of view."11 Hohenberger was a mature and masterful artist, and few will
                    view his pictures dispassionately. Historians, economists, sociologists, writers, museum
                    curators—all will find his collection of photographs a priceless document of life in one
                    small, "arrested frontier" area of the Middle West during the 1920s, 1930s, and
                    1940s. Those who lived in and who can remember the 
                        Brown County
                     hills "back when" and those who would like to recapture this earlier
                    era will find his pictures perfect illustrations for their memories.12
            
            
               
                  8 Waldron, "He Quit His Job; Took a Train,"
                        104–105.
               
                  9 Hurley, Portrait of a Decade, vii.
               
                  10 Waldron, "He Quit His Job; Took a Train," 104.
               
                  11 Hurley, Portrait of a Decade, vii.
               
                  12 All of the pictures which have been used in this article are located in
                        the Hohenberger Collection in the Lilly Library, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        . No attempt was made to identify the subjects of all photographs. Captions and
                        quotations were taken from the Hohenberger diary or from notations made on the pictures in the
                        Hohenberger Collection. Quotations taken from the Hohenberger diary were selected because of
                        their interest or seeming relevance not because they identified or described any particular
                        person or picture. Entries from the diary have been standardized, and typographical errors
                        therein have been corrected in order to make the captions more readable.
            
            
            
               A MADONNA OF THE (BROWN COUNTY) HILLS
               
            
            
            
            
            
               A FULL LINE OF OLD TIME PATTERNS
               
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            "Griffith and I visited Winfield Richards on Bear creek the afternoon of November 3/27. He
                    is 80 years old and has panned gold on Bear creek, lick and the head of Salt creek. One young man
                    picked up a piece that weighed to the value of $11.25 and was offered $25 by
                    the state geologist, John Cox. Biggest piece ever picked up by Richards brought $1.10.
                    Always worked after a rain and made the trips with horse and buggy. … Richards a brother
                    of Angeline Victor, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Had rockers and sluice boxes. Found as high as five colors (meaning flakes) in a
                    single pan" [470].
            
            
               GOLD PANNER ON SALT CREEK, WORKING THE ROCKER
               
            
            
            
               "Hoop-pole cutters busy now as this will be the last month before the sap runs. Can get
                        all the shavings you want for nothing. Farmers haul more away than the town folks"
                        [24].
            
            
            "August 21, 1924, Bowen Sims and I left here at 9:15 to have an interview with Joe Bohall
                    and family off of the Story-Elkinsville road. Arrived there at 10:20. The road after we left James
                    Wilkerson's was merely a path through the weeds. Tall grass in the center. Numerous creek
                    fords, very topsy-turvy at places. Only one road to follow and you couldn't get lost and no
                    need of worrying about having to turn out for another car. Drove right up to the big gate. At first
                    one boy's head appeared, then we found Joe on the porch, and his wife came out to see who
                    might be there. Finally Bill, the basket weaving assistant arrived and the crowd was all
                    represented. Went to the old dingy looking stable where the workrooms were. At the left were several
                    horses munching the hay and on the right was a cow looking rather inquisitive. Joe posed with
                    baskets and then Bill pulled some splints through the holes cut in an old crosscut saw blade. 5
                    sizes of holes. White oak is used exclusively. Splints 6 feet long for small baskets and 7 1/2 feet
                    long for bushel size. They live on what is known as May Branch, where John Sherrill was born. Joe is
                    a cousin of Sherrill's. Joe has been making baskets since he was a kid. Is now 53 years
                    old. Probably learned the art from his father, James, who lived on the Muscatatuck in 
                        Jackson county
                     a long time. Joe born in 
                        Brown County
                    . He said William Lewis, of Walnut street, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , was here at his house last Sunday to get some of the splints to experiment in
                    furniture making. Joe has lived in this house for fifteen years. He never has any family fights but
                    his wife said once in a while they do some loud talking. Joe was afraid we were making pictures to
                    have others make fun of. Grover David said he at one time had 450 baskets in his loft and sold them
                    the following tourist season. Joe brings in about 100 a month. The boy makes two small sizes and
                    gets the splints ready in a day. The father makes his splints and two bushel baskets in a day. The
                    timber is carried on the shoulders of the family from the hillsides. No superstition about having
                    the women folks learn the art. It was decreed by the fathers that they would learn the sons only as
                    they were afraid others would get next to the art and competition would mean drop in prices. Joe
                    gets 60 cents for the small size. Jim Frost, Berg's father, west of town, also weaved
                    splint baskets" [350–51].
            
            
            
            "Joe Bohall and son Billie called on me the morning of August 29, 1924. He said about
                    learning the trade that he wouldn't take no showin'. Said knowed for knew. Made
                    baskets with two strips to start with. Henry Hovis an old weaver still alive—works some
                    where between 
                        Houston
                     and Freetown. 20 and 24 splints used in starting. Levi Bohall taught John Turpin on
                    David's branch. In making the splints an ax, then a knife and finally a frow is used. Then
                    a boy Joe made a basket and got a pair of boots with the money. It was made of hickory and he says
                    it was a ‘shiner.’ Platting is hard on fingers. His wife used to plat. Anna
                    Shipley was a basket weaver. Only one out of 600 who don't get their fingers hurt. When the
                    splints or finished basket become dry and slick they are sprinkled in order to facilitate the
                    weaving. … Lou Hovis was also a weaver—now dead. Splinters in fingers. Can
                    pull 100 splints in an hour. Mrs. Bohall used to do that part of the work. He said he would have
                    asked us to stay for dinner the day Bowen Sims and I were there but he didn't know it was
                    so late. ‘Wanted his pickter tuck’" [352].
            
            
            
            
               "ALEX MULLIS—Visited him in the afternoon of March 11/27 with
                    Oliver Neal. He had 2500 clapboards ready for Governor Jackson's cabin. He furnished the
                    lumber and did all the work for $30. These were of black oak. He gave illustration of
                    riving. Says he can make 2,000 a day. They are 26 inches long and from 4 to 6 inches wide. Has been
                    making them for 40 years. Roofs with his shingles all along Gravel and Salt creek. About 16 to a
                    butt. Tree trunks 2 1/2 to 3 feet thru. Trees generally straight way up. No kinky wood will do.
                    These trees were about 100 feet high. He made 10,000 in 4 1/2 days for George Roush" [452].
            "Dave Smith, formerly of Panther creek region, operated a shingle mill for a number of
                    years, giving it up about six years ago when he moved closer to a regular highway so that he could
                    operate a car and take his family out for a ride now and then. Old mill was bought at 
                        Franklin
                    . Butts 16 inches long down to a few inches less were steamed and then sliced. Elm, oak
                    and poplar used. Made in widths from 12 in. to 3 and 4. Turned out as high as 5,000 a day by
                    himself. Horses traveled in circle to operate the tumble shaft, which in turn moved the cutting
                    knife up and down. A gear shift was close at hand to be used when the horses got
                    ‘fractious.’ Shingles sold at $2 a thousand when the timber was
                    furnished by the customer and twice that amount was asked when the shingle mill man supplied the
                    wood. Wood had to be cooked about three hours. Dave made his own vat. Two or three people could turn
                    out an immense lot of shingles. One to look after the baling, horses, and steaming. Houses and
                    churches in 
                        Nashville
                     have some of the Smith shingles on them. Dave did the shingling if necessary. The Urich
                    cabin has a roof that was put on 40 years ago. Dave says his shingles would go through thirty-five
                    or forty years any time and it was no unusual thing for culls to answer the same purpose"
                    [346].
            
            
               GETTING READY FOR WINTER
               
            
            
            
               Hoosier and his wife busy sawing wood for use in their stoves this winter.
            
            
            
            
            "August 25, 1924, I started up Clay Lick to visit Stant Smith to see how he made tobacco
                    sticks…. Stanton D. Smith, 56, was born and lived in 
                        Brown County
                     all his life. Has made thousands of clapboards and since tobacco raising is taken so
                    well here he is now making a specialty of tobacco sticks on which to dry the weed. They are about
                    four feet long and an inch by inch and a half. The present ones are being made out of black jack.
                    White oak is better to split but rather scarce. An old mallet made out of the root of iron wood and
                    a frow, a cleaving tool with handle at right angles, to the blade, combined with endurance, are
                    the' tools employed. While I was talking to Stant about how the work is done he split off
                    40 poles. The poles are placed in the ground on a slant and the tobacco split from the top to within
                    a few inches of the bottom and placed crosswise of the sticks. A half dozen pieces are given room on
                    a stick as a rule and then they are placed on a hay frame and hauled to the barn where they are
                    placed on beams for drying. Stant never raised tobacco before and had to talk his wife into
                    helping—he said she was as hard to break in to tobacco work as a colt is to harness.
                    Stant says he can split 2,000 poles a day if the raw material is cut and on hands" [354].
            
            
               A BROWN COUNTY TOBACCO FIELD
               
            
            
               IN A STORYVILLE HAY FIELD
               
            
            
            
            
            "Burt Thurman was sent a gallon of sorghum by an admirer from down here. He didn't
                    know the difference, as witness this: He wrote the donor to thank him for the fine honey"
                    [239].
            
            
            
            
            "Had long been wanting a picture of a real still and Oliver Neal told me he would let me
                    know as soon as he located a specimen. Wednesday evening, July 21, 1926, he told me had the still
                    for me and we would leave next morning at 7 to photograph the same. He and his son Fred called at
                    6:40 and we were on the way a few minutes later. Followed the regular Weed Patch road to the old
                    building at the crest and then went over past the old Smith house. Meandered down a very winding
                    road to the right for about a mile and a half. Nothing but a Ford could have followed the road. Very
                    short curves and trees right where you didn't want them. We alighted near an old shed,
                    locked the car and started along a very narrow path. Followed it for a quarter of a mile and then
                    Oliver darted off the main road. Here he said is where I discovered the path to the still. My first
                    clue was some spilled water near the old well, about which something later. The
                    ‘Y’ off the path had a limb across it which was almost normal, being bent just
                    a trifle and possibly a few leaves were withered. We sidestepped as best we could down the steep
                    bank, over logs, having a care for snakes, and when we came to the first resting place Oliver said,
                    now don't talk and maybe we can catch the hen on the nest. A little farther and Oliver must
                    have cracked a limb for he attracted the attention of the operator fixing the fire. He might have
                    seen my light colored shirt, too, for he started to take to his heels through the narrow ravine and
                    just then Oliver let go with a round of shot. He said he hit him in the back but we didn't
                    know. He was asked to stop but he said he couldn't, and then Fred said give him another and
                    help him. Oliver yelled again to look out for the other fellow or he would run into his arms, but he
                    went on and disappeared in the dense thicket, probably 250 feet from the rim of the hill. Oliver
                    said he was [name deleted] and that he had been warned. The still was about five rods over the state
                    reserve line. Showing a caution that spoke of ‘smartness.’ [Name deleted]
                    evidently got home unusually early that morning and his wife no doubt wondered why. He found out
                    that it was customers' day, I am sure. The still was located on the Black land and was a
                    complete outfit. I brought home an extra coil, and we didn't disturb the outfit at all.
                    Rather felt lenient and emptied the full quart can and also the water can that was running over.
                    Water  in the barrel was carried from the old well at least a
                    half mile away. The water in the well was almost stagnant and of a dark color—tadpoles
                    were playing in it, and that is the quality of water used to make the liquor, which, I must admit,
                    was quite clear after the distillation. The weather was unusually hot by the time we got out of the
                    valley. Fred led the procession to the old well with the gun, looking for snakes everywhere, and he
                    missed a black one at his feet which I spied. He made his getaway very easily. His slippery body was
                    out of striking distance in the twinkling of an eye. Oliver a natural born detective. The old well
                    possibly a hundred years old…. Officers hunted three hours and then couldn't
                    find the still. Oliver helped them out and when he got right down to the still he put his hand on it
                    and said, ‘Boys, this is a still.’ Fred Neal says the operator must have
                    peeled the bark from all the trees in his flight" [433].
            
               "WHITE MULE—A native said the only thing that would keep him
                    from making it was not knowing how" [359].
            "Lon Kennedy says the new way to make liquor and dodge the revnooers is to take a pumpkin,
                    cut out the top and then remove the fillings. Insert two-thirds sugar and one-third water, and let
                    set after you put the top back on. They say when it begins to ferment that it can't be beat
                    for real liquor. Pumpkins will be scarcer for Hallow'en" [403].
            "Ever since several stills were rounded up here folks don't seem to be so
                    particular as to who helps them on with their overcoats" [292].
            
            
            
            
               THE OLD HACK
               
            
            
            
            
            
               HENRY MOBLEY, THE VILLAGE BLACKSMITH, AND HIS ASSISTANT
               
            
            
            
               SETTING A TIRE
               
            
            
            
            
            
               ALEX MULLIS PUTTING ON AN EDGE AT THE GRINDSTONE
               
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
            
               HOME MADE BEE GUMS
                            ALONG STATE HIGHWAY
                            46—EAST OF BLOOMINGTON
               
            
            
            "NED PEDRO—Aged 54, called at the studio upon invitation
                    January 20, 1928, at 1:15. Wanted to interview him as to his bee-hunting experiences. He was born
                    about 1/2 mile west of Little Sampie David's place on the Weed Patch hill. His father,
                    Frank Pedro, was also a bee-hunter, but Ned never took up the work until four years ago.
                    ‘I got after 'em four years ago,’ he said. Learned the business from
                    Bill Harden. Generally found the black bees watering at some branch or creek. When they got ready to
                    go they would ‘fizz’ and away they went—sometimes only a hundred
                    feet away, other times 3/4 of a mile off. Beeches housed the most of them, but they were found in
                    gums, hickory, black jack and occasionally in a maple. Found 7 or 8 in one year. Following the bees
                    from the watering place was called ‘coursing them.’ Generally at the creeks in
                    dry seasons. Don't have any idea what way they are going—they go quick. If a
                    long distance to their nest they fly high before they make a straight shoot. Other times a slanting
                    trail to their hives. After the hunter locates the tree he reports to the owner of the land. If he
                    refuses to let the finder cut the tree the former can prevent his cutting it, also. That was the law
                    in them days, Ned said. I get fooled occasionally. Cut a tree and find the bees have just begun
                    building up a place. Located a hive on the state land owned by Duncan then. Carson Aynes helped, but
                    they got stung so badly they had to give up the job. Occasionally Ned would burn some rags. Would
                    seldom get money for the honey—preferred to give it around to the neighbors. Like to hunt
                    'em—would rather do that than cut the tree. Can be found from June to September,
                    but occasionally see the bees working on the outside of their homes as late as December. Even
                    located one in January. Saw one on a Xmas day at Dough Ball hole in a sycamore. Didn't cut
                    it. Nick Roberts didn't care about the land selling, he just wanted the
                    honey—and that's the way he explained why he cut a fine tree. … Got
                    stung pretty often but I generally used soda, salt or tobacco juice—preferably the
                    latter, to get rid of the hurtin'. In explaining the habits of bees Ned
                    asked—‘You know how bees is, don't you?’ Squirrels eat the
                    honey if they can get into the hole, which is generally a small one. Some times the entrance to bee
                    homes is at the root of the trees and occasionally as high as fifty feet" [476].
            
            
               Southern Indiana fox hunters, members of their families and their hounds, ready to trail one of
                        the stealthy animals.
            
            
            FOX MEET
            
            "Some of the attractions—Boxing match, Indian medicine show, horse and mule sale,
                    movies, dance" [401].
            "At the Duncan school race it was quite overcast and an outsider wanted to know if the sun
                    ever shone here, and if it did, where in the hell did it come up at—he was lost"
                    [401].
            "Ed Voland was hunting foxes on the ridge across from his Greasy creek home and finally shot
                    an animal who was able to run quite a ways and he followed a man whom he thought picked it up, to
                    the Wash Barnes cabin. When he got in the house Fred was putting on his shoes as though he had just
                    got up. Some deceit, they say" [306].
            
            
            "Oliver said when he went to arrest an old man on David's Branch for hunting on
                    Sunday the fellow said, ‘Yes, I know it's agin the law, and besides I used to be
                    a warden under Sweeney, of 
                        Columbus
                    .’ He wanted Oliver to release him, saying: ‘Let's forget
                    this and go and have some watermelon.’ A little later he caught Jesse Mathis and Louis
                    Selmier, both hunting on Sunday. Jesse said he was never known to do anything wrong but what he got
                    caught at it. When he started for Selmier Oliver had to shoot once to cause a stop. When the two met
                    Oliver asked him why he run, and Louis said he wasn't running—he just
                    couldn't keep his feet still. Then Louis wanted to know what Oliver wanted. The first thing
                    the warden asked for was a chew of tobacco. Then they were both told to come to town, but first get
                    their dinner. Oliver was at the hardware store to greet them and Jesse told Oliver that he had been
                    thinking things over and decided he hadn't been hunting—it was the dog. But you
                    done the shooting, didn't you? inquired Oliver" [404].
            
            
            
            
            
               "BURRYINS—More turn out to them than do folks in the city
                        to movies" [204].
            
            
            "Told about woman being buried from the Yoder vicinity who wanted quilt she had made, also
                    photos of father and mother in coffin with her. Then a heavy bundle was included. There was a
                    mystery about this. Later Mrs. Yoder found out that it was 6 8x10 window glass. It seems that at the
                    rear of the house was a small window sash containing this glass, through which the dead woman at one
                    time saw her father and mother shaking hands. She couldn't remember which pane the vision
                    appeared in so she had all the glass removed and buried with her. Old man Richards on Bear creek had
                    such a spouting of blood at the nose when he was embalmed that it was necessary to place a book
                    under his head in the coffin. Later the heirs thought that the book included was a record of
                    deceased's finances, and nothing would do but open the grave, etc. Result, it was
                    congressional record" [148].
            "URIAH SNYDER—When asked on the street about his dying said
                    ‘I couldn't go away and leave all you folks here!’ " [147].
            "Dick Coffey tells about a recent death. The man's almost last request was that
                    they sell the cow and pay Dick Coffey for funeral. He told the widow not to do that as she would
                    later find a way to pay" [297].
            "Dennis and Duard's father wanted to be buried upright so that all his bones would
                    fall in a pile" [228].
            "Mrs. Carson, who had that day buried her husband in a wooden coffin decided that she wanted
                    a metal one and had the body disinterred and brought to the house while a six-horse team went
                    through the mud, knee deep, to bring over a metal casket. She and a husband, boy and a dog occupy
                    prominent place in the hill cemetery, near Bessire's" [222].
            March 6, 1922, Dick Coffey had a funeral over south and it was necessary to take two horses and two
                    mules to pull the hearse. Some one remarked that it must have been a Democrat, for they
                    don't allow them on Republican funerals" [222].
            "Mr. Grattan died Friday morning and as he did not wish to be embalmed he was buried the
                    next day after dinner. Some town wag suggested in connection with the hurried
                    ‘plantin’ that he had been here long enough anyway" [218].
            
            
            
            "BAPSOUZED—That's the latest expression of a baptizing
                    in 
                        Brown
                    " [219].
            "Baptism, story of children with family of cats. Immersed all but old Tom. Girl
                    couldn't get him under. Boy said, sprinkle him and let him go to hell" [12].
            "Joe Wayman worried about his brother who is ill. Wants him baptized. Putting him under
                    water will save him according to Joe. Doc Turner remembers when they put Sam McLary's
                    daughter under water through a hole in the ice, over at Pine Bluffs. She was a hopeless invalid and
                    they just carried her over to the spot and put her under water in the rocking chair" [379].
            
            
               BASKETBALL PRACTICE NOT FAR FROM VILLAGE SQUARE
               
            
            
            
               THE HELMSBURG BAND IN 1923
            
            
            
            1918
            January—Mrs. Susan Weddle-Genolin, prominent 
                        Nashville
                     lady, arrives in 
                        France
                     as nurse with Base Hospital #32. 
                        Brown County
                     subscribes $1,011.50 to Armenian-Syrian relief fund.
            February—County's first war conference held at the court house Friday, 15th.
            School at Christiansburg, Van Buren township, first to organize War Savings Club in county.
            
            March—John M. Crouch, aged 19, first soldier from this county to die in service. Was with
                    Pershing's troops in 
                        France
                    . Death resulted from lung trouble March 15.
            Activities of local Red Cross society brings membership up to 109.
            April—Fourteen drafted men leave for Camp Taylor.
            
               
                        Brown County
                     third over-the-top in Liberty Loan campaign—exceeding its $10,000
                    quota by about $3,000.
            Red Cross society organized at 
                        Helmsburg
                    , the 10th.
            
            May—Big Red Cross Drive for $1,000 results in a subscription of
                    $1,856.84.
            June—Thirteen more leave for the service June 15, followed by nine others the 24th.
            July—Twenty enlisted men report at Camp Taylor the 25th. Artie Moore killed in action July
                    18. First 
                        Brown County
                     casualty.
            August—Sixteen 
                        Brown County
                     men inducted into the service during the month.
            September—John Thomas Barger, from near 
                        Nashville
                    , severely wounded in battle.
            Elder J. W. Street, left the 15th for Y.M.C.A. work in 
                        France
                    .
            Private Ray Griffin killed in action July 19. News just received. Second to give his life, from 
                        Brown County
                    .
            John R. White, Camp Deevens, Mass., succumbs to the Flu September 29. Second to die of disease. John
                    Crouch, the first to die of disease, March 15, was a brother-in-law of White's.
            Ralph Brown wounded in action, Sept. 22. Aged 23.
            October—Sergeant Charles Sturgeon, aged 28, died October 11, in 
                        France
                    , from effects of being gassed.
            November—Dewey Miller, aged 20, severely wounded in action, November 18.
            Louis E. Scrock died of wounds received in 
                        France
                    . Signing of the armistice cause for great celebration Monday afternoon, the 11th.
            Oddy Crouch, aged 23, died of influenza at Camp Caster, November 15.
            December—Claude Tipton died at Camp Sherman of the Flu.
            Inducted into the service from this county—189 [71–72].
            
            
            "STONE HEAD MONUMENT—Leonard Wheeler told me that the stone had
                    fallen into the creek at one time and laid there for ten years. Wes Polley, a road contractor came
                    along and dug it out. Hill Coffey of 
                        Nashville
                     retraced the lettering and it was placed on a cement pillar. [name deleted], said to
                    have been drunk, shot the nose from the face" [338].
            
            
               PART OF A SUNDAY PARADE ALONG STATE ROAD 135. LAST OCTOBER.
            
            
            
               NASHVILLE HAD ITS GREATEST AUTO TRAFFIC IN THE HISTORY OF
                            ITS TOURIST SEASONS SUNDAY
               
            
            
            
               NASHVILLE
               
            
            
            
               NASHVILLE
               
            
            
            
               THE CORNER DRUG STORE
               
            
            
            
               "The bazaars of the orient have nothing on 
                            Nashville
                        " [236].
            
            
            
               A LANDMARK—JOHNNY WALKER'S STORE at SPEARSVILLE
               
            
            
            
               THE MAIL SERVICE
               
            
            
            
            
            
               FRANK M. HOHENBERGER
               
            
         
         
         
            William E. Henry's "Outline for the Study of History": A Guide for
                    Local Historians
            Contributed, with an introduction, by Robert G. Barrows∗
            
            The celebration of the American Revolution Bicentennial has heightened interest in American history
                    and culture. The past two or three years have witnessed a flood of publications, televised
                    "specials," lectures, and symposia dealing with American history in general and
                    the Revolution in particular. None of this should come as any surprise, especially when the events
                    of a century ago are recalled. The Centennial of 1876 produced its own spate of celebrations. But it
                    also produced something that may yet result from the bicentennial—an interest in local
                    history that persisted for a quarter century.
            In May, 1876, President Ulysses S. Grant issued a proclamation to implement a joint resolution of
                    Congress. The proclamation urged 
                        the people of the several States … [to] assemble in their several counties or
                            towns on the approaching centennial anniversary of our national independence, and that they
                            cause to have delivered on such day an historical sketch of said county or town from its
                            formation, and that a copy of said sketch may be filed, in print or manuscript, in the
                            clerk's office of said county, and an additional copy, in print or manuscript, be
                            filed in the office of the Librarian of Congress, to the intent that a complete record may
                            thus be obtained of the progress of our institutions during the first centennial of their
                                existence.1
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  ∗ Robert G. Barrows is a graduate student in the Department of
                        History, Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        . The author wishes to thank James W. Williams for his help in securing the
                        accompanying photograph of William E. Henry.
               
                  1 James D. Richardson, comp., A Compilation of the Messages
                            and Papers of the Presidents (10 vols., 
                            Washington
                        , 1896–1899), VII, 391. An article by Michael Kammen, "The
                        American Revolution Bicentennial and The Writing of Local History," History News, XXX (August, 1975), [187], called attention to this citation.
            
            
            Although the immediate impact of this proclamation is unknown, during the last quarter of the
                    nineteenth century—and especially during the 1880s—a sudden surge occurred in
                    the production of local histories. Indiana, like many states, benefited from this renewed historical
                    interest. Works published during these years—generally narrative, frequently
                    biographical, and usually heavy—remain for many Indiana counties the most complete, if
                    not always the most accurate, compendia of local history up to and including the Gilded Age.2
            
            This interest in Hoosier local history peaked near the end of the century with the appearance of The Indianian, a publication whose "chief aim" was to
                    "encourage the study of history, not only in the schools of the State, but in the home
                    reading circle."3 The editors hoped to make their journal "the
                    historical magazine of Indiana" and made an appeal to their readers: "Help us,
                    friends, and you will be helped in your study of Indiana history."4
            
            The editors tried in a variety of ways to foster historical study and interest. They encouraged the
                    formation of local history clubs; they sponsored contests for school children on matters pertaining
                    to Indiana history; they published a series of articles under the general title "Historic
                    and Picturesque Indiana" in which a well illustrated sketch of a different county was
                    presented each issue; and they offered copies of William Henry Smith's History
                        of the State of Indiana as prizes in a subscription drive. Finally, to aid local historians
                    with enthusiasm but no clear idea of where to begin, the editors published a guide prepared by
                    William E. Henry, the state librarian—an "Outline for the Study of
                    History" at the local level.5
            
            Hoosier born and bred, Henry had received "such education as was offered by district schools
                    …, never having 
                  
                     2 For examples of these publications, selected at random, see Weston
                            A. Goodspeed and Charles Blanchard, Counties of Porter and Lake, Indiana:
                                Historical and Biographical (
                                Chicago
                            , 1882); History of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 Falls Cities and Their Counties [Floyd and Clark counties, Indiana] (2
                            vols., 
                                Cleveland
                            , 1882); Berry R. Sulgrove, History of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and 
                                    Marion County
                                , Indiana (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1884); History of 
                                    Knox
                                 and 
                                    Daviess
                                 Counties, Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1886); Biographical and Historical Record of Jay and 
                                    Blackford
                                 Counties, Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1887); and H. C. Bradsby, History of 
                                    Vigo County
                                , Indiana, with Biographical Selections (
                                Chicago
                            , 1891).
                  
                     3
                            The Indianian, I (December, 1897), 10.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., II (November, 1898), 183.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., I (December, 1897)-VII (January-February, 1901), passim.
                  
               
                     attended school more than three months in any one year until he
                    was twenty-one years of age, at which time he began teaching a country school."6 He subsequently attended the Indiana State Normal School (now Indiana State
                    University) at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , graduated from Indiana University (with A.B. and A.M. degrees), and did graduate work
                    at the University of 
                        Chicago
                    . He served as professor of English at 
                        Franklin
                     College following his study in 
                        Chicago
                     and was appointed state librarian in March, 1897. He held that position ten years,
                    leaving in 1907 to become head librarian at the State University of 
                        Washington
                     at Seattle.7
            
            Henry's "Outline for the Study of History" first appeared in The Indianian in November, 1898.8 It appears here with the hope that
                    it might spur a renascence of research and writing on local history. In addition to the previously
                    mentioned county histories produced during the late nineteenth century, there were numerous local
                    studies published in the years surrounding Indiana's centennial celebration in 1916. But
                    the output since then has been modest.9 Perhaps, with the bicentennial induced
                    interest that currently exists, Henry's 
                  
                     6 William E. Henry, comp., Legislative and State Manual
                                of Indiana for 1899 and 1900 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1899), 127.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid.; Commemorative Biographical Record of Prominent and Representative Men of 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and Vicinity (
                                Chicago
                            , 1908), 312–13; Who Was Who in America (
                                Chicago
                            , 1943), I, 552.
                  
                     8 The "Outline" was reprinted in three subsequent
                            issues, and the editors offered to make additional copies available upon request.
                            Preparation of this "Outline" was not Henry's last excursion into
                            the field of Indiana local history. After The Indianian ceased publication
                            in 1901, having failed to become "the historical magazine of Indiana,"
                            Henry became involved in efforts to establish a state historical journal. The prospectus for
                            an "Indiana Quarterly Magazine of History," apparently issued in 1904,
                            carried Henry's name as "manager." (A copy of this prospectus is
                            held by the Indiana Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .) Slightly revised, and retitled "Our Reasons for Being,"
                            this prospectus was reprinted in volume I, number 1, of the Indiana Quarterly
                                Magazine of History (now the Indiana Magazine of History), which
                            appeared in 1905 with George S. Cottman as editor and publisher and Henry again listed as
                            "manager."
                  
                     9 In October, 1975, the author of this introduction conducted a survey
                            of the county histories shelved in the reading room of the Indiana Division, Indiana State
                            Library. This visual survey was supplemented by reference to a special Indiana Division card
                            catalog dealing with Indiana counties. This examination indicated that only eleven Indiana
                            counties have had a relatively full scale history written since 1930; only seven counties
                            can claim to have such published since 1950. This was, to be sure, only a superficial
                            survey, and these figures should by no means be considered definitive. But the broad outline
                            seems clear—the experiences of most Indiana counties and towns through two world
                            wars and the Great Depression have not yet been carefully studied.
               
                     "Outline" may provide a useful starting point
                    for the individual who wishes to study his or her community.
            Henry's "Outline" is not presented here, however, as a definitive guide
                    for the student or writer of local history. For a variety of reasons it is now somewhat dated.
                    Either because the subject did not then exist or because its relevance was not recognized, Henry
                    failed to ask some questions that need to be considered today. The absence of any mention of radio,
                    television, or automobile roads from the section on "Transportation and
                    Communication" is merely one example.
            Furthermore, Henry's "Outline" is a historical document in its own right.
                    It reflects attitudes and assumptions about historical writing current at the turn of the century.
                    While still useful, it should not be followed uncritically. For example, Henry's emphasis
                    on narration and his stress on "first," "chief,"
                    "noted," or "prominent" events are somewhat anachronistic today.
                    Moreover, the "Outline" is heavily biased toward institutional descriptions and
                    gives virtually no attention to analysis of a community's social structure and changes that
                    occurred in that structure over time. Who held power in the community and why? How stable was the
                    population? How great were the opportunities for social mobility? Did racial, religious, or national
                    minorities encounter ready acceptance or protracted hostility? How was the community affected during
                    years of war or economic depression? Such questions (meant to be illustrative not exhaustive) were
                    not considered by Henry in 1898. They are, however, considered important by historians researching
                    and writing today.
            Bearing such caveats in mind, it is hoped that Henry's "Outline for the Study of
                    History" may be of interest and use to focal historians. If work begins in this
                    bicentennial year, perhaps the 1980s will see a surge in local history writing that rivals or
                    surpasses that of a century ago.
            
            
               WILLIAM E. HENRY
               
               Reproduced from Commemorative Biographical Record of Prominent and Representative
                            Men of 
                                Indianapolis
                             and Vicinity (
                            Chicago
                        , 1908), facing p. 312.
            
            
                    
                        Outline for the Study of History for the use of Clubs and Schools—Unit
                            of Study: County, Town or Township. Prepared by Prof. W. E. Henry State Librarian.
                    
                    
                  I. Conditions which made it desirable as a home, hence led to its settlement. 
                        1. Geography of the surface; timber, prairie, streams, lakes, hills.
                        2. Nature of the soil; its formation and adaptibility for cultivation.
                        3. Chief sources of wealth when settled.
                        4. Productions of place or immediate surroundings.
                        5. Kind and relative amount of labor required to bring it to its present
                                    condition.
                     
                  
                  II. By whom settled. 
                        1. Nationality; by birth, by parentage.
                        2. From what place directly did the settlers come, if many of them came from one
                                    place.
                        3. Particular incentive which led them to this place.
                        4. From what condition of life and from what occupations did they come.
                        5. What prominent characteristics have the people retained up to the present time,
                                    if any?
                        6. Biographical sketches of characteristic early settlers.
                     
                  
                  III. Map of the Unit of Study. 
                        1. If town, show all details, such as location of prominent buildings, especially
                                    of the earlier buildings, and the location of the residences of prominent citizens
                                    from the earliest settlement.
                        2 If county or township, show location of  all
                                    towns and villages, especially the early ones, which may be now in decay.
                        3. Show early natural drainage and present artificial drainage, if it has been
                                    changed by the agency of man.
                     
                  
                  IV. Cemeteries. 
                        1. When and where located from the earliest history down to the present. It will
                                    be found desirable to copy the early inscriptions where the stones bearing them are
                                    not properly looked after. Later these will become valuable local history.
                        2. Look up early records, for in some instances records may yet be found of early
                                    burials not recorded on stones.
                     
                  
                  V. Transportation and Communication. 
                        1. History in narrative form of each of the following: 
                              (a) Canals.
                              (b) Noted wagon roads.
                              (c) Early mail routes.
                              (d) Railroads.
                              (e) Telegraph.
                              (f) Telephone.
                           
                        
                        2. Chief lines of goods shipped to and from this center.
                        3. Chief points of shipment, both to and from.
                        4. Is the Unit of Study on any great line of travel between two or more prominent
                                    points?
                     
                  
                  VI. Material Progress of the Unit of Study. 
                        1. Early industries carried on by individuals or by organized companies.
                        2. Have the primitive industries developed into the present chief industries or
                                    have the industrial lines changed?
                        3. If the lines have changed assign reason.
                     
                  
                  VII. Educational Institutions. 
                        1. Schools. 
                              (a) When, where and by whom were the earliest located?
                              (b) Sketches of prominent teachers and students.
                              (c) Prominent schools since organized, not now existing.
                              (d) Present schools and teachers.
                           
                        
                        2. Libraries and museums, if any. 
                              (a) When and where established.
                              (b) How sustained.
                              (c) Prominence reached.
                              (d) When in greatest prominence.
                              (e) Does the same still continue.
                              (f) What are the present conditions?
                              (g) What is the sentiment of the community with regard to?
                           
                        
                        3. Clubs. 
                              (a) Narrate history of all so far formed.
                              (b) Present conditions and leading members in.
                           
                        
                        4. Newspapers. 
                              (a) History of each from the first.
                              (b) Sketches of prominent men and women connected with.
                           
                        
                     
                  
                  VIII. Literary History. 
                        1. Biographical sketches of prominent writers, and especially of those who have
                                    written for publication in other than the local papers.
                        2. Give name, date and place of publication of each book, pamphlet, magazine
                                    article or series of articles upon an important subject in local papers.
                     
                  
                  IX. Churches. 
                        1. When and where was each organized?
                        2. Give names of charter members.
                        3. Sketches of most noted pastors or a complete list if possible.
                        4. Sketches of the leading workers from the first.
                        5. Present conditions.
                     
                  
                  X. Charitable, Penal and Correctional Institutions. 
                        1. Homes for the destitute dependent and defective.
                        2. Reformatories.
                        3. Jails and penitentiaries.
                     
                  
                  XI. Courts. 
                        1. History of the organization of.
                        2. Noted judges and attorneys, sketches of.
                        3. Complete list of court officials from the first.
                     
                  
                  XII. War History (each war participated in treated separately). 
                        1. List of enlistments.
                        2. List of killed in battle or dying from wounds.
                        3. List of deaths in the army from other causes.
                        4. List and location of members still living.
                        5. Biographical sketches of noted soldiers.
                     
                  
                  XIII. Professional Life, Sketches of. 
                        1. Legal profession.
                        2. Medical profession.
                        3. Educational.
                        4. Ministerial.
                     
                  
                  XIV. Local Government. 
                        1. When organized.
                        2. What departments were first organized?
                        3. What departments added since, if any?
                        4. Make list as complete as possible of officers serving in each department since
                                    the organization.
                     
                  
                  XV. Genealogy of the Older Families. 
                        1. Ancestry of early settlers as far as can be traced.
                        2. A full record of each branch and each member of the family since settlement in
                                    this locality. 
                              (a) Births.
                              (b) Marriages.
                              (c) To whom married.
                              (d) Deaths.
                           
                        
                     
                  
               
                    Note.—This material must be collected from church, court and cemetery records and
                        supplemented from the memories of the older, more intelligent and more trustworthy citizens.
                
            Reproduced, with some alterations in the original spacing, from The
                        Indianian, II (November, 1898), 177–78.
         
         
         
            Donald F. Carmony
            Professor Donald F. Carmony retired as editor of the Indiana Magazine of History
                    effective December 31, 1975. His editorship spanned twenty-one years. During that time the
                    circulation of the magazine increased from about 2,300 to approximately 5,000, and the number of
                    articles reviewed for possible publication at least doubled. Professor Carmony's high
                    standards kept the Indiana Magazine of History ranked among the top periodicals
                    which focus on state, local, and regional history. Those who know and have worked with Professor
                    Carmony recognize that his knowledge of Indiana history is unsurpassed and that his contributions to
                    the state, the university, and the historical profession are incalculable. He will continue to teach
                    in the Indiana University Department of History.
            In the following article Edward J. Moss of the Indiana University News Bureau perceptively captures
                    Professor Carmony in all his varied roles: scholar, author, historian, administrator, farmer,
                    editor, Hoosier, and friend. The article first appeared in the Indiana Athletic
                    Review, October 18, 1975.1 Except for minor editorial changes and a few
                    modifications to bring it up to date, it is reproduced here as originally written.
            
                    Donald Carmony—Mr. Indiana History
                
            
                    Edward J. Moss∗
               
                
            Historian Donald F. Carmony could have stepped from the pages of one of a multitude of books Hoosier
                    authors have written about the state. He has become a part of the 
                  
                     1 The Indiana Athletic Review, published by the
                            Indiana University Foundation, is the official program for athletic events at Indiana
                            University. The issue of October 18, 1975, was the program for the Indiana
                            University-University of 
                                Iowa
                             football game.
                  
                     ∗ Edward J. Moss is the senior editor for the Indiana
                            University News Bureau, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     Indiana history he has taught, written, and researched for over
                    forty years.
            He was born in 1910 on a 
                        Shelby County
                     farm. His father, in Hoosier pioneer fashion, was a jack of all trades. Dr. Carmony
                    talked about his early life in an interview:
            "My father taught school for over thirty years. He was also an undertaker (they say
                    mortician these days), he sold furniture, and he farmed. We also raised Newfoundland dogs which we
                    sold all over the country. I remember people buying a puppy, and then losing it and writing to
                    request another with the same kind of markings."
            Dr. Carmony, as in most farm families of his day, became a participant in the daily operation at an
                    early age:
            "I suppose the first thing I remember is riding the roller. That was a couple of large,
                    round blocks of wood—connected with a metal axle through their center and a platform,
                    with a seat on it, over them—and pulled by two horses. It was used to mash clods.
                    I'm sure at age five or six I was doing some of that, but Dad would be certain that I had
                    gentle horses.
            "I used both the walking plow and the riding plow. I liked the one row riding cultivator,
                    but the metal seat got awfully hot in warm weather. Sometimes I went barefoot but this was dangerous
                    because if the cultivator hit a rock or something it might jam your foot against the
                    metal."
            Dr. Carmony, who is professor of history at Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , served as editor of the Indiana Magazine of History from 1955 to
                    1975. He was chairman of the Indiana Sesquicentennial Commission from the time of its organization
                    in 1960 until its ending in 1967. He was vice chairman of the Indiana Museum Study Commission in the
                    1950s and was a member of the Indiana Civil War Centennial Commission.
            Dr. Carmony was a member of Indiana University's Sesquicentennial Committee and served on
                    the university's bicentennial committee and the 
                        Bloomington
                     Bicentennial Committee. He is currently a member of the Indiana State Review Board for
                    the National Register of Historic Places, the 
                        New Harmony
                     Commission, and the Indiana American Revolution Bicentennial Commission. In 1974 the
                    presidents of the Associated Colleges of Indiana elected Dr. Carmony to membership in the Indiana
                    Academy, and in the spring of 
                    
                  DONALD F. CARMONY DISCUSSES WITH
                                ASSOCIATE EDITOR LORNA LUTES SYLVESTER THE LAST ISSUE OF THE INDIANA MAGAZINE OF
                                HISTORY FOR WHICH HE SERVED AS EDITOR
                  
                  Courtesy Indiana University News Bureau, 
                                Bloomington
                            .
               
                     1975 he was awarded the Leather Medal by Sigma Delta Chi for
                    distinguished service to the university.
            The route from farm boy to respected scholar and historian was not an easy one, nor did it occur by
                    design.
            Dr. Carmony's early farm tasks included providing water for wheat threshers, milking a half
                    dozen cows, and helping his dad harness as many as eight horses before breakfast.
            "We tried to be in the field by 6:00 a.m.," he recalled. "In the busy
                    season we might have the chores done, have breakfast, and be at work by 5:30 a.m. I can remember
                    coming in at night so tired I would eat supper and crawl upstairs to bed, even before
                    sundown."
            At that time, Dr. Carmony hadn't "the slightest interest" in Indiana
                    history. He liked farming and with some encouragement probably would have stayed on the farm. Until
                    he got to high school, the only schools he had attended had been where his father taught.
            When he got to high school, Dr. Carmony developed an interest in mathematics. When he graduated from
                    Manilla High School in 
                        Rush County
                    , there was a record nineteen members in the graduating class.
            From high school he went to Indiana Central University to major in mathematics. About halfway through
                    college he became interested in history, and he stayed on at Indiana Central to accept a part time
                    position teaching history. Incidentally, he has been a member of the Indiana Central Board of
                    Trustees since 1943.
            Dr. Carmony went on to Indiana University to do graduate work in history and taught again at Indiana
                    Central and at the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and 
                        South Bend
                     campuses of Indiana University. This led to his being made academic dean for what was
                    then Indiana University's Extension Division. In 1959 he left his administration post to
                    become a full time member of the History Department faculty here.
            Dr. Carmony has not been one to hide his history under a basket. He has talked to teachers, service
                    clubs, historical societies, fraternal and patriotic groups, and just about any other kind of
                    gathering in Indiana. Researchers and graduate students in this and other states commonly call upon
                    him to help in finding and evaluating source materials for their historical research.
            Which period of Indiana history has been the most exciting? Dr. Carmony believes his own period has.
            
            "I think recent decades have clearly been those of greatest innovation and greatest advances
                    in science, education, and culture," he said. "There are many people who feel the
                    pioneer period, roughly the first half of the nineteenth century, was the golden era. Those who are
                    nostalgic about this period forget the hardships and deprivations which existed. It's true
                    very deep and personal relationships existed and it was not the anonymous society we have today, but
                    it was still a hard life."
            When Indiana gained a historian it didn't lose a farmer. Dr. Carmony has a large garden and
                    a number of fruit trees at his 
                        Bloomington
                     home and each year produces enough fruit and vegetables to keep his pantry well
                    stocked.
            
               Courtesy Indiana University News Bureau, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Yankee Artillerymen: Through the Civil War with Eli Lilly's Indiana
                    Battery. By John W. Rowell. (
                        Knoxville
                    : The University of 
                        Tennessee
                     Press, 1975. Pp. xvi, 320. Illustrations, notes, maps, appendixes, bibliography, index.
                    $11.95.)
            Possibly no other event in American history has been the subject of so many millions of words as has
                    been the Civil War. And, as might be expected, the majority of the writings on this event have
                    discussed the more publicized battles and engagements of the eastern theater. Rowell's new
                    volume, however, covers the western campaigns of the Civil War as seen through the eyes of a group
                    of young Hoosiers who made up the famous Lilly Battery, officially known as the 18th Indiana Light
                    Artillery. Yankee Artillerymen is a fine addition to the books on the western
                    battles and is a well researched, fast moving account of the battery from its recruitment by Captain
                    Eli Lilly in the summer of 1862 through its travels in 
                  Kentucky, Tennessee, Alabama
               , and 
                        Georgia
                     to its mustering out at 
                        Indianapolis
                     on June 30, 1865.
            The author takes his readers through the early expeditions and engagements in 
                        Tennessee
                     at 
                        Tullahoma
                    , Hoover's Gap, and 
                        Chattanooga
                     and achieves the volume's best reporting in the chapter dealing with the
                    unit's participation in the battle of Chickamauga. In December, 1862, the unit became a
                    part of the famous Wilder's Brigade, and the story of this brigade at 
                        Chickamauga
                     in September, 1863, is legendary. According to Rowell, Union General William Rosecrans
                    stated that Wilder's Brigade "deserved the thanks of the country for their
                    actions" at 
                        Chickamauga
                     (p. 124).
            After Chickamauga the battery played an active role in General William T. Sherman's 
                        Atlanta
                     campaign in 1864 and then swept through 
                        Alabama
                     and western 
                        Georgia
                     with General James H. Wilson's powerful cavalry in 1865. In all, the Lilly
                    Battery marched over six thousand miles during its three years of service to the Union.
            This book is well documented and carefully researched and has excellent maps and illustrations. The
                    personal maps which were prepared by young Bugler Henry Campbell and which are now located in the 
                        Wabash
                     College Archives are outstanding. Rowell's volume is an excellent companion
                    book  to Glenn Sunderland's Lightning at
                        Hoover's Gap, the history of Wilder's Brigade published in 1969. Yankee Artillerymen will find a ready audience among Civil War readers and will be
                    of interest especially to Hoosiers. There is still room on the Civil War bookshelf for excellently
                    written books, and the University of 
                        Tennessee
                     is to be congratulated on this fine publication and addition to Civil War literature
                    about the western campaigns.
            
               Corydon, Ind. Arville L. Funk
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Cincinnati
                        : A Chronological & Documentary History, 1676–1970. Compiled
                    and edited by Robert I. Vexler. (Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.: Oceana Publications, Inc., 1975. Pp. vii, 152.
                    Bibliography, name index. $7.50.)
            The title and foreword of this book promise a useful and valuable tool for the student of 
                        Cincinnati
                     history. The foreword explains that political, social, economic, and cultural events
                    have been evaluated and included, as well as a collection of documents illustrating the
                    city's growth. It also indicates that this is one in a series of chronologies of American
                    cities edited by Howard B. Furer. Such a series is an imaginative, needed, and useful venture. One
                    expects a chronology, however, to be a detailed list of events or carefully to set out criteria for
                    selection and elimination. Unfortunately this work does neither. Of the 138 pages of text,
                    sixty-five are devoted to the chronology. There are about fifteen entries per page, a total of
                    between nine hundred and one thousand entries. The first four pages deal with the eighteenth
                    century, pages 4–46 with the 1800s, and 46–65 with the twentieth century.
            Considerable selectivity is, of course, necessary in a volume of this kind, but throughout the book
                    continuing questions arise as to the basis for the selection of entries. For example, the election
                    of each mayor is recorded, but the holder of no other position is noted with any consistency.
                    Furthermore, so far as impact on the city is concerned, presidents of Proctor and Gamble, bishops or
                    archbishops of the diocese, and presidents of the University of 
                        Cincinnati
                     may well exceed the mayors in importance. Incumbents in these positions have served
                    long terms compared to the typical term of mayors, and their impact as individuals has been
                    substantial.  Also, since 
                        Cincinnati
                     owes much to transportation facilities, the entries that deal with this topic seem
                    completely inadequate. While there is considerable coverage of newspapers, there is no mention of
                    radio or television. 
                        Cincinnati
                     has made significant contributions in both areas, probably greater in proportion than
                    to the development of newspapers.
            The above are expressions of opinions and interpretations of this reviewer that may differ from those
                    of the compiler. But they point to the basic weakness of the book. It is so brief, and thus so
                    highly selective, that it has little value as a reference book or for other purposes. The idea of a 
                        Cincinnati
                     chronology is good. The merit of this one is severely limited by its brevity.
            
               University of 
                     Cincinnati,
                                Cincinnati
                  
                William D.
                Aeschbacher
         
         
            
               An 
                            Ohio
                         Reader: 1750 to the Civil War. Edited by Thomas H. Smith. (Grand Rapids:
                    William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1975. Pp. 324. Notes. Paperbound, $4.95.)
            
               An 
                            Ohio
                         Reader: Reconstruction to the Present. Edited by Thomas H. Smith (Grand
                    Rapids: William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1975. Pp. 439. Notes. Paper-bound,
                    $5.95.)
            
               An 
                            Ohio
                         Reader contains approximately 140 documents organized topically. Thomas H.
                    Smith, director of the 
                        Ohio
                     Historical Society, explains that four criteria were used in compiling the selected
                    documents. One, they should relate to topics traditionally regarded as important in 
                        Ohio
                     history. Two, the selections should be self explanatory, containing survey or
                    descriptive information pertinent to their subjects. Three, within the limits of available documents
                    the selections should present contrasting viewpoints regarding controversial issues. Four, the
                    selections must be primary sources giving contemporaneous and eyewitness descriptions, accounts, or
                    views of the subjects discussed.
            As the result of the editor's meticulous adherence to these standards, the 
                  
                            Ohio
                         Reader is a documentary history of 
                        Ohio
                     from the viewpoints of establishment figures, usually men in 
                        Ohio
                     government and journalism. It is almost devoid of documents  written by members of such minority groups as women and blacks. Most of
                    the selections come from state documents and the works of public officials in the form of laws,
                    treaties, letters, speeches, and messages. Also in this category are many official reports of
                    governmental departments and agencies. "Poverty's Penalty—How Our Poor
                    Are Cared For," Report of the Board of State Charities, 1870 (second
                    volume, pp. 81-84) is illustrative of reports which are particularly informative regarding problems
                    within the state. Other selections are largely newspaper accounts, magazine articles, and travel
                    accounts. Greatest space is given to traditional topics directly involving government, war, and
                    politics. Literature, art, music, religion, and the purely social-cultural aspects of the history of
                    Indians, blacks, women, and white ethnic groups apparently do not appear because the related
                    documents do not conform to the editor's selection criteria. Social, cultural, economic,
                    and environmental topics are only discussed as political or public issues. Although the selections
                    represent the views of the state's establishment, An 
                            Ohio
                         Reader is by no means chauvinistic. Using the problems approach, it emphasizes
                    divisive issues including racism affecting Indians and blacks, nativism, religious bigotry, labor
                    exploitation, political corruption, urban violence, sexism, and environmental pollution.
            These volumes are more suitable for general readers than for students in the classroom, although the
                    editor intends them for use by both. The introductions to the topically organized sections, while
                    sound and well written, are too brief to provide the historical perspective needed by most students.
                    Two to three pages of editorial introduction and explanation are given for each topical grouping,
                    totaling ten in each volume. The high quality of the selections can best be appreciated by persons
                    having a background knowledge of the history of 
                        Ohio
                     or of the region and the nation. The documents include explicit statements of
                    contemporary views and biases which teachers can use in the classroom. For example, the anti-German
                    hysteria of the World War I period is cogently illustrated by Governor James M. Cox's
                    message asserting "that the teaching of German to our children … is part of a
                    conspiracy formed long ago by the German government in Berlin" (second volume, p. 242). The
                    documents are generally informative and interesting, even entertaining.  One example of the amusing selections is Charles Dickens'
                    account of his journey from 
                        Cincinnati
                     to Sandusky in 1842. Dickens observed that the experience of traveling by stagecoach
                    over a corduroy road in 
                        Ohio
                     was so unique that it "would be impossible to experience a similar set of
                    sensations, in any other circumstances, unless perhaps in attempting to go up to the top of 
                        St. Paul
                    's in an omnibus" (first volume, p. 123). In short, measured by its
                    own standards, An 
                            Ohio
                         Reader is a work of excellent quality and is recommended for the general
                    reader of the history of 
                        Ohio
                     and this region.
            
               Indiana State University, 
                            Terre Haute
                        
                William Giffin
         
         
            
               Lewis and Clark: Historic Places Associated with Their Transcontinental Exploration
                        (1804–06). Edited by Roy E. Appleman; research assistant, James H. Charleton. (
                        Washington
                    : 
                        United States
                     Department of the Interior, National Parks Service, 1975. Pp. viii, 429. Illustrations,
                    maps, notes, suggested reading, index. $20.00.)
            
               Passage through the Garden: Lewis and Clark and the Image of the American
                    Northwest. By John Logan Allen. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1975. Pp. xxvi, 412. Notes, maps, tables, bibliography, index.
                    $18.50.)
            The two studies reviewed here marvelously compliment each other. The volume published by the National
                    Parks Service is a superb digest of words, illustrations, and maps of the Meriwether Lewis and
                    William Clark achievement. Professor John Logan Allen's scholarly work is an intriguing
                    examination of the evolving geographic images of the trans-
                        Missouri
                     Northwest beginning in the late seventeenth century and extending to the final triumph
                    of 1806.
            If either layman or scholar were reduced to but one secondary book on the 1804–1806
                    expedition, he could not obtain a better single tool than the team creation produced by Roy E.
                    Appleman, Robert G. Ferris, and their associates in the National Parks Service. It is a model of its
                    type. There may be flaws in the smooth flowing narrative or the superbly crafted three tone maps,
                    but this reviewer failed to locate them. A few may carp that the identity of each picture is not
                    specified under the photograph or illustration, but  recourse to
                    the "Art and Picture Credits" provides a careful listing for each of the 360
                    items. Likewise others may wish to quibble that the bibliography is rather narrowly conceived;
                    however, what is listed is bedrock strata for those erecting a composition related to this
                    exploration.
            Quite fittingly, Lewis and Clark is not only the most recent but probably the
                    finest volume in the series on Historic Sites and Buildings in which it is volume XIII. Some 250
                    pages trace the expedition from its earliest formation to the actual undertaking and its immediate
                    results. Quantifiers who are prematurely rubbing their hands at the demise of narrative history will
                    be chagrined should their computer prone corneas pass over these pages. The balanced and evocative
                    description in this book once again confirms that, among other things, history is an art form.
                    Another one hundred pages is devoted to a graphic survey of sites and buildings related to the
                    exploration. Listed are points of interest in 
                  Tennessee, Missouri, Iowa, Nebraska, Idaho
               , 
                        North and South Dakota
                    , 
                  Montana, Oregon
               , and 
                        Washington
                    . Let it be kept in mind that these encapsulations are not mere road map notes. For
                    example, the reader will find under 
                        Montana
                    's Great Falls Portage eight pages of content detailing how that location
                    appears today as well as what it was like in 1804; five photographs and a two page map further
                    illuminate the setting. Hopefully tens of thousands of tourists and people in the cummunications
                    industry will soon familiarize themselves with this handsomely packaged source book.
            Helpful for understanding why this memorable exploratory enterprise continues to attract such an
                    excessive degree of attention is geography professor John Logan Allen's Passage through the Garden: Lewis and Clark and the Image of the American West. Drawing on
                    the methodology of such men as Henry Nash Smith, Leo Marx, and Wallace Stegner, Allen presents the
                    reader with seventeenth and eighteenth century conceptions of what Lewis and Clark expected to
                    encounter and then in fact discovered. As was done in the National Parks volume, Allen praises the
                    expedition's commanders for their meticulous preparations, cool courage, and common sense.
                    Quite appropriately his text is checkered with "probably's,"
                    "apparently's," and warnings that this interpretation is "highly
                    speculative." Bernard DeVoto always insisted that his own detailed knowledge of Far West
                         terrain came not from travel so much as study. Whatever
                    Allen's sources, he reveals a masterful grasp of western physiography. Among the forty-five
                    maps carefully reproduced is the previously unpublished 1803 King map of western North America. The
                    bibliography, although far from inclusive, is satisfactory. Although geographers and historians will
                    make the greatest use of this work, it suggests a variety of fresh approaches to humanistic study.
                    Poets, biographers, even authors of the durable "western," will find
                    Allen's book a stimulating experience.
            
               San Jose State University, San Jose Ted C. Hinckley
         
         
            
               Western River Transportation: The Era of Early Internal Development,
                        1810–1860. By Erik F. Haites, James Mak, and Gary M. Walton. (
                        Baltimore
                    : The Johns Hopkins University Press, 1975. Pp. xi, 209. Notes, map, figures, tables,
                    appendixes, bibliography, index. $12.50.)
            The early decades of the nineteenth century witnessed many important changes in the republic but none
                    more significant than the emergence of the West as a discrete section contending for political and
                    economic equality with the older areas. With the exception of a few hardy pioneers who braved the
                    uncertainties of life beyond the mountains during the colonial period, the population push into the
                    trans-Appalachian West do not begin until the War of 1812. During the half century which followed,
                    the population of the West increased from approximately one million to more than twelve million! It
                    was indeed a period of spectacular growth.
            The quickening tempo of life in the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     valleys was inexorably intertwined with improved transportation. Although many
                    scholarly accounts chronicle the importance of canals and railroads to the rise of the West, few
                    works attempt to isolate and appraise the economic significance of river transportation. Haites,
                    Mak, and Walton correct this omission, presenting a detailed analysis of those natural highways and
                    assessing the role played by both private and public sectors as precipitants for internal
                    improvements. The authors begin with the premise that the broad economic growth which characterized
                    nineteenth century  America resulted from an expanded market
                    economy, and they point to the unique relationship between the emergence of the West and ease of
                    access. Although the West was linked to national and world markets by three natural routes, Haites,
                    Mak, and Walton conclude that during most of the antebellum period the southern artery was dominant.
                    From 
                        Pittsburgh
                     and 
                  Cincinnati, Louisville
                and 
                        St. Louis
                    , goods moved in increasing volume down the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     to the southern gateway, 
                        New Orleans
                    . Although the canals and railroads finally resulted in a reorientation in the flow of
                    traffic from south to east in the 1850s, the Crescent City remained an important commercial center
                    to the West throughout the period.
            Demand for cotton and wheat was also among the factors which contributed to the lure of the West, and
                    the book notes the influence that commodity prices exerted on land sales in both the Southwest and
                    Northwest. And yet, without a dependable and inexpensive transportation system linking the land to
                    the outside, favorable prices were meaningless. Thus, perhaps the rise of the West can best be told
                    in terms of the keelboat, flatboat, and particularly the steamboat. Although the relative importance
                    of steamboating slackened in the 1840s, it was still judged responsible for "an impressive
                    surge of productivity to inland water transportation" (p. 72). The authors challenge the
                    long accepted view that railroad competition forced steamboating into an actual decline in the
                    1850s. Inevitably the history of transportation on western waters is filled with attempts to
                    restrict competition and create monopolies, but these efforts failed largely because of
                    "the subtle interplay of market forces that takes place in situations where ease of entry
                    is not cut off by government regulations …" (p. 47). Few will question the
                    conclusion that the emergence of the West was inseparable from the history of the rivers.
            The authors make extensive use of primary sources and possess an excellent knowledge of secondary
                    works which deal with the subject. The work is further enhanced by numerous tables and appendixes
                    which support conclusions in the text. Economic historians and those with an interest in this period
                    of history will find the book of great value.
            
               Miami University, 
                     Oxford, Ohio
                  
                Richard M. Jellison
         
         
         
            
               Hired Hands and Plowboys: Farm Labor in the Midwest, 1815–60. By
                    David E. Schob. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1975. Pp. viii, 329. Notes, tables, map, bibliography, index.
                    $10.95.)
            The historical study of everyday life need not be mundane or spiritless—witness the
                    diverse scholarly contributions in this genre by such historians as Eileen Power, E. P. Thompson,
                    Allan Bogue, and Herbert Gutman. Yet there has been relatively little known about farm
                    labor—the type of work that occupied the vast majority of Americans until well into the
                    late nineteenth century. Farm labor has been a subject largely eschewed even by those historians who
                    study work and workers rather than unions and organization. Agricultural historians have tended to
                    concentrate their attention upon the farmer-owner and the problem of mechanization. And economic
                    historians have tended to consider farm labor mainly in connection with macrolevel problems such as
                    productivity indexes. Even the scholars who have written most about agricultural history in the last
                    few decades have been discouraged by the problem of elusive documentation on farm work and workers.
                    Thus, Paul Wallace Gates asserts in Agriculture and the Civil War (1965):
                    "Less is known about farm laborers than any other element in agriculture because, except
                    for those who served as laborers only temporarily, they left few letters, no diaries, and no
                    autobiographies" (p. 190). Consequently, historical studies have been far more informative
                    on the subject of antebellum black slave labor than on the life and labor of white farm workers in
                    the North.
            The appearance of this fine book by David Schob changes all that. It is an invaluable, in many
                    respects a definitive, study of wage workers in midwestern farming—a book built on
                    prodigious research in an astonishing range and volume of primary sources. The latter include not
                    only the letters and materials that Gates and other historians have doubted were extant but also a
                    vast wealth of material in the agricultural press, local and county histories, government documents,
                    and newspapers. As Schob reminds the reader, farming was in considerable measure "a
                    complicated operation requiring specialized laborers" (p. 4). Among the specialties to
                    which the author devotes attention in separate chapters are "set-up"  work (land clearing), prairie breaking, teamstering, harvesting,
                    horticulture, and ditching and well digging. For each of them he provides data on wages and
                    contractual arrangements. He also describes painstakingly the technical aspects of the work and how
                    each specialty (whether performed by itinerants or general farmhands) fits into overall farm life
                    and management.
            Abundant quotations from contemporary sources such as recollections and instructional literature
                    illustrate the analysis. If the book is faulted, it is perhaps by its occasional overabundance in
                    this regard; but it is a meager price to pay for "the resultant richness of detail and for
                    an understanding of complexities and of variation by locales.
            Other chapters deal with hired boys, hired girls, legal norms and customs, and leisure and
                    recreation. Throughout the book Schob systematically introduces the findings of economic historians
                    such as Stanley Lebergott on wages, Joel Primack on construction costs, and Paul David on adoption
                    of the reaper. Unfortunately the book went to press too late to incorporate Alan Olmstead's
                    important research (Journal of Economic History, June, 1975) refuting the burden
                    of David's work on the reaper. Also appearing too recently were important studies of farm
                    productivity by Richard Easterlin and Robert Gallman in Essays in Nineteenth Century
                        Economic History: The Old Northwest (David C. Klingaman and Richard K. Vedder, eds., 1975).
                    It will be interesting to have, as one hopes, Schob's evaluation of Gallman's
                    intriguing contention that "the typical agricultural worker—slaves
                    apart—was unable (and perhaps unwilling) to fill his year with work" in the
                    nineteenth century.
            Many of today's middle generation of American historians had the advantage of studying with
                    scholars like Harry J. Carman, Gates, or Oscar Winther, who could speak at first hand of farm life
                    and labor in their own early years. As the heritage of agrarian America recedes in time, it is
                    doubly important to have books, such as this one, that rescue an important subject on everyday life
                    from historical obscurity. Thorough, workmanlike, and absorbing, Professor Schob's study is
                    a highly welcome addition to the literature of American agricultural and labor history.
            
               University of 
                            California
                        , San Diego Harry N. Scheiber
         
         
         
            
               Journey in Faith: A History of the Christian Church (Disciples of Christ). By
                    Lester G. McAllister and William E. Tucker. (
                        St. Louis
                    : The Bethany Press, 1975. Pp. 505. End maps, notes, illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $12.95.)
            This authoritative book on the first major religious denomination to spring from the soil and spirit
                    of the American frontier represents the vision of Howard E. Short, distinguished editor emeritus of
                    the Christian Board of Publication. In 1971 Short, convinced of the need for a reexamination of the
                    Christian church (Disciples of Christ) in the current social and religious scene, enlisted to write
                    such a study two able professors of modern church history, Dr. Lester G. McAllister of Christian
                    Theological Seminary, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , and Dean William E. Tucker of Brite Divinity School, 
                        Texas
                     Christian University, Fort Worth.
            The McAllister-Tucker book represents a well researched and ably written update of the 1948 analysis
                    of the Christian church's life encompassed in The Disciples of Christ: A
                        History by Winfred E. Garrison and Alfred T. DeGroot. As McAllister and Tucker point out,
                    they have dealt with that "collision of values and viewpoints, especially in the
                    1960's, which shook the foundations of church and society in North America and shattered
                    the triumphalism inherited from former eras" (p. 9). The book is the more valuable because
                    the authors have elected not to view in isolation the religious movement which originated with
                    Barton Stone, Walter Scott, and Thomas and Alexander Campbell 150 years ago but to place it within
                    the context of Christianity in North America. They have also gained a commendable degree of vitality
                    in the realization of their aim of relating "the life and thought of a church in process of
                    developing" (p. 10).
            An interesting methodology was followed in writing the book. After determining together the scope and
                    delineating the subjects to be treated, McAllister assumed responsibility for writing ten chapters
                    and compiling the index while Tucker wrote eight chapters and prepared the comprehensive annotated
                    bibliography and the helpful timeline (the only observable deficiency in the latter being omission
                    of the formation of the National Council of Churches in 1950).
            McAllister and Tucker have captured the drama of Disciples' rootage in the dynamic preaching
                    of Barton Stone in  the Cane Ridge, 
                        Kentucky
                    , Camp Meeting, the systematic theology of Walter Scott, the organizing and
                    propagandizing genius of the Campbells. The authors trace with clarity the possibility of containing
                    the new movement within Presbyterianism, among the Baptists, or in connection with the breakaway
                    Methodists gathered around James O'Kelley. Such relationships failed to satisfy these
                    seekers for religious truth, so in 1830 they dissolved their last ties with older bodies represented
                    by the Mahoning (Baptist) Association and struck out on their own. In 1832 two
                    elements—the Christians and the Disciples—were united at
                            
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , and a new church was launched, one which has never been able
                    to determine which strain to perpetuate in its name, a struggle reflected in the present designation
                    "Christian Church (Disciples of Christ)." In the book one can follow the spread of
                    this congregationally oriented, New Testament based, noncreedal, adult immersionist, unity seeking
                    fellowship across the West. One senses the pain of the divisions encouraged by the very independency
                    which brought the movement to birth. The book mirrors the evangelistic fervor of
                    "Christians" in the early 1900s, their wrestling with the issues of war and social
                    upheavals, and the final decisions less than a decade ago to restructure the movement as a
                    "church," terminating the delusion of unity with the many independent
                    congregations called "Christian" or "Churches of Christ."
            McAllister and Tucker have made a praiseworthy contribution to the literature of religious history in
                    the 
                        United States
                    .
            
               The Indiana Council of Churches, 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                Grover L. Hartman
         
         
            
               Tenure, Nativity and Age as Factors in 
                            Iowa
                         Agriculture, 1850–1880. By Seddie Cogswell, Jr. Replica edition.
                    (Ames: The 
                        Iowa
                     State University Press, 1975. Pp. vi, 170. Figures, notes, tables, bibliography, index.
                    Paper-bound, $5.00.)
            This small volume by Seddie Cogswell carefully traces farm ownership and tenancy in 
                        Iowa
                     during the years between 1850 and 1880. Almost entirely based upon data obtained from
                    manuscript schedules I and IV of the federal  census for 1850,
                    1860, 1870, and 1880, the study examines the factors of age, nativity, farm size, and the growing
                    values of land, livestock, and machinery as they relate to farm ownership and tenancy. The author
                    has selected as his sample twenty-six townships in six contiguous counties (Cedar, Clinton, Jackson,
                    Jones, Muscatine, and Scott) located in eastern 
                        Iowa
                    .
            As in the rest of the nation, farm tenancy expanded in 
                        Iowa
                     in these years, increasing from 17.6 percent in 1850 to 27.3 percent in 1880. A major
                    reason for the increase was the greater capital required to start farming, the total valuation of
                    land, livestock, and machinery on an average 
                        Iowa
                     farm increasing from $1,443 in 1850 to $5,842 in 1880. Little
                    evidence was found that tenancy was associated with a distressed class of farmers. Instead it was
                    normally the first rung on the ladder of agricultural success. Cogswell discovered that most tenants
                    were the younger farmers; in 1880 six out of ten farmers under thirty years of age were tenants. The
                    author found only minor differences in the degree of tenancy among native and foreign born farmers,
                    with the data suggesting that the foreign born experienced few significant difficulties in adjusting
                    to prairie farming in a new land.
            A study of this kind naturally is short on specific illustrations and anecdote and long on tables and
                    figures. The bulk of the book is based upon the data revealed in forty statistical tables. Professor
                    Cogswell has written a significant study of the early development of farm tenancy in mid-America.
            
               Purdue University, 
                            West Lafayette
                        
                John F. Stover
         
         
            
               The University of South Dakota, 1862–1966. By Cedric Cummins. (
                        Vermillion
                    , S.D.: Dakota Press, 1975. Pp. 334. Maps, notes, tables, illustrations, appendixes,
                    bibliography, index. Clothbound, $8.95; paperbound, $4.95.)
            Professor Cedric Cummins has attempted to write an institutional history based essentially on events
                    and developments rather than to record a chronicle of the deeds and work of personalities. As this
                    history of the University of South Dakota evolves, the author strives to use the book to serve  three major functions: first, to provide an understanding of
                    the university and a source for nostalgic memories for alumni and friends; second, to establish a
                    reference book to which interested persons may turn for data and material; and third, to record
                    "the major trends in higher education played out in the environment of the Upper Great
                    Plains" (p. 1).
            The author addresses a sweep of institutional history of more than one hundred years
                    (1862–1966). Although he is in excellent possession of his facts, Cummins has recounted
                    several unimportant events at different points in the book which could have been omitted. However,
                    he fulfills the major purposes for writing the book with expertise. It is obvious that he has great
                    love for the University of South Dakota; this is reflected in the nostalgic style and verbal
                    descriptions he uses in referring to the important people and events in the life of the university.
            This history is not only important for the purposes for which it was written but also because it
                    represents a significant case study of the strength, vitality, and dynamism of institutions of
                    higher learning in general. The University of South Dakota, like so many other colleges and
                    universities in the 
                        United States
                    , has survived several economic depressions or recessions, two major wars, and a variety
                    of other trials and tribulations. These problems are not peculiar to South Dakota but have been
                    vital to the history of most American colleges and universities. Cummins' strongest
                    contribution is his analysis and description of the "Golden Age" of higher
                    education in the Upper Great Plains. He writes glowingly of the growth and maturation of the
                    University of South Dakota as it broke the bonds of provincialism and localism and became an
                    important element in the "Golden Age."
            There is nothing more invigorating than to examine the life and times of a college or university. Its
                    pedigree and performance can be judged by the quality of its people and by the dynamism of its
                    development. There is no agency of society which is more characterized by spirit and atmosphere,
                    both of which provide a firm foundation for understanding the human dimensions of its history.
                    Cummins has done an excellent job in capturing the spirit and atmosphere which make the factual
                    history readable and realistic.
            Will Durant once wrote: "Most history is guessing, the rest is prejudice." Cummins
                    could well be accused of prejudice,  but he could never be
                    accused of guessing. His historical account is well researched, thorough, and complete. A history
                    is, above all, the creation and recording of heritage. Of course, history not only reflects heritage
                    and the past; it must also partially forecast the future. Cummins has strong convictions about the
                    past of the University of South Dakota, but that conviction is less strong when he looks to the
                    future. The author concludes his book with these observations: "The future personality of
                    the University of South Dakota and other state universities remain undefined. But if the concept of
                    continuity of history is valid, the future is already on the campus. Time will identify it"
                    (p. 310).
            
               
                  
                            Hanover
                         College, 
                            Hanover
                        , Ind. John E. Horner
         
         
            
               Slavery and the Numbers Game: A Critique of Time on the Cross. By Herbert G.
                    Gutman. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1975. Pp. 183. Notes, tables, index. Cloth-bound, $7.95; paperbound,
                    $2.95.)
            Seldom has a book of historical scholarship received the attention accorded Time on the
                        Cross (1974) by Robert W. Fogel and Stanley L. Engerman. The book was widely reviewed in
                    the public press and in the national news magazines; at least two national conferences have brought
                    scholars together for several days to discuss it; to date two full volumes have appeared in response
                    to the book while several historical journals have devoted an extraordinary amount of space to
                    critical reviews. This astounding response may be traced, in part at least, to the authors'
                    revisionist interpretation of black slavery in America as well as to their new methodology. Fogel
                    and Engerman argue that their use of modern economic theory and statistical inference aided by the
                    computer has enabled them to overturn what they call the "traditional"
                    interpretation and to replace it with a scientific, empirically tested view.
            Social historian Herbert G. Gutman disputes both the methodology and the interpretation; the result
                    is a devastating critique accompanied by the outlines of a positive re-evaluation of the social
                    history of black slavery in America. Gutman ignores much of Fogel's and Engerman's
                    economic analysis—which other critics have stressed—and instead concentrates
                         on the social history of blacks under slavery. He carefully
                    investigates Fogel's and Engerman's analysis of labor incentives and their effects
                    and of marriage and the family under slavery and concludes unequivocally that the findings in Time on the Cross are flawed and misleading.
            Gutman is not a methodological conservative. He does not argue, as some historians have, that
                    quantification and computer aided research is useless and necessarily misleading. On the contrary,
                    he maintains that such new methods can be helpful to the historian, and he uses them himself. What
                    he does argue is that these methods (like all methods used by historians) are based on certain
                    assumptions that must be investigated and verified and that the results are not self evident but
                    require interpretation. The weakness in Fogel's and Engerman's work, he argues, is
                    not that they have used quantification as a methodology but that they have misused it.
            Gutman's major criticism is that the two authors have misunderstood the effects of the slave
                    experience on black culture. He argues that they, like many other historians, see black culture as
                    merely derivative, as little more than the response to and the reflection of white culture. Where
                    some historians stress the destructive effects of the slave experience on black culture and the
                    slave's personality, Fogel and Engerman, says Gutman, attempt to prove that the slaves
                    "internalized" the capitalist ethic and the Victorian morality of the master
                    class. Neither view is correct, he concludes, and he suggests instead that "the adaptive
                    capacities of generations of enslaved Afro-Americans encouraged and sustained the development of a
                    distinctive family and kinship system among them while enslaved in Anglo-American society"
                    (p. 88). Because this book is mainly a critique of another point of view, readers will get only a
                    hint of Gutman's description of that distinctive Afro-American culture. For the details
                    historians will have to wait for the appearance of his book on the subject which is scheduled for
                    publication later this year. In the meantime, this book, along with Time on the
                    Cross, may be read with profit both for what they reveal about slavery in American history and
                    for their insights into historical methodology.
            
               Purdue University, 
                            West Lafayette
                        
                Harold D. Woodman
         
         
         
            
               Black Americans and the White Man's Burden, 1898–1903. By
                    Willard B. Gatewood, Jr. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1975. Pp. xi, 352. Notes, bibliography, index. $12.95.)
            This study explores black involvement in the emergence of the 
                        United States
                     as a colonial power. Focusing primarily on the Negro press and black soldiering during
                    the Spanish American War and its aftermath, Willard Gatewood assesses Negro difficulties in a period
                    that also included an increase in racial segregation throughout the nation. He provides insight into
                    the conflicting responses within the black community to the new foreign and domestic conditions.
                    Through his analysis an interpretation of Negro leadership is presented which is more complex than
                    those stressing mainly the clash between Booker T. Washington and William E. B. Du Bois.
            The struggle between 
                        Spain
                     and the 
                        United States
                     constitutes the broad context for this book. Gatewood first establishes the general
                    setting of the 1890s. He then probes black views on overseas expansion, particularly in the
                    Caribbean, and finds that despite reservations a majority of Negroes initially favored colonial
                    enterprises. With most other American blacks responded indignantly to the loss of the 
                        
                            Maine
                        
                     and supported the declaration of war on 
                        Spain
                    . Following this, Gatewood discusses the activities of black troops as well as the
                    noncombatant and civilian roles of blacks during the war. He notes growing Negro disillusionment
                    over the failure of participation in war abroad to stem the loss of political rights at home. In
                    late 1898 black poet Paul Laurence Dunbar criticized the prevailing white view on this development.
                    He stated that most whites were guilty of saying: "You may fight for us but you may not
                    vote for us" (p. 110). The realization that a "
                        Cuba
                     Libre" offered few tangible rewards and that Afro-Cubans resented any
                    emigration of their black "kinsmen" led to declining Negro interest in the
                    recently liberated country.
            The rise of an antiimperialistic tendancy marked this new black attitude on American expansion.
                    Gatewood found widespread concurrence among Negro newspaper editors with the broader opposition to
                    the war effort. Black spokesmen, for example, joined in the attack on Rudyard Kipling's
                    famous poem as a sign of racially oriented motives behind colonialism. In rephrasing
                    Kipling's work one Negro clergyman  wrote:
                    "Pile on the Black Man's Burden / His wail with laughter drown" (p. 184).
                    By 1900 such views encouraged a sizeable minority of blacks to forsake the Republican banner and
                    cast their vote for William Jennings Bryan. Over the next two years the black troop experience in
                    the Philippines proved a bitter involvement for Negro Americans. With such experience as the final
                    proof most blacks came to realize that colonialism had only helped consolidate the shift
                    domestically toward discriminatory racial politics and explicit white supremacist ideas.
            This study is an excellent example of the use of neglected source materials to enrich a period of
                    history. Gatewood examines the views of black journalists and editors in Negro weeklies and
                    magazines and concludes that their positions were far more varied than previously realized. Combined
                    with extensive reliance on manuscript materials, army records, and autobiographies,
                    Gatewood's presentation of black editorial opinions represents a solid basis for a subject
                    that he consistently treats with careful organization and graceful prose.
            
               
                  
                            Georgetown
                         University, 
                        Washington
                    , D. C. Ronald M. Johnson
         
         
            
               John Hay: The Gentleman as Diplomat. By Kenton J. Clymer. (
                        Ann Arbor
                    : The University of 
                        Michigan
                     Press, 1975. Pp. ix, 314. Frontispiece, notes, essay on sources, bibliography, index.
                    $15.00.)
            Since Tyler Dennett published his magisterial biography of John Hay in 1933 (John Hay:
                        From Poetry to Politics), no one has attempted to match him until now. In the meantime
                    Hay's reputation as secretary of state has somewhat declined. Beginning in the mid-1950s,
                    Howard K. Beale, Raymond Esthus, and others have rehabilitated Theodore Roosevelt as a maker of
                    foreign policy, and biographers such as Margaret Leech and H. Wayne Morgan have rediscovered William
                    McKinley. It is altogether appropriate that some one should reexamine the career of John Hay in this
                    new milieu, making use of source materials and secondary accounts not available to Dennett. Kenton
                    J. Clymer has done a reasonable job of the reappraisal, coming to some different  conclusions from those of Dennett. His biography supplements but does
                    not supersede the older work; future historians probably should read them both.
            As they do so, they may have the unhappy feeling that Hay does not deserve all that effort on their
                    part. A secretary and daily intimate of Abraham Lincoln, a successful businessman, an admired
                    author, a wealthy socialite, a brilliant wit in a circle of intellectuals, and, at the end, a
                    secretary of state during a transition period in 
                        United States
                     history, he was a man to whom many things came easily. Dennett admits that Hay was both
                    lazy and lucky but insists that he was one of America's great secretaries of state. Clymer,
                    having studied the refurbished careers of McKinley and Roosevelt, is not so sure. He also sees, more
                    clearly than Dennett, Hay's intense, even vindictive, anti-Democratic partisanship, his
                    snobbishness, and his double dealing ways with even his closest friends. (Some of them, especially
                    Henry Adams, were just as catty as he.)
            Clymer makes an important contribution in his sharper awareness of Hay's social and
                    political thought (to which he devotes two out of nine chapters), emphasizing the right-ward drift
                    of his ideas during the 1870s and 1880s. The two biographers' accounts of Hay's
                    anonymous antiunion novel, The Bread-winners, are revealingly different. Dennett
                    sees the book as "less a social study than a study of society in the higher
                    altitudes" (Dennett, John Hay, p. 107), while to Clymer it represents an
                    "open repudiation of the social democracy found in his early works … an explicit
                    denunciation of Jacksonian Democracy" (p. 40). Concerning Hay's diplomacy, Clymer
                    frankly admits the secretary of state's Anglophilia, while Dennett either denies it or
                    tries to explain it away. Dennett's account of diplomatic questions is usually fuller,
                    while Clymer's naturally benefits from up to date scholarship at several points.
            Even in style the books are unlike, Dennett's being somewhat prolix and flowery, and
                    Clymer's occasionally gauche, with a sprinkling of typographical errors and other
                    misspelled words. The modern reader will sometimes feel that Dennett has told him more than he wants
                    to know and Clymer not enough.
            
               Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
                David M. Pletcher
         
         
         
            
               William Allen White: Maverick on Main Street. By John DeWitt McKee. (
                        Westport
                    , 
                        Conn.
                    : Greenwood Press, 1975. Pp. x, 264. Notes, selected bibliography, index.
                    $12.95.)
            If 
                        Kansas
                    ' William Allen White were living today, he would quickly and correctly be
                    charged with advocacy journalism, which he and most other newspapermen of his day practiced to the
                    hilt. The publisher of the 
                        Emporia
                    
                    Gazette, a literate, sensitive, and able man who spent his life in two worlds,
                    journalism and politics, had no problem with having one foot in each or moving from one world to the
                    other. He was both a nationally and internationally known publisher, columnist, and editorial writer
                    and a highly partisan Republican.
            As author John DeWitt McKee points out in this excellent, well written, and superbly researched book,
                    White's age was an age of personal journalism, and one dominated by newspapers. Only in
                    White's last years did radio get its foot in the door of the news business; there was no
                    television in his lifetime.
            The highlight of McKee's book about this remarkable American may be the account of
                    White's long efforts to make his beloved Republican party a faithful reflection of what he
                    perceived as the real needs and aspirations of the people. He worked toward that goal with
                    presidential candidates from Theodore Roosevelt to Wendell Willkie. For White, always a prairie
                    populist at heart and usually in practice, success was mixed at best. He hated to see TR lose in
                    1912, and Roosevelt's death in 1919 was a heavy blow.
            As the 
                        United States
                     drifted toward involvement in World War II, White worked to keep the 
                        United States
                     out, founding the Committee to Defend America by Aiding the Allies. But after Pearl
                    Harbor he went all out in the effort to win the war. After all, he said, William Allen White would
                    be one of the first people Hitler would hang.
            The man could write—forcefully, effectively, dramatically. The 1896 editorial which made
                    his reputation—"What's The Matter With 
                        Kansas
                    ?"—was simply the first of dozens which made people stop, read,
                    think—and even change their minds. He could write of the soul and spirit too. His tribute
                    to his daughter Mary, after her death in an accident in 1921, 
                    remains some of the most moving writing in American journalism.
            In the final chapter of the book McKee writes: "William Allen White was never as liberal as
                    he thought himself; certainly he was never the radical he called himself" (p. 198). And in
                    the same chapter McKee comments that all his life White stood in the broad middle way of midwestern
                    liberalism, throwing brickbats at the extremists on either side of the highway. "Because
                    democratic liberalism has so many shades and because William Allen White felt free to more over the
                    whole spectrum of that liberalism, he confused his friends and enraged his enemies" (p.
                    202).
            McKee, professor of English at the 
                        New Mexico
                     Institute of Mining and Technology, has written a fine work. There is no trace of
                    literary sterility. White comes through as a flesh and blood human, deeply involved in the passions
                    and controversies of his time, a newspaperman and politician who made a significant contribution to
                    his nation in both fields.
            
               
                  
                            Indianapolis
                         News Edward H. Ziegner
         
         
            
               A Little Group of Willful Men: A Study of Congressional-Presidential Authority.
                    By Thomas H. Ryley. (
                        Port Washington
                    , N.Y.: Kennikat Press, 1975. Pp. 198. Notes, bibliography, index. $12.95.)
            In early 1917 a small coalition of 
                        United States
                     senators filibustered to death the so called Armed Ship Bill which would have given
                    President Woodrow Wilson authority to place weapons on American merchant ships. The successful
                    Senate effort provoked Wilson into firing his famous arrow of wrath at the "little group of
                    willful men" who, "representing no opinion but their own, have rendered the great
                    government of the 
                        United States
                     helpless and contemptible" (p. 3).
            Although this dispute has been obscured in history by Wilson's later battle with Congress
                    over 
                        United States
                     membership in the League of Nations, the struggle was no small matter. It involved some
                    of the great names in Senate history (George W. Norris, Robert M. La Follette, Henry Cabot Lodge)
                    and dealt with a major foreign policy issue. The outcome not only exercised an impact on the
                    operating procedures of the Senate (the first cloture rule ever was adopted  following the filibuster) but also affected domestic and world
                    politics.
            Thomas W. Ryley's slim volume provides a dispassionate discussion of the events and players
                    in the debate over the Armed Ship Bill. Ryley carefully reviews source material, giving a balanced
                    assessment of the motivations and tactics of the opponents of the legislation as well as an analysis
                    of whether a filibuster actually took place or whether there was merely "extended
                    debate." The book is useful beyond its immediate topic for, as Ryley himself points out, he
                    treats a subject over which there has been similar controversy in the last decade and a half, the
                    appropriate role of Congress in American foreign policy.
            Ryley provides carefully documented illustrations of tactics in the dispute, tactics used even today
                    by the executive branch to get its way with Congress on foreign policy matters: a major presidential
                    address, an invocation of the urgency of action (Wilson's speech was delivered less than
                    six days before Congress adjourned), a carefully timed release of significant information (the
                    Zimmerman note), and an unwillingness to accept amendments.
            Perhaps the most instructive result of the armed ship debate was Wilson's action immediately
                    following the death of the bill. Ryley recounts how, four days after Congress adjourned without
                    passing the measure, Wilson, lacking congressional authority, began to explore ways to arm merchant
                    ships by using his power as commander in chief. His decision to arm them was announced the following
                    day.
            The consequence of the debate and filibuster on the Armed Ship Bill then was startling, although,
                    viewed in 1976 against the events of the last decade, not unfamiliar. The action did not change
                    Wilson's course: sans congressional sanction he nonetheless armed the ships. It was, of
                    course, similar executive disregard for Congress which during the 1960s and 1970s prompted Congress
                    to enact over President Richard M. Nixon's veto the War Powers Act, preventing presidents
                    from exercising war making or quasi-war making powers without the express consent of Congress.
            Ryley's book leaves the impression that the senators who opposed the bill were not at all a
                    "little group of willful men" but rather a coalition of dedicated persons who, for
                    a variety of reasons, felt it necessary to oppose Wilson's steamroller  methods. Their efforts gave rise to the same question often faced today
                    when people in the executive branch of government—some in very high
                    places—despite their rhetoric about the joys of executive-legislative
                    "partnership" in foreign affairs, do not really believe that Congress should be
                    significantly involved in the shaping of foreign policy. Although the Constitution assigns to the
                    president chief responsibility for the conduct of foreign policy, there are, in this
                    reviewer's opinion, three major roles appropriate to Congress in this field. First,
                    Congress can establish—through law or in other ways—or give sanction to,
                    certain principles that govern the nation's foreign affairs. Second, Congress can oversee
                    the implementation of these principles by the executive branch. Clearly, Congress
                    cannot—nor should it—run foreign policy on a day to day basis. But, equally
                    clearly, Congress has the right, indeed the obligation, to monitor the executive branch in its
                    direction of international affairs. Third, under the Constitution, it is Congress that has power to
                    appropriate the money essential to the carrying out of policy abroad as well as at home.
            Recent events have demonstrated the importance to the national interest of an active Congress
                    vigorously exercising its responsibilities in foreign policymaking. Professor Ryley's book
                    is a case study which illumines this crucial though still unresolved issue.
            
               Member of Congress, Third District, Indiana John Brademas
         
         
            
               The New Deal. Volume I, The National Level; volume II, The State and Local Levels. Edited by John Braeman, Robert H. Bremner, and David
                    Brody. (
                        Columbus
                    : 
                        Ohio
                     State University Press, 1975. Pp. xv, 341; xiv, 434. Notes, tables, figures, indexes.
                    Set, $30.00.)
            One of the finest historical series currently being published by a major university press is 
                        Ohio
                     State's Modern America. Begun in 1964 and edited by John
                    Braeman (University of 
                        Nebraska
                    ), Robert Bremner (
                        Ohio
                     State), and David Brody (University of 
                        California
                    —Davis), the books deal with important themes in twentieth century American
                    history and represent significant monographic contributions  to
                    the historiography of progressivism, the 1920s, foreign policy, and now—in these two
                    volumes—the New Deal. The editors have gathered twenty-four articles which discuss a
                    variety of interesting themes. Many constitute first rate analytical interpretations of previously
                    unexamined questions; few do not succeed in either provoking critical thinking or causing
                    modifications in the assessments presently held about particular politicians and programs or the
                    broad contours of the New Deal. If historians are ever to move beyond the dreary debates about the
                    New Deal as "revolutionary" or "conservative," or as an
                    effective fusion or reconciliation of "change and continuity," it will be
                    necessary to evaluate discrete aspects of ideas which are increasingly being taken for granted. The
                    1930s have been particularly vulnerable to the audacious generalization unrooted in primary
                    research. Too often the historians' understanding of this era has been affected by people
                    Samuel Eliot Morison once described as "so superior in intellect that they can give you the
                    essence of an era without the labor of reading the sources." In these volumes, however, the
                    emphasis is upon thorough immersion in the manuscript sources and secondary literature of the period
                    and the formulation of less sweeping but more satisfying conclusions about the New Deal.
            Volume I is devoted exclusively to the national dimension of New Deal affairs and contains articles
                    which break new ground or help to solidify a formerly impressionistic judgment with firm documentary
                    exposition and rigorous analysis. There are valuable essays such as Richard Polenberg's
                    recreation of the atrophy of domestic reform, Jerald Auerbach's investigation of the
                    sociological origins of the legal profession and the rise of a new professional elite, Albert
                    Romasco's identification of the liberal and conservative historians who represented Herbert
                    Hoover and Franklin D. Roosevelt as antithetical polarities in American history, Ellis
                    Hawley's contention that the New Deal shift was "not from laissez-faire to a
                    managed economy but rather from one attempt at management, that through informal federal-government
                    cooperation to another more formal and coercive attempt" (p. 157), and David
                    Brody's demonstration of how World War II revealed the ideological and intellectual
                    limitations of the New Deal. Richard Kirkendall provides a stimulating investigation of the intimate
                    and obscure patterns of  agricultural politics, and Milton
                    Berber conveniently summarizes New Deal labor relations.
            In Volume II the focus is shifted from 
                        Washington
                     to the states and localities, and a very interesting combination of essays unravels
                    complicated aspects of administrative and political history. These essays undermine the myth that
                    the New Deal unilaterally dictated policies and procedures to timid and complacent states. David
                    Maurer shows the intense opposition to federal relief in 
                        Ohio
                    ; Robert Hunter examines a similar ethos against the federal government in 
                        Virginia
                    ; John Moore illuminates the treacherous machinations of the Huey P. Long forces in 
                        Louisiana
                    ; and Keith Bryant describes the marginal impact of the New Deal upon 
                        Oklahoma
                    . F. Alan Coombs' account of 
                        Colorado
                    , Michael Malone's of 
                        Montana
                    , and James Wickens' of 
                        Colorado
                     each indicate that the New Deal neither transformed the political attitudes of the
                    various states nor rendered them satellites of the federal government. William Pickens, however,
                    discovers a more far reaching impact upon 
                        New Mexico
                    . Harold Gorvine's interpretation of 
                        Massachusetts
                     politics shows the lack of cooperation between national and state Democrats, and
                    Richard Keller traces the achievements of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    's Little New Deal. Bruce Stave's depiction of 
                        Pittsburgh
                    's relationship with the New Deal and Llyle Dorsett's account of how 
                        Kansas
                     City's works program influenced the national New Deal are both excellent
                    papers.
            While it is difficult to characterize twenty-four separate papers on the basis of their shared
                    conclusions, judgments, or intrinsic quality, it can be said that these two volumes will serve
                    historians well and become indispensable guides to the historiography of the New Deal.
            
               University of 
                     Michigan,
                                Ann Arbor
                  
                Frank
                Annunziata
         
         
         
            Review Notices∗
            
            
               Women's History: Resources at the State Historical Society of 
                            Wisconsin
                        . By James P. Danky and Eleanor McKay. Second edition. (
                        Madison
                    : The State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , 1975. Pp. 23. Illustrations. Pamphlet, $1.00.) This mimeographed item is
                    difficult to describe and classify. Although in some ways it serves as a guide to material which
                    concerns women and which is held by the State Historical Society of 
                        Wisconsin
                    , for the most part it offers information and clues concerning collections in which
                    material about women can be found. Much of what is indicated, not surprisingly, would serve equally
                    well for those interested in the study of men—notably federal and territorial census
                    records, genealogical materials, newspaper files, and governmental publications at state as well as
                    federal levels. Other clues and suggestions, such as comments about holdings regarding suffrage
                    movements and a variety of clubs and organizations composed of (or at least dominated by) women, are
                    presumably mainly useful as regards the history of women.
            
               Manuscript Sources in the Library of Congress for Research on the American
                    Revolution. Compiled by John R. Sellers et al. (
                        Washington
                    : Library of Congress, 1975. Pp. iii, 372. Subject index. $8.70.) The content
                    of this guide for researchers is well described by its title. Moreover, its table of contents spells
                    out the variety of manuscript holdings referred to and indicates items which are reproductions from
                    sources in other countries. Information is offered about copy in microfilm, transcript, and
                    photostat as well as that in the original. The book's usefulness may be illustrated by the
                    suggestion that its index lists various references to collections containing manuscript material
                    about George Rogers Clark. The Library of Congress merits commendation for having published so
                    valuable a guide as one of its enduring contributions to the American Revolution Bicentennial. This
                    volume can be purchased from the Superintendent of Documents, 
                        United States
                     Government Printing Office, 
                        Washington
                    , D.C. 20402.
            
               
                  ∗ Unless otherwise indicated all review notices have been
                        written by Donald F. Carmony who retired as editor of the Indiana Magazine of
                            History effective January 1, 1976.
            
            
            
               Revolutionary War Soldiers of 
                            Harrison County
                        , Indiana. By Arville L. Funk. (Corydon, Ind.: ALFCO Publications, published in
                    cooperation with the 
                        Harrison County
                     Bicentennial Committee, 1975. Pp. 37. Maps, illustrations, index. Booklet,
                    $1.75.) Funk lists Revolutionary War veterans "either pensioned or buried in 
                        Harrison County
                    " according to records he has used. His count includes seventy-one such
                    veterans, but he lists an additional fourteen men about whom he views the evidence as incomplete.
                    This booklet also includes summary historical information about Corydon and 
                        Harrison County
                     as well as a descriptive listing of local historical and scenic places accompanied by a
                    map of the county. The booklet can be purchased from the 
                        Harrison County
                     Bicentennial Committee, P.O. Box 66, Corydon, Indiana 47112.
            
               Preliminary Guide to the Special Collections of Indiana State University 
                            Evansville
                        . Compiled by Josephine M. Elliott. (
                        Evansville
                    : Indiana State University 
                        Evansville
                    , 1975. Pp. 42. Booklet, $.25.) In 1972 the Lilly Endowment gave Indiana
                    State University, 
                        Evansville
                    , seed money to further its acquisition, preservation, and use of archival material
                    regarding the region it serves. This publication is both a report of progress achieved and a guide
                    to manuscripts, tapes, and other items acquired. The results have evidently been quite favorable to
                    date.
            
               Levi Coffin and the Underground Railroad. By Charles Ludwig. (Scottdale, Pa.:
                    Herald Press, 1975. Pp. 184. $4.95.) There is a need for a brief, well prepared, and
                    readable account of Levi Coffin and his role in the Underground Railroad. Unfortunately
                    Ludwig's work does not serve this purpose. Its invented conversations, its manufactured
                    facts, and its superficial conclusions are much too evident. The book is more novel than history,
                    but even as a novel it would be of marginal value.
            
               John Hunt Morgan and His Raiders. By Edison H. Thomas. (
                        Lexington
                    : The University Press of 
                        Kentucky
                    , 1975. Pp. xii, 119. Maps, illustrations, bibliographical essay. $3.95.)
                    Thomas presents a concise, readable, and informative account of the part played by John Hunt Morgan
                    and his  Confederate raiders during the Civil War. A volume in
                    the 
                        Kentucky
                     Bicentennial Bookshelf, this book is quite useful in placing Morgan and his raiders in
                    historical context and perspective. One chapter considers "The Big Raid" into
                    Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     in 1863 and gives emphasis to the destructiveness of Morgan's men as they
                    foraged through these states. "The Raiders found Indiana to be a land of milk and honey.
                    The countryside to which they had been accustomed had been foraged time and time again, but here
                    were farms untouched by war; where families fled before the Raiders arrived, the food and supplies
                    were there for the taking" (p. 78). Basil W. Duke, who rode with Morgan on various raids,
                    later commented that the "‘wholesale plunder exceeded anything that any of us
                    had ever seen before’" (p. 81).
            
               Documents of 
                            United States
                         Indian Policy. Edited by Francis Paul Prucha. (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1975. Pp. ix, 278. Bibliography, index. Clothbound, $14.95;
                    paperbound, $4.95.) The content, scope, and purpose of this collection of 161 documents
                    regarding Indians of the 
                        United States
                     is succinctly stated in its preface. "These documents," Father Prucha
                    avers, "illustrate the history of the relations between the 
                        United States
                     government and the American Indians from the founding of the nation to the present
                    time" (p. ix). The emphasis is on selected "official and quasi-official
                    records" which reflect "significant formulations of policy" concerning
                    Indian relations by the 
                        United States
                     (p. ix). Thus, the documents are not intended "to show Indian contributions to
                    American society, to indicate wrongs done to the Indians, or to make some other particular
                    point" (p. ix). This excellent volume, made more useful by concise introductions to each
                    document and a selective bibliography, measures up to the high standards that many scholars have
                    come to appreciate and expect from Francis Paul Prucha.
            
               The Education of a Public Man: My Life and Politics. By Hubert H. Humphrey. Edited
                    by Norman Sherman. (
                        New York
                    : Doubleday & Company, 1976. Pp. xiii, 513. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $12.50.) Senator Hubert Humphrey's book is much more than the usual kind of
                    autobiography.  It also is a wide ranging commentary on American
                    politics from about the 1930s to the present. A very personal and often quite revealing account,
                    this volume is frequently amazingly forthright and explicit in indicating the basis for evaluations
                    and views expressed. It will doubtless be poured over as well as pawed and clawed over by
                    historians. The Education of A Public Man is also worthy of careful study by those
                    who seek an increased understanding of how the political system works as well as how politicians
                    function within the system. The citations and explanatory notes are an important part of the book,
                    even though placed at the end of the last chapter. "I wanted most of the footnotes in the
                    body of the book," Humphrey explains, "but the publisher said,
                    ‘No’" (facing p. 440).
            
               Indiana Newspaper History: An Annotated Bibliography. Compiled by Ronald Beathard,
                    Cyndi Lach, and Mark Popovich. (
                        Muncie
                    , 
                        Ind.
                    : Sigma Delta Chi, Department of Journalism, Ball State University, 1975. Pp. 55.
                    Indexes. Pamphlet, $2.00.) This annotated bibliography is an extremely useful
                    introduction or guide to publications about Indiana newspapers. Its more than four hundred entries
                    embrace bibliographies, articles, general histories of Indiana, county histories, gazetteers, and
                    similar sources. The annotated comments are, as might be expected, mainly helpful in indicating the
                    content of items listed rather than in an evaluation of their significance. As the introduction
                    appropriately suggests, Indiana has unfortunately neglected its newspaper history. The Sigma Delta
                    Chi chapter of the Department of Journalism, Ball State University, merits commendation for pointing
                    out this defect but even more for offering aid to those who are interested in research and writing
                    about Indiana newspapers. Copies of Indiana Newspaper History are available from
                    Sigma Delta Chi, Department of Journalism, Ball State University, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana 47306.
            
               Humor In The American Pulpit: From George Whitefield through Henry Ward Beecher. By
                    Doug Adams. (
                        North Aurora
                    , Ill.: Sharing Company, 1975. Pp. xvi, 257. Notes, appendixes, bibliography.
                    Paperbound, $6.95.) Adams essays to study "the dynamics of humor in the
                    Christian worship"  as used by American ministers in
                    the pulpit from George Whitefield of colonial times to Henry Ward Beecher of the nineteenth century
                    (p. iv). The resulting book is principally a compilation of extracts which illustrate the variety
                    and nature of such humor.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
