
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 12, Issue 3, pages 193-286. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:12+issue:3+year:1916&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
            Development of the City School System of Indiana–1851-1880*
            
            By HAROLD LITTELL, A.B., 
                        Logansport
                    , Ind.
            THE EARLY CITY SCHOOLS
            
            OUR present system of public education had its legal foundation in the constitution of 1851. Previous
                    to this, schools were almost wholly private enterprises. In a sense, there were some schools which
                    approached our present system in form, but not in practice. Such schools were kept up by private
                    subscriptions from those who had children to send. And, indeed, that day has not yet entirely
                    passed, as far as secondary training is concerned. Our private normals and colleges of today are
                    nothing more than the outgrowth of the old system of "no taxes, but a tuition for those who
                    attend."
            This old idea of maintaining schools took firm root. It was very difficult in some portions of the
                    State to break away from the old and take up the new method by taxation. At 
                        Greencastle
                    , for example, in 1856 the people sent to Asbury University and the Female Seminary. The
                    public schools amounted to nothing. Corydon, the old State capital, was in the same condition, as
                    the following statement will show:
            "The free school system is accomplishing very little for this place. The amount of school
                    fund is so small, that it really does no good. Citizens are in favor of good schools, but
                    prefer–the prominent ones–supporting 
                  
                     *The footnotes have been omitted In printing this paper.
                            The study is based almost entirely on the official reports of the State superintendent, the
                            files of the Indiana School Journal, and current newspapers.–ED.
               
                     private schools, to paying tax that instruction may be free.
                    There is a large and flourishing Seminary in operation, under the charge of Mr, Bone, an experienced
                    and efficient teacher."
            The attitude of the people was further exemplified in the case of 
                        Rockport
                    , another southern county seat.
            "
                        Rockport
                     is a pretty, thriving town of 1,800 inhabitants. The majority of inhabitants are
                    opposed to a tax necessary to erection of a good school house. Still, Eockport sustains schools and
                    good ones, too. Mr. Smith taught the High School–a private establishment–aided
                    by Miss Turgison. Eockport expended nearly $2,000 during that year for private
                    tuition."
            In 1857 
                        Princeton
                     had two schools in operation–
                        Princeton
                     Academy under H. T. Martin, and another under Mr. Bird, both private enterprises.
                    Citizens supported these schools liberally. No free schools yet existed. In 1857 Anderson had no
                    free schools. Said the State Superintendent in regard to Peru in 1857: "A courthouse
                    costing $5,000, and not a school house in the place." At 
                        Ladoga
                     public schools were in bad condition. An old log house, and a poor school, was the best
                    they had for a free school.
            While this condition existed in many places, others were making feeble efforts even though
                    unsuccessful. Such cities would levy the taxes but were burdened to collect them. The report of the
                    State Superintendent for 1856 gives us an idea of this:
            "We have the statistics from one city in this State, in which $6,000 was
                    assessed, and about $600 of it was taken according to law by the county officers for
                    fees, and it is the same all over the State where taxes are levied for school purposes."
            Again, in other places it seems that the general school interest was lacking. For example, Sullivan,
                    a county seat, had (1857) but a small amount of educational spirit. This was manifested by the
                    condition of the schools and the school building. Of the latter there was nothing deserving the
                    name. The schools were kept in a miserable, dilapidated old building which had formerly been the
                    County Seminary. It was illy suited to the purposes of teaching, and was uncomfortable in the last
                    degree. It was really a disgrace to the place, and, most fortunately for its reputation, stood in
                    the rear of the town so that it was not likely to be seen unless  especially inquired for. Mr. G. Anderson was the teacher in charge, and seemed disposed to do his
                    duty if the house and its furnishings had only let him.
            
               
                        Madison
                    , too, once the pioneer city in the State in the free school cause, had for two years
                    (1855-1856) pursued so illiberal a policy, that she had literally starved out her schools. Her
                    former fine high school had been gradually reduced to the grade of a grammar school; the
                    appropriations were reduced, until finally the schools were stopped.
            In 1857 educational conditions at 
                        Muncie
                     were deplorable. There had been two public schools supported three months, but they
                    were only a farce. Not on account of the fault of the teachers, but because all the children in the
                    town, of every grade, were crowded into the small school houses, rendering it impossible for any
                    teacher to effect an organization that would work harmoniously. The State Superintendent spoke of
                    the 
                        Terre Haute
                     schools as follows:
            "
                        Terre Haute
                    , one of the largest cities in the State, presents the least hopeful prospects in regard
                    to public education. The shortsighted policy which has marked the course of this city in regard to
                    schools, does and will continue to affect unfavorably her prosperity. At this day (1857) a city of
                    eight or ten thousand inhabitants, without public spirit enough to support free schools, has little
                    prospect of growth or pecuniary prosperity."
            Another 
                        Wabash city
                     seemed to be affected similarly. 
                        Vincennes
                     had some 2,000 inhabitants. In educational matters there was generally a great
                    delinquency. Public schools were kept open three or four months, until the school funds were
                    exhausted, when numerous private enterprises sprang up during the summer, to give way again in turn
                    for the annual dispensation of a few dollars from the general school fund. At 
                        Crawfordsville
                     free schools were in session.
            "We had a fine opportunity to see how things are done up there. Two of the 'City
                    Fathers' visited schools with us, and seemed much edified but not proud of their schools.
                    A few notes taken on the spot when filled out by the reader's imagination, will give an
                    idea of what we saw; First room, size 14 x 16, benches, broken chairs, and boards laid from one
                    chair to another, constituted seats. Stands, tables, and boards poorly nailed together, constituted
                    desks. No order but disorder–class in a huddle for want of room; floor dirty; classes
                    disorderly; recite and read badly; thump! thump! goes the stick, with most
                    positive orders to behave, every half-minute; one boy putting a stick into another's
                    ears; children seem  to enjoy themselves well–think
                    it's all right. The second room was an old paint shop, deserted by workmen, hence made a
                    good school room. Room large, but floor covered with mud."
            Notwithstanding all this, several of the more progressive towns were able to get their schools under
                    way from the very beginning. In such towns were invariably found city officials greatly interested
                    in the public school work. The leaders were able to unify and lead the people, and results followed.
            In 1856 the public schools of 
                        Indianapolis
                     had a May festival at the State fair grounds. Parents and others were invited. Between
                    1,500 and 1,600 children from the public schools were present. Governor Wright and Mayor West made
                    addresses. There were children from twenty schools. The mayor, in his address, alluded to the first
                    establishment of free schools in the city. This had been five years before, and there had been in
                    them only 100 scholars. The city was increasing its school house accommodations as rapidly as
                    possible, but its means hardly enabled it to keep pace with the demand. In January of the same year
                    a new house had been erected which would accommodate over 300 children, with room for six teachers.
                    This was already filled and another house of the same size was begun, to be finished for September.
                    They had at that time 25 teachers employed, and the new house would require several more. In their
                    schools were five grades, primary, secondary, intermediate, grammar and high school.
            The first report of the school trustees of the city of 
                        Lafayette
                    , July, 1856, has this:
            "The first effort made towards the establishment of a common school in our city was the
                    building of school house No. 1 in the northeast part of town, under the old district system. The
                    citizens of district Xo. 1 voluntarily levied a tax of 50 cents on the $100 to accomplish
                    that object. In 1852 a general law was passed, giving the control of all school matters to townships
                    and incorporated cities. Under that act, the trustees appointed by the city council took possession
                    of this property, completed and furnished the building and rented it for school purposes. This
                    property with improvements cost about $5,000.
            In October, 1852, the trustees levied a tax of 50 cents on the $100 upon the real and
                    personal property of the city, for the purchase of lots and the building of school houses, and
                    subsequently allowed the citizens of  districts No. 7 and 9 to
                    apply in payment of this assessment the tax they had paid in the district levy of 1851. The revenue
                    derived from this assessment with our proportion of the State Common School funds, was appropriated,
                    to the purchase of the lot on which school house No. 2 is situated, and in the building of the
                    commodious school houses Nos. 2 and 3, the latter having been erected on ground leased from Solomon
                    Romig. The lot, with the building and furnishing of both houses, has cost not less than
                    $14,000. In June, 1854, the schools were first opened, free to all entitled to their
                    benefits, and were continued in operation until July, 1855. Trustees value all property now (1856)
                    under their charge for educational purposes, at $20,000. The three school houses can
                    accommodate 800. This is their full capacity. The trustees hope that the public spirit and parental
                    affection of our citizens will ere long demand the establishment of a high school endowed with every
                    faculty for an advanced or collegiate education, so that children of our city may be kept under the
                    influence of good examples and just restraints of home until prepared to take their part in the
                    active duties of life. What should be, can be done, and when accomplished no one would desire to
                    return to the old paths."
            Here we see a very sensible method which was used to good effect in the formation of a public school
                    system.
            
               
                        Richmond
                     had met with equally good success. The first year of the city school closed June 27,
                    1852. Their school was commenced amidst embarrassments from want of experience as to what was
                    actually needed. Although a fine house was opened for the first time, it was found entirely too
                    small to accommodate all the scholars. The board determined to engage none but professional
                    teachers, and the result abundantly showed the wisdom of the resolution. Their school was classified
                    and graded. The school excited much interest, both in town and country. Many visitors came from far
                    and near. The high school was composed of young men and women, many of whom had attended academies
                    and colleges. The normal class was composed of some sixty pupils, many of whom had taught during the
                    summer. The success attained by the 
                        Richmond
                     system could be largely attributed to Supt. J. Hurty, who came there as a professional
                    supervisor from 
                        Ohio
                    .
            While not so successful from the beginning, no city used better judgment than 
                        Evansville
                    . It, at the beginning, laid the basis of the splendid system which it has maintained
                    for many years. From the third annual report (July, 1856) is the following:
            
            "Three years ago there were 1,200 children in the city and 300 enrolled. Now there are
                    1,800, with an enrollment of 900. For the first two years there were no school rooms, furniture nor
                    apparatus. The city of 
                        Evansville
                     did not own a school house nor a school room. The basements of churches, the upper
                    rooms of engine houses, and also private dwellings constituted the only building appliances for
                    school purposes. From such a beginning, if beginning it can be called, 
                        Evansville
                     took a new start and went vigorously to work, until she has educational facilities
                    which will not be disparaged by a comparison with those of any other place in the state. The past
                    year it has built one of the best school houses in the State. It will accommodate from 800 to 900
                    pupils and has six large rooms with recitation rooms attached to each. Cost $10,000. The
                    ground cost $4,000. John S. Hopkins, mayor of the city, was the great aid in its
                    erection.
            The schools are classified and divided into four grades–high school, grammar, intermediate
                    and primary. There are 13 teachers, 3 males, 10 females. The high school is under the charge of B.
                    P. Snow, a graduate of Bowdoin college. There were 51 admitted to the high school during the past
                    year.
            "
                        Evansville
                     is justly proud of its schools, and they are cherished with a feeling which might well
                    be imitated in many other places in Indiana. Though burdened with very heavy taxes, it cheerfully
                    pays the amount necessary to maintain its schools free and when men are proposed for municipal
                    officers, they are required to pledge themselves to the hearty support of these, its dearest
                    interests. The watchword of the trustees is, 'Which shall 
                        Evansville
                     have, Schools or Poorhouses and Prisons.' "
            An equally successful town and one which continued to hold its own was 
                        Shelbyville
                    . In 1857 
                        Shelbyville
                     had a good graded free school, a fine building, well furnished; a neat yard, well
                    fenced; and a good corps of teachers. The people of 
                        Shelbyville
                     were proud of their school and deservedly so.
            The same year (1857) graded schools were established for the first time at 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Geo. A. Irvin, an experienced teacher, was appointed superintendent. A fine union
                    school house had been constructed, with accommodations for three or four hundred pupils. The school
                    gave promise of success.
            At Connorsville, as at 
                        Richmond
                    , a neat, thriving town of 2,000 inhabitants, was another of 
                        Ohio
                    's sons laboring under very unfavorable circumstances. His school was well
                    patronized, notwithstanding the wretched condition of the school room, a damp, dark basement.
                    However, the true spirit had been awakened here. The Board of Directors, Messrs. Burk and Hall, had
                    almost completed a fine school  building about 70x70, three
                    stories high, which was completed during the year, and a true free school opened.
            Tracing the growth and development of the early schools, one finds the educational centers widely
                    distributed. The places where success came were the wide-awake localities that were nourished by a
                    continuous stream of new emigrant blood. 
                  Indianapolis, Evansville
               , 
                        Fort Wayne
                     and 
                        Richmond
                     are typical examples. On the other hand is found a class of towns which, seemingly
                    filled with the "old stock", persistently held to their ancient ideals. The public
                    school, with them, was a problem which had to be left for a future generation to solve. A third
                    class, the medium between the two extremes, was composed of those who carried the work along with
                    only partial success. They were not yet able to cope with the situation, either in a financial way
                    or in administrative power. To a majority of localities the State had given powers to which the time
                    for utilization had not yet arrived. In those which were successful, the following table will show
                    the steady growth, as to enumeration, made from the year 1853 to 1858, inclusive: 
                  
                     Name.
                     1853
                     1854
                     1855
                     1856
                     1857
                     1858
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                            
                     3,053
                     ----
                     3,901
                     4,504
                     4,338
                     4,739
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Evansville
                                
                            
                     1,658
                     2,313
                     2,559
                     2,921
                     3,288
                     3,560
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    New Albany
                                
                            
                     3,102
                     3,450
                     3,706
                     3,887
                     3,914
                     3,450
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Madison
                                
                            
                     3,240
                     3,738
                     2,970
                     2,954
                     2,904
                     2,581
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Fort Wayne
                                
                            
                     1,233
                     1,403
                     1,732
                     2,060
                     2,203
                     3,398
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Lafayette
                                
                            
                     ----
                     1,716
                     2,125
                     2,125
                     1,787
                     1,967
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Richmond
                                
                            
                     1,086
                     1,187
                     1,614
                     1,682
                     1,659
                     1,757
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Terre Haute
                                
                            
                     ----
                     1,766
                     ----
                     1,331
                     1,744
                     1,746
                  
                  
                     Laporte
                     ----
                     935
                     937
                     1,279
                     1,392
                     1,353
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Vincennes
                                
                            
                     851
                     870
                     867
                     877
                     927
                     1,085
                  
               
            
            There is no evidence to prove otherwise than that the steady progress being made by our city systems
                    at that time would have resulted in a more perfected system at a much earlier date, had not the
                    awful calamity which simply tore the city schools from their base, come to pass, namely, the Supreme
                    Court decision of 1857, in "Jenners vs the City of 
                        Lafayette
                    ."
            
            THE DECISION
                    OF 1857
            Progress of the city schools in Indiana met its "Waterloo" in the year 1857. For
                    the next few years following, one might truthfully say that (as far as these schools were concerned)
                    they were in their "Dark Ages."
            This important decision of the Supreme Court, which for several years brought to a standstill all
                    progress in the city public school work, was entitled "Jenners vs City of 
                        Lafayette
                    ." This case, quoting from the Indiana School Journal,
                    "involved the right of cities and other school corporations to tax themselves to support
                    public schools, and was decided in the plaintiff's favor." By this decision all
                    the annual schools (as the public schools were then called) in the State of Indiana, were crushed at
                    once, with the single exception of those in the city of 
                        Evansville
                    . That city, having retained its former charter, escaped the general wreck. Of the
                    correctness of the decision there is nothing to say. One cannot presume to question the wisdom and
                    uprightness of our Supreme Court, but one thing is certain, the decision, or the section of the
                    constitution on which the decision was based, was most outrageous. If it was the intention of the
                    framers of the constitution to prevent the establishment and the maintenance of free schools, then
                    the constitution was an outrage upon the people–an outrage which could hardly find a
                    precedent or parallel in any State in the Union. The decision was based upon Section 22 of Article
                    IV of the Indiana constitution, which reads as follows:
            "The General Assembly shall not pass local or special laws *
                        * * providing for supporting common schools."
            The whole facts in the case may be stated in a few words. The constitution of Indiana, or the
                    interpretation of it by her highest judicial tribunal, forbade the people of any city or corporate
                    place in the State, to tax themselves to support free schools, till the whole State should consent
                    to tax itself for the same purpose.
            One- can readily see the effect of such a decision where the social and economic differences between
                    the rural and urban communities must play such an important part. The decision paralyzed the city
                    schools from one end of the State  to the other. Many cities and
                    towns tried to continue their well established systems by private donations after the State fund was
                    used up. Others gave up in despair and disbanded their schools altogether.
            In 
                        New Albany
                    , where schools were firmly established, and where they had been in successful progress
                    for the past three years, the corps of teachers, 27 in number, was disbanded and the free schools
                    closed. In 
                        Richmond
                    , committees were appointed to solicit payment of the tax which had been assessed, and
                    it was decided that if two-thirds of the amount assessed could be realized the schools would be kept
                    open till April. For the succeeding year this city tried the following scheme: The school trustees
                    of the city announced that they had made arrangement with the superitnendent, W. D. Henkle, for the
                    establishment of schools upon individual tuition, in accordance with the graded system of the public
                    schools. The public school houses, or so many as would be sufficient to accommodate all who wished
                    to send, should be granted free of rent. This plan failed utterly, and private schools began to come
                    to the front once more.
            In 
                        Fort Wayne
                    , where for the two years preceding this decision the willing school workers had labored
                    to remove from their city the disgrace of being at least one of the dark corners of Indiana by
                    building two large, three-story school buildings, the effect was disastrous. Just at this crisis,
                    when the good influence of the school was beginning to be felt and appreciated, the fiat came from
                    the Supreme Court that the city might educate the children of the wealthy in private schools, but
                    the children of the poor were to be turned out upon the streets to grow up in ignorance and crime.
            
               
                        Shelbyville
                     made an effort to raise, by voluntary payment of taxes and by subscription, sufficient
                    means to continue in operation the fine graded schools in that place. It was not successful. They
                    tried to preserve a remnant of the public system by dismissing all but four teachers, and admitting
                    only such students as were willing to pay.
            As soon as the schools closed, the prominent educators who had cast their lot with
                    Indiana's educational institutions began to leave. Among the most prominent were G. B.
                    Stone and W. T. Webster, superintendent and principal, respectively,  of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     high school. The former went to 
                        Minneapolis
                     as superintendent, the latter to 
                        Lewiston
                    , 
                        Maine
                    . 
                        Indianapolis
                     suffered severely. More than two-thirds of the school children were out of school in
                    1858. A great number of poor private schools sprang up after the ruin of the public schools. Here,
                    too, the plan of voluntary contribution was tried, but without success. A nucleus of a public system
                    was maintained in the city by having a few teachers carry on school in the ward buildings. It was a
                    meagre attempt, but it kept the spark of public school spirit alive.
            While the effects of the decision of the Supreme Court were sweeping over the State like a
                    pestilence, crushing the graded schools in all the incorporated towns and cities, and causing
                    anguish of heart to the inhabitants everywhere, the schools of 
                        Evansville
                     alone escaped the general destruction. This was in consequence of their holding on to
                    their old city charter.
            At the very time the decision was published that closed the schools in 
                  New Albany, Lafayette,
                            Indianapolis
                and other places, the citizens
                    of 
                        Evansville
                     were considering the propriety of giving up their old charter and incorporating under
                    the general law for incorporating cities. The question was submitted to a vote of the people, and
                    was made a test whether they would adopt the new charter, and thereby destroy their schools, or hold
                    on to their old charter and save them. The question was hotly contested by the friends and enemies
                    of the schools, and the result was that the new charter party was defeated by a vote of more than
                    two to one.
            As an evidence of public sentiment upon the question of taxation to support the schools in the city
                    of 
                        Evansville
                    , it is worth noting that the individuals who had announced their names as candidates to
                    fill the various city offices were very careful to add that they were in favor of sustaining the
                    public schools. That was a better index of the public feeling in regard to the value of these
                    schools than anything else they could have offered. In 1858 there were twenty-four teachers employed
                    in these schools. The schools themselves were well graded and compared favorably with any system of
                    graded schools in the West.
            With the exception of the last named place, no town or  city of
                    the State escaped. Schools everywhere were either closed or maintained during a short session only,
                    with the tax for which the state law provided. In the course of the next two years, by 1860, several
                    cities began again to start their schools. The unjust decision, resembling in infamy the famous Dred
                    Scott decision of national fame, which was handed down almost at the same time, was by this time
                    beginning to be ignored.
            In 1860 the city free schools of 
                        Indianapolis
                     opened, to continue six months. They had not been in operation since the law of 1855
                    relating to incorporated towns was pronounced unconstitutional, but the city jail had been at all
                    times full of boys who had violated the laws of the State, while others went to swell the number in
                    the State penitentiary. The Rev. James Green was the new superintendnt, and Messrs. Culley, Beaty
                    and Love, trustees. These men were heavy taxpayers, but they favored free schools, and took a deep
                    and active interest in education. Perhaps no city had a more loyal set of trustees. But one only of
                    all its flourishing schools was sustained during the crisis in financial matters. In spite of all
                    adverse influence, this school was conducted successfully by G. W. Bronson, who kept up the various
                    grades., hired teachers and paid them, pocketed the losses from bad school bills, and held himself
                    accountable for a heavy rent which should have been given him as a present by the city. This school
                    was kept in excellent condition for entering upon the free term which was taught the latter part of
                    each school year.
            At 
                        Columbus
                     a new building was completed in 1860, at a cost of nearly $10,000. It was
                    built entirely by taxation, and, wonderful to tell, this tax, though quite heavy, was most
                    cheerfully paid.
            
               
                        Princeton
                    , too, in 1860, came to again. D. Eckley Hunter resigned his position as principal of
                    the academy at Bain-bridge, 
                        Putnam county
                    , and took up the principalship of the academic department in its graded schools. The
                    school opened for ten months, with six teachers in charge. William Kuntz, Andrew Lewis, and Rev. J.
                    McMaster were the trustees. They worked faithfully, without compensation. The extra money was raised
                    by donation.
            
            In the same year 
                        New Castle
                     erected a large building. The school there was again put on a firm basis by two very
                    willing instructors, T. Sharp and James R. Smith.
            At 
                        Lafayette
                    , the former superintendent, A. J. Vawter, was again persuaded to take the place. With
                    the co-operation of the trustees and earnest citizens, who felt the loss of a public system, Mr.
                    Vawter again began the struggle which he had gone through once before, namely, the organization of a
                    graded system of schools. In 1862 there were 2,203 pupils in the city, with an enrollment of 1,089.
                    There were seventeen teachers, the average salary of the male teachers being $45.00 per
                    month and that of the female teachers $22.67 per month. The quarterly expense of each
                    pupil was $1.72, which was paid by tuition, tax, and contribution. As stated by
                    Superintendent Vawter, this amount was less than half the cost per pupil in the private schools.
                    This was a fair representation of public schools generally, and was a strong point against public
                    school killers.
            
               
                        Vincennes
                    , by 1862, had erected one of the finest school buildings in the State. Teachers began
                    the organization of a graded system, although handicapped by difficulties which had arisen on
                    account of previous short terms.
            
               
                        Muncie
                    , by 1862, had a well-organized graded system. Under Mr.- Richards, the schools were
                    fast becoming among the best in the State.
            The most peculiar condition existed in the city of Logans-port. Here the people taxed themselves and
                    were, in turn, given complete control over their schools. With an excellent board of trustees and a
                    large revenue existed most indifferent schools. This resulted from the decision of the local
                    trustees, that cities, like townships, were made up of districts, and that the people should have
                    the power to select their schools and to elect their teachers. Here was a case where plenty of money
                    was wasted because of a lack of organization.
            
               
                        Greenfield
                    , like 
                        Logansport
                    , seemed indifferent. While schools were maintained, they did not prosper. As late as
                    1864 this town had not a public school building. It relied on public halls and rented buildings.
                    Teachers were hired and soon dismissed. Very few remained longer than one year. Such a condition
                    prevented development. 
                        Greencastle
                    , at  the same time, was in the same condition. Not
                    a single building did it own, and, although a system of schools was maintained despite the Supreme
                    Court decision, they were kept in rented property.
            By 1864 
                        Terre Haute
                     began to assume her former position in school affairs. This year the schools were
                    highly prosperous. The board of trustees were liberal and progressive men. The salaries of the
                    teachers were raised during the year, from 20 to 30 per cent. A fine ward building was completed
                    during this year, and plans laid for a $50,000 high school building. The schools were
                    under the leadership of Superintendent Olcott, one of the prominent educators of the State at that
                    time. During the school year of 1864-1865 there were 2,420 pupils enrolled in the schools, with
                    twenty-three teachers, who received as salary $8,727.50. The curriculum was full, and
                    included many subjects which were later dispensed with, such as Greek, philosophy and normal
                    instruction.
            By 1865 the schools of 
                        New Albany
                     had become established on a firm basis again. The teachers were well selected. The only
                    deviation from the former system was the loss of a superintendent. The board tried an experiment in
                    running the schools without a supervisory head, in order to keep down expenses. The principals were
                    given the power of supervision over their buildings, and the official duties of an ordinary
                    superintendent were done by the president of the school board, who sacrificed his time for
                    $300 per year. This plan failed afterwards, but it served its purpose. It was a means to
                    provide ten months' school at a time when it could have been accomplished in no other
                    way. In 
                        New Albany
                     at that time there were twenty-seven teachers and five school buildings.
            
               
                        Madison
                    , at the same time, woke up to her situation, and for the first time since 1857 taxed
                    herself for a full school year, regardless of the Supreme Court decision.
            In conclusion, we may state that this era was unfavorable to educational development. One of the
                    pioneer educational centers, 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , suffered equally with the rest. Seemingly impregnable against such a force, the taxes
                    here were not paid, just as in cities far less devoted to their schools.  Not until 1865 did this town begin to recover. In that year, while
                    other towns were redeeming themselves in educational matters, 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     began to take its position among those affording the best educational facilities for
                    its youth. A few enterprising citizens assumed the responsibility of engaging teachers by the year
                    and paying them first-class salaries. An entirely new set of hot air furnaces was put into their
                    large and well-fitted school house. Over $2,000 was spent during that year alone to fit
                    up the building and furnish it with necessary appliances. The school was opened under the
                    supervision of J. Hurty, assisted by a corps of able teachers. The school was thoroughly classified
                    and put in fine working order. A school yard of four acres was provided, and a janitor employed who
                    did much in providing physical comfort for the children. The citizens became deeply interested in
                    the reform in school matters in their city, and offered every assistance to the superintendent and
                    teachers. Although this place had for some time been behind others in the character of its schools,
                    it soon grew to stand among the best. Female teachers were paid from $30 to
                    $50 per month, male teachers from $60 to $120 per month. As in
                    other places, the citizens had seen the situation with and without schools. Law or no law, education
                    was essential to progress. To obey the law meant ruin; to provide schools meant growth. Future
                    success depended upon having intelligent citizens.
            THE SUPERINTENDENT
            
            Along with the struggle of the schools themselves came embarrassments as to their management. Several
                    problems presented themselves at the beginning. First, what should be the duties of a
                    superintendent? Secondly, was his office essential, or could it be dispensed with altogether and the
                    system run just as efficiently without it? Third, what relation should exist between him and the
                    teachers on the one hand, and the board together with the people on the other?
            The public schools followed in many ways the customs of the private institutions. One of these
                    customs was in the duty of the superintendent. At first this office in the free schools was filled
                    by a man who taught, by an expert teacher,  we might say. Later
                    a great many official duties devolved upon him, and gradually the superintendent became more of a
                    secretary to the school board. At the same time, in the best systems, the superintendent became an
                    expert supervisor, his tendency being to lean toward the teachers under him.
            The historical outgrowth of the public superintendent from that of the principal of private
                    institutions as well as his duties, may be considered a factor as to why the superintendent at the
                    beginning was a teacher. The fact that in the early years many of the schools were partly sustained
                    by public money and partly by private tuition, makes the question of supervision more complex still.
            A study of the school development at 
                        Rockport
                     will show us the close relationship which existed between the public and private
                    institutions at that time. 
                        Rockport
                     in 1856 sustained good schools. Mr. O. H. Smith, as superintendent, taught the high
                    school, and Mr. Partridge the other. The elementary grades were taught by Mrs. Partridge and Mrs.
                    Moseby. This shows a close likeness to the public schools elsewhere.
            At 
                        Salem
                    , in 1857, Mr. H. D. Wilson had a fine school, and built up for himself an excellent and
                    well-deserved reputation. He was aided by Mrs. Wilson, Miss Morrow and Miss Hopkins. The latter
                    taught music. At that time the people opposed the graded system.
            Connorsville, in 1857, had at the head of its schools a Mr. Jenkins from 
                        Ohio
                    . It devolved upon him to develop the systems of schools. Although laboring under
                    unfavorable circumstances, such as teaching in basements, rented rooms, etc., this man was able to
                    put the schools on their feet.
            George B. Stone, the man who first organized the 
                        Indianapolis
                     schools, devoted his whole time, with the exception of one and one-half hours daily,
                    which time was devoted to hearing classes in the high school, to visiting the different grades,
                    examining the classes, giving directions to the teachers and instructions to the pupils and
                    attending to all the., exterior and interior arrangements of the schools.
            At 
                        Shelbyville
                    , in 1857, Supt. W. A. Boles supplied all the needed maps, blackboard, apparatus, etc.,
                    of his own making. This was a fine thing for the school but hard on  his time and purse. But it showed the prevailing educational interest.
            
               
                        South Bend
                     went so far in the educational phase of supervision, that in 1875 it had two
                    superintendents. One was to supervise the elementary grades, the other the high school. Mr. D. A.
                    Ewing was at that time superintendent of the elementary grades, Mr. Benjamin Wilcox of the high
                    school work. This plan worked splendidly at 
                        South Bend
                    , but its success was largely attributed to the great ability of Mr. Ewing.
            At 
                        Evansville
                    , in 1865, Professor Rice was elected superintendent of the schools. Mr. Rice was a
                    teacher of experience and known ability, which guaranteed to the people that he would succeed in his
                    new and larger field of work. He was chosen because of his superior educational or teaching ability.
            In 1870 Professor Edward Clark, superintendent of the 
                        Aurora
                     schools, started an "Educational Column" in the People's Advocate published at that place. Professor Clark came to Indiana from 
                        Ohio
                    , where he had been engaged for several years previous as a teacher in the 
                        Lebanon
                     normal school.
            
               
                        New Castle
                    , in 1875, under the supervision of George W. Hufford, maintained very good schools. Mr.
                    Hufford was one of Indiana's most scholarly teachers, as well as one of the most sensible
                    superintendents. His chief delight was to put out strong students. To this end he maintained a rigid
                    four-year course of study.
            The schools at 
                        Logansport
                    , in 1867, were placed under the supervision of Sheridan Cox. In the matter of
                    education, he had a great task before him, which he accomplished with success. Mr. Cox spent half
                    his time superintending, and the remainder in teaching.
            In the same year (1867) the schools of 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     came under J. C. Ridpath, a graduate of Asbury (now De Pauw) University. He was a man
                    who put great interest into his work. His superior scolarship dominated the whole system.
            In 1869 
                        Columbus
                     maintained a well-graded system of schools under a man who was thoroughly devoted to
                    his work.  This man, David Graham, was another example of the
                    scholarship type of superintendent.
            At 
                        Union City
                    , in 1869, E. Tucker came to the head of the school system, from a position in Liber
                    college. He was one of the few men at that time who held State certificates. His ability, from the
                    standpoint of scholarship, dominated his policies.
            All this is offered as evidence that for the first twenty years of city school life, the worth of a
                    superintendent was measured largely by his ability as an instructor, as a scholar.
            An interesting plan for solving the problem of a superintendent was the double principal system. This
                    proved successful for a while, but later gave way to the single supervisor, the principals putting
                    in their time teaching. Several cities tried this scheme at first.
            The schools at 
                        New Castle
                    , in 1860, were successfully conducted by Mr. T. Sharp and Mr. James R. Smith, as joint
                    principals. Similarly, at 
                        Muncie
                    , as late as 1864, the schools were conducted jointly by E. J. Rice and James S. Ferris,
                    aided by a full and competent corps of teachers. At Rising Sun, in 1865, the schools were supervised
                    by two associate principals, Messrs. Matson and McFee. Likewise, at 
                        New Castle
                    , again in 1866, the schools were conducted by two independent principals.
            Another complexity which entered in was that of county examiners, acting in the capacity of
                    supervisory officials of city or town schools in their respective counties. Usually the salary
                    (which was paid by the day with only a limited number of days allotted them during each year) was
                    too small to support them, and consequently they engaged in some other work part of the time to meet
                    their needs. It was a saving proposition for the corporations themselves.
            At 
                        Vevay
                    , in 1870, the schools were conducted by R. F. Brewington, the county examiner. In the
                    same year the graded schools of 
                        Spencer
                     were conducted by the county examiner of Owen county. Robert Andrews, county examiner,
                    conducted the schools at Shoals. He was a very efficient school man, and built up a good graded
                    school. This plan was tried out in several places, but gradually weakened and finally gave way to
                    the independent supervisor.
            
            Lack of funds, coupled with the idea that the superintendent was a useless official, caused an
                    experiment in many cities which proved to the fullest degree that such an official could not be
                    dispensed with. Many towns and cities tried the plan of carrying on their schools without a
                    supervisory head.
            A very successful system of this kind was that found in 
                        Evansville
                     in 1858. H. Q. Wheeler, president of the board of trustees, acted as superintendent.
                    Mr. Wheeler had been connected with these schools ever since they had been organized, To him the
                    people of 
                        Evansville
                     were indebted more than to any other man for the efficiency of their system. He took a
                    great interest in its success, and made personal sacrifices to build up and sustain it. In addition
                    to rendering his service, Mr. Wheeler gave to the school certain laboratory apparatus worth
                    $350.00.
            Another type of this system was at 
                        New Albany
                    , in 1870. 
                        New Albany
                     had always been famous for its system of city schools. In this year it had for its
                    superintendent one of the school trustees, Dr. E. Newland. This official believed that one of the
                    school trustees ought always to act as the superintendent. Fortunately Dr. Newland was a splendid
                    official. Their system, under him, was very creditable as to scholarship, order, and educational
                    interest. But in 1872 the school officials were on the lookout for a new head. Dr. Newland could not
                    afford to devote his whole time to school business for $300.00 per year–the
                    salary allotted him. No other trustee was capable of filling the place had he chosen to do so. The
                    whole matter ended in the hiring of a superintendent.
            In 1869 the school board of 
                        Terre Haute
                     abolished the office of superintendent. The reason assigned was economy. In so doing,
                    the board authorized W. H. Wiley, principal of the high school, to give part of his time to
                    superintending the other schools in the city. One year later (1870) Mr. Wiley was elected
                    superintendent, and in 1871 he was re-elected for a period of two years, at a salary of
                    $2,000 per annum.
            This plan of having a member of the board act as superintendent was tried at 
                  Madison, Vincennes,
                            South Bend
                and other places in the State,
                    but was found to be unsuccessful. The whole difficulty lay in the fact that those trustees competent
                         to carry on the business end of school affairs could not
                    afford to do so on a meagre salary, and the purpose of the scheme was to save money.
            The early years of trial and experiment proved two things. First, that a superintendent was
                    essential, and, second, that such an office was best vested in a single person. By 1875 all the city
                    schools in the State, of any importance, had superintendents. When once settled that they were a
                    necessity, their true function was then questioned.
            As the school systems grew, the teaching function of the superintendent gradually disappeared. He
                    then became either a professional supervisor, allowing the interested board to assume much of the
                    business end of the system, or, with the decrease of interest on the part of the boards, he became
                    the business manager of the system. Later the man was looked for who, it was thought, could do both
                    successfully.
            In 1867 the Superintendent of the 
                        Shelbyville
                     schools, D. Eckley Hunter, devoted his whole time to superintending. He had no regular
                    classes. This was considered quite a step forward, at that time, owing to the small size of the
                    city. Here is found a transition from the teaching superintendent of 1866 to the supervising
                    superintendent of 1867. Under such conditions the trustees worked in complete harmony with the
                    system.
            Such division of labor did well in other cities. At 
                        Logansport
                    , for example, in 1869, they were able for the first time to run the schools ten months.
                    They advanced more that year than any previous year.
            
               
                        Lafayette
                     succeeded well in her school system, also, for the same reason. Their superintendent,
                    J. W. Molier, in his report, spoke in strong terms of the efficiency and liberality of the board of
                    trustees.
            
               
                        Tell City
                    , in 
                        Perry county
                    , some years earlier (1864), had organized a good system of graded schools. The
                    superintendent, Jacob Bollinger, attributed much of the success to the untiring efforts of the
                    trustees.
            Another phase of the direct interest of school trustees in the matter of supervision, is shown as
                    follows:
            "In September, 1869, the trustees of the 
                        Bloomington
                     schools sent their teachers to spend a week in the 
                        Indianapolis
                     schools. They believed that teachers learned how to teach by seeing others
                    teach."
            
            In 1870 Superintendent A. C. Shortridge, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , with eight or ten of his teachers, visited the 
                        St. Louis
                     schools. Several of the others visited the 
                        Cincinnati
                     schools at the same time.
            To show the importance of the trustees as a factor in the early school supervision, the following is
                    quoted from the Rules and Regulations for the Public Schools of 
                            Indianapolis
                         for 1866.
            "SUPERINTENDENT
                    AND
                    HIS
                    DUTIES
            
            The Superintendent of Public Schools shall act under the advice and direction of the Board of
                    Education and shall have the superintendence of all public schools, school houses, books, and
                    apparatus. He shall devote himself exclusively to the duties of his office. He shall keep reguar
                    office hours other than school hours, at a place to be provided for that purpose, which shall be the
                    depository of the books and papers belonging to the board of education."
            From 1871 up to the end of this period (1880), cities, as a rule, began to rely upon the
                    superintendent for the complete guidance of their schools. This was due to two things, viz: (1) the
                    increasing complexity of the system, (2) the gradual loss of interest on the part of boards. In 1873
                    the schools of 
                        Elkhart
                     were largely dominated by Superintendent J. K. Walts. The citizens measured their
                    schools largely through the work of the superintendent.
            
               
                        Huntington
                    , in 1874, was completely carried away with the work of Superintendent James Baldwin. In
                    addition to the ordinary work, he arranged a course of lectures for the benefit of the high school.
            
               
                        Fort Wayne
                    's policies, in 1874, were well carried out by Superintendent James H. Smart.
                    He had the schools well systematized. 
                        Evansville
                     (1874) allowed her superintendent, Mr. A. M. Gow, great liberties in the management of
                    school affairs. At 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Superintendent A. C. Shortridge was considered, by board and patrons, the efficient
                    leader of his system. The 
                        Terre Haute
                     board (1871), in speaking of Superintendent Wiley, said:
            "The schools were never in a more prosperous condition than they are today. Too much praise
                    can not be bestowed upon Professor W. H. Wiley, our superintendent, for the able and satisfactory
                    manner in which he has  managed the schools, and the able and
                    energetic corps of teachers who have aided in all his efforts to advance the interest and prosperity
                    of our public schools."
            In conclusion, we may sum up the development of supervision as follows:
            The supervisor at first was considered worth while only in so far as he was a teacher. Later his duty
                    was that of an expert supervisor. At the same time, some boards hired him for a business manager.
                    Finally, the ideal superintendent was regarded as the man who could perform both the managerial
                    duties and professional service.
            (To be concluded)
         
         
         
            The Pioneers of 
                         Jefferson county 
                    
            
            I REMINISCENCES
            
            By JAMES B. LEWIS
            
            MY grandfather, John Lewis, came to this country from 
                        Wales
                     about 1750 and lost his life when my father was about five years old, in the battle at
                    the fort opposite 
                  New London, Connecticut
               , at the close of the Revolutionary war. He left
                    two sons, John and Oliver. The latter, my father, moved to Trumbull county, 
                        Ohio
                    , in 1804. His family then consisted of my mother now residing on Walnut street, aged
                    ninety-four, one daughter and one son, Chauncey B. Lewis, father of Dr. James R. Lewis. In 
                        Ohio
                    , his family increased to three daughters and three sons. He resided in 
                        Ohio
                     during the war of 1812, and was a soldier under Gen. William H. Harrison. Was at the
                    battle of Niagara Falls, Black Rock and River Raisin. My father was sent with others as an escort
                    with an officer to supersede General Croghan at Lower Sandusky fort, and got so near that they heard
                    the gun (a six-pounder) that was so well handled by our men. As fast as the British soldiers filled
                    the ditch leading to the fort, the point of the six-pounder was run out and fired with such effect
                    that it drove them out, leaving the ditch nearly full with their dead.
            While my father was in the army, mother would weave cloth for the other soldiers' wives,
                    while they would tend her garden in turn. I remember, as young as I was, seeing the old, gray-headed
                    men come round to see that all was well, for every able-bodied man had gone to the front to prevent
                    the Indians coming into our neighborhood. When my father returned, it was about daylight. He had
                    lost a thumb in the last battle and it was very painful. That fall he lost his second crop of corn
                    by early frost, and the next fall, 1815, he lost his third. I remember the latter. The whole country
                    was a stench in our nostrils and we could taste it in our mouths. My father was a Methodist, and his
                    Circuit Rider advised him to go to Indiana Territory.
            
            On his recommendation he started in the fall of 1815, in company with Baldwin Clark and family. They
                    purchased a flatboat at Weaver, twelve miles below 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , on the 
                        Ohio
                    , and, when all was ready, we were marched down to the boat. My father and others united
                    in singing and prayer, committing themselves and their families to their kind heavenly
                    father's care while on the river, and journeying to their new home.
            On our way down the river we stopped at several places. At 
                        Cincinnati
                     we stopped over the Sabbath. There was no wharf there then. Under the high bank was a
                    steam saw-mill, and when running the steam would escape, it looked to me, twenty-five feet high, and
                    would whistle like one of the old fashioned hunter's horns. From 
                        Cincinnati
                     down we stopped at Fort Williams, now Carrolton. There George Short took passage with
                    his "kit" of tools. He was a wheelwright and all our old farmers will testify to
                    his good spinning wheels. He settled up on Walnut street, out of town, and ever after it was called "
                        Georgetown
                    ."
            There was no landing then made at 
                        Madison
                    . The original sycamore, cottonwood and willow trees were standing under and on the high
                    bank; these grew out into the river, especially the cottonwoods. Col. John Paul had cut the trees
                    from the front of his house, now belonging to the heirs of Mr. Abram Todd. Our first citizens
                    erected houses on the second, or high river bank, and when Walnut, Main, Mulberry and West streets
                    were graded it left the houses above the street and nearly worthless, for instance, Robert
                    Craig's and Alois Bachman's.
            Navigation on the river at this time was of the rudest kind. There were no steamboats for several
                    years. Broad-horns could float down, but to go up-stream the keelboat was used, a craft somewhat
                    similar to the present canal boat, but very rude; the guards were about a foot wide and had cleets
                    nailed to the floor, and two or three men on each side with long poles would push it against the
                    current with their shoulders. When the water was deep or rapid, the men looked as though they were
                    all lying down. Six miles were considered a good day's run.
            The original plat of 
                        Madison
                     was laid off from East to  West streets. These
                    streets were the eastern and western boundaries of the then "town" of 
                        Madison
                    . The streets were in their original state, and as that winter, 1815-16, was warm, they
                    were wet with plenty of mud and misery. There were three ponds in the old town, one on Walnut
                    street, running south under the market space nearly to the present jail, and to Jonathan
                    Fitch's corner. Another where A. J. Fisher's stables now stand on Second
                    street. The other opposite the 
                        Madison
                     hotel, on Mulberry and Second streets. On the north end of this pond, on the alley
                    between Main Cross and Second streets, was the only barber shop in the place. The sign over the door
                    was hard for boys to read. It ran thus: "SAM-DUNNBARBER." At the intersection of
                    Main and Main Cross streets, and for some space around, there was a marsh, and the old corduroy is
                    still buried about four feet under the present streets.
            There was a large number of Indians about. They had a camp at the north end of Walnut street,
                    opposite Johnson & Clements' old starch factory. John Ritchie's store
                    was opposite Rolla Doolittle's residence. The Indians used to trade with him. The Indians
                    seldom used saddles or bridles on their ponies. If they got drunk–and they would always
                    do so if they could get the fire-water—one or two would remain sober to take care of the
                    others.
            Robert Craig opened a grocery on Second street shortly after, near where Mr. Dickson now has his
                    newspaper depot; Jacob G. Doyle was nearby, and Linas R. Leonard where the mayor's office
                    now stands.
            When John Paul laid off the addition below West street, where the angle is made, there was
                    considerable indignation about "that bend." It was originally intended for Main
                    Cross to run to the river, so when on the street you could see the point below town on the 
                        Kentucky
                     shore. There were written and published in the papers four chapters of
                    "Chronicles" in which Colonel Paul was called "John the Nabob"
                    and "John Paul, Jr.," "Jack Hoecake," etc., for altering the
                    original design.
            The old Methodist church was built this year on John McIntyre's land on the east of East
                    street on the back end of the lot, where St. John's church now stands. The seats  were of the rudest sort, split logs with a block under each
                    end. Dr. Oglesby, Dr. Bigelow and a Mr. Brown (James E. Bacon's father-in-law) were the
                    original preachers. Shortly after, Allen Wiley was put on this circuit.
            Rev. William Robinson was the Presbyterian minister. He lived in a frame house on the ground where
                    Isaac Wagoner now has a livery stable (my father first lived in a log house opposite). Mr. Robinson
                    was in the habit of drinking, and at times to excess. He was an enterprising man, however, and
                    erected a carding machine on the lot on Walnut street, where my mother now lives. After him, Mr.
                    Searles was pastor, and, after his death, Rev. Joseph Trimble. Both are buried in the old cemetery
                    on Third street. In 1825 Rev. James H. Johnston, now of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , became pastor. After Rev. Mr. Robinson was sold out John M. Watson carded wool for the
                    farms and he used to advertise in the old Indiana Republican. The heading was:
                        
                        "The tariff need not distress us, If we have wool enough to dress us."
                    
            
            In 1817 John Paul gave the ground on Third street for a burying ground. The first person buried there
                    was a Miss Old. Up to that time the burying ground was up in 
                        Fulton
                    , above Greiner's brewery.
            In 1817 my father farmed all the land in Scott's garden and lived in the old log house
                    back of John Ross's tan-yard. A man by the name of William Cole had a tan-yard where Ross
                    now lives. There was a large spring at the foot of the hills on East street. That was when I was a
                    boy, and it used to make quite a creek across Walnut street. There was a public well in the front of
                    the courthouse. Old Fathers Thomas and Kirk used to draw water by the day and children were sent to
                    them and they would fill their buckets and send them home. There was another well at Stapp and
                    Branham's hotel, near Dr. Cornett's back store door on Mulberry street.
                    Another well was dug in 1834 or '35 near the alley by the postoffice. It did not last
                    long. There was another well in the rear of Mr. Albert Scheik's grocery. It was called
                    "Oldfield's Well." Another was under the present wall on Poplar Lane at
                    Judge J. Y. Allison's residence. This was  called
                    "Talbott Well," as Richard C. Talbott, in 1820, was clerk of the county and lived
                    in that house and kept his office in the corner room. There was another well near the middle of J.
                    F. D. Lanier's ground, where Alex. Lanier now lives. This was called
                    "Lanier's Well." They were all open to the public.
            Up to 1828 there was no such thing known as a cast stove. John Sheets brought a seven-plate stove
                    from the east to town for his stove, but there were no cook stoves until 1835 or '36. It
                    was stipulated when I got my wife that I was to furnish a "cooking stove" for our
                    kitchen.
            In 1825 there was no such thing as a wood-saw. We boys had to chop our wood with an axe. And another
                    great trouble was, such things as matches were unknown until about 1835, and then they were of the
                    rudest kind. First you had to have a vial with some kind of a preparation in it and a stick with
                    sulphur on the end and when poked into this vial it would ignite. At last, some man invented our
                    present match. At first they had to have a piece of black sand paper, and when rubbed on this paper
                    it would ignite. These were called Locofoco matches and they gave the name to the old Democratic
                    party in this wise: The Tammany party was divided on some questions in 
                        New York City
                    , and when one party found they were in the minority, blew out the lights; the other
                    party was not to be outgeneraled and immediately struck a light and proceeded with their meeting,
                    and Prentice of the 
                        Louisville
                     Journal ever after called it the "Locofoco" party. Before these
                    matches were invented, while living in the country, I was careful not to let the fire go out, and,
                    if I did, the next morning, wet or cold, I would have to post off to the nearest neighbor to
                    "borrow" a little fire.
            Father Logan was mistaken about Daniel Lyle's store being the oldest house. It was built
                    in 1838 or 1840. But the brick house across the alley was built in 1818. Andrew Collins'
                    store was in the front and he lived in the frame part. The house Mr. Schooley pulled down this
                    summer was built in 1823, and was a sample of all the houses then in town. The house on the corner
                    of Third and Poplar Lane with a porch on the east side was built by Josiah Meade in 1818; also the
                    house on the alley adjoining David Wilson's old residence  on Second street. The house where Mrs. J. G. Marshall now lives was
                    built by Felix Brandt in 1818; in the east room he had a watch-maker's shop. Mr. William
                    Robinson, father of Mrs. Crane, had a store in the front room of Mr. Verry's residence.
                    The oldest house now standing in the city is on the alley (east side) on the south side of High
                    street between Main and Walnut streets. Peter Hemphill resided there and was ferryman from this side
                    of the river and Abram King from the 
                        Kentucky
                     side. The other house is the little red front on the river bank just above William
                    Phibbs'. The front frame in the house where John Marsh now lives is sixty years old.
            The old market house was west of the big pond between Mr. Sering's residence and the
                    courthouse. It was built by setting four posts with forks in the upper ends and poles laid in them
                    and then covered with clapboards and logs to hold them on. The house used as a courthouse stood
                    where V. Firth's house now stands. The court was held in the upper room. The stairs were
                    on the outside and west end. The jail, "Old Buckeye," was hard to beat. It was a
                    house with a house built on the outside so close that nothing could be moved, as the outside held
                    everything in its place. David Kent was jailer.
            It was hard to make change in these times, as money was scarce. The old Spanish dollar was
                    universally used, together with half dollars and twenty-five-cent pieces, bits (12½
                    cents), and fips (6½ cents); the ten-cent pieces passed for 12½ cents, or
                    eight for a dollar. In 1831 or 1832, when Jesse Whitehead opened store, he used to bring out a keg
                    full of ten and five-cent pieces and make change for anyone wanting it, and gave eight dimes and
                    sixteen five-cents for a dollar. So they were soon called "Jesses" and
                    "Half-Jesses."
            Before this, they used to cut the money and so get change. For instance, if I owed a man
                    6½ cents, I would cut a 25-cent piece into four pieces, and a half dollar to eight, or a
                    half for a quarter dollar and cut the other half into four parts, so on with the dollar, etc. This
                    cut money was called "Sharp-shins."
            The first Sabbath school was in the old Presbyterian church on West street in front of what is now
                    called Presbyterian  avenue. I preferred this school to the
                    private schools because they gave us books to read, besides the red and blue tickets. Mrs. McIntyre
                    had a private school in 1816.
            In 1817 a Catholic priest came to town, and he said mass,' preached, administered the
                    sacraments and baptized several children, some of them large girls and boys. But to me the most
                    singular part of the service was that he married four or five old couples who had children grown.
                    This service was held in the house where Joel Dickey now resides. John Paul built this house and
                    offered the whole square to the county if they would make it the courthouse. Beaumont Park for many
                    years taught the higher branches of education there. Many of our old citizens could neither read nor
                    write. Deal charitably with them, and remember that many had to go two and three miles to school and
                    nearly all the way through the woods, with blazes on the trees to prevent them from wandering out of
                    the way and getting lost. And such school houses! One log left out to light the house and
                    this in cold winter, for all had to work on the farm during the summer. Another thing will amuse our
                    young people: Whenever there was a night meeting, it was held at "early candle
                    light." At the appointed time, the heads of each family would take one or two candles in
                    hand; some with a lantern, and as they arrived would light the house, and if but few came, they
                    would of course have poor lights.
            Ephriam Kennedy (Old John Brown) and O. B. Lewis went down to the mouth of Crooked creek to fish
                    about this time. Soon they heard a noise like the firing of a gun below the point on the 
                        Kentucky
                     shore. About the same time a strange looking craft rounded the point; one mentioned
                    that it was Indians. They immediately dropped all and made for the town. They ran until out of
                    breath, and then hid under the logs for a time, but becoming more alarmed, ran through the woods,
                    greatly excited, into town. They ran until out of breath and reported the Indians coming, and the
                    citizens went to the river to see the first steamboat that came and landed at 
                        Madison
                    .
            Scape pipes in those days were made very small and great force was necessary to drive the steam
                    through them. For that reason, a noise was made of a very peculiar kind. It  would shriek and then bang away like the report of a gun or horn.
            In 1824, Abram Wilson's smith shop, on the ground where Wesley Chapel now stands, was
                    burned down. His brother mechanics turned out to rebuild his shop. They went up the river bank where
                    the Mammoth Cave pork house now stands and were cutting down and hewing the cottonwood trees into
                    logs for the purpose of rebuilding said shop. This was trespassing on John McIntyre's
                    land (it was under the high bank). McIntyre went around asking them their names. One of them was
                    Jacob Harbaugh, but passed under the name of Jake Hoboy. McIntyre went around asking the men
                    "What's Jake Hoboy's first name?"
            The first Monday of August in each year was election day for State officers. On the present
                    courthouse corner, and near the public well would be two or three barrels on end, heads out, full of
                    whiskey, with tin cups hung on them. Each party would chalk its name on the outside of the barrel.
                    By evening they would be nearly empty and the men full.
            At one of these elections, John Paul, Jr., and Brook Bennett were candidates. Paul's
                    friends were voting and shouting "Hurrah for Paul." Young John Bennett became
                    indignant and jumped on a stump and hurrahed for daddy.
            General Tipton, of 
                        Logansport
                    , about 1826 made a treaty with the Indians, and induced them to give lands enough to
                    make a road one hundred feet wide, from 
                        Michigan City
                     to some point on the Ohio river. Congress left it to the Indiana
                    legislature to locate said road. All the river towns in the State wanted it, and for two years our
                    legislature was in continual excitement. A few years before this, the 
                        Wabash
                     Canal was asking for an appropriation, and they wanted one vote in the Senate and two
                    in the House to pass it through. 
                        Jefferson county
                     could do just what it wanted and our representatives were promised that if they would
                    do so when 
                        Jefferson county
                     would come to the legislature and say "
                        Wabash
                     Canal" every man would go for them. They did so and it was their political
                    death. But this road was to come before the legislature the next winter. 
                        Cincinnati
                     money was freely spent to take it to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , and had so far succeeded as to get it to Napoleon. Now James R. Wallace stepped  forth from 
                        Jefferson county
                    , and reminded the Wabash Valley men of their promises. In a moment
                    a member of the valley moved to strike out 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     and insert 
                        Madison
                    . On this he moved the previous question, and 
                        Madison
                     got the 
                        Michigan
                     road. This is what was called "Log Rolling" in our legislature.
            The country round 
                        Madison
                     was settled before 
                        Madison
                    . The name of 
                        Madison
                     was at first "Wakefield." This county and Scott were taken from Clark
                    county and were the same for a time. 
                        Jefferson county
                     was named for Jefferson, then President, and 
                        Madison
                     was named for President Madison in 1809 or '10 for he held that office at
                    this time. The above is from momory of what my father used to tell men who came into the county to
                    settle.
            The first newspaper published in 
                        Madison
                     was the Western Eagle, by Seth M. Leavenworth and William Hendricks.
                    Col. John Vawter told me in 
                        Morgantown
                     that it was printed in his kitchen while he lived in 
                        Madison
                    . After the Western Eagle, John Lodge started the Indiana
                        Republican. Under the caption was this sentiment: "Where Liberty dwelleth, there
                    is my country.–
                        Franklin
                    ." About 1831 the Banner at 
                        Salem
                     was merged into it and it was called Republican and Banner.
            Dawson Blackmore was not born in the town of 
                        Madison
                    , I think, for Blackmore moved from 
                        Madison
                     up into Eagle Hollow in 1810 or '11 and Dawson was not born until 1812 or
                    '13. He is of age, let him answer. Judge Blackmore lived there at that time and made and
                    sold hats. David G. Bright, father of Jessie Bright, made hats at the same time, in
                    Dutton's corner, Main Cross and Mulberry streets.
            Eagle Hollow got its name from this circumstance. No steam-boats were running, and the large travel
                    to the 
                        Jeffersonville
                     land office was by land, and every few miles a tavern. John Troxall put a neat sign
                    with a large spread eagle on it, and after that it was called Eagle Hollow. All the hollows above
                    that were Bee Camp hollows, for every tree that was hollow near the top was sure to have bees, and I
                    have seen a barrel of honey taken out of one tree, while I was living up there from 1818 to 1821.
            More about the Indian Camp up Walnut street on Crooked  creek.
                    The Indian squaw in camp did not look like the pictures we have seen of them in books, but quite the
                    reverse. They were as to appearance, larger than the men, but short and slovenly. The young squaw
                    has bright, black eyes, but otherwise is not prepossessing. They examined my coat and how it was
                    made very closely. I saw an old squaw hold up the chin and pinch her little papoose's
                    lips together. I, boylike asked her why she did so. She answered in substance, it would not take
                    cold if it breathed through its nose while sleeping. All the papooses were strapped to boards of
                    bark and set up against trees. About one hundred yards above the point of the hill nearest Walnut
                    street there was a dam of logs, filling the bed of the creek from bank to bank. Jack Hunt told me it
                    was a beaver's dam. And for ten years afterward, there was occasionally seen beavers
                    playing in the water.
            John Paul took advantage of this beaver dam and built a saw mill there. Parts of the mill were there
                    as late as 1830. He also built a grist mill on the north side of the creek, a short distance above
                    the old burying ground on Third street, and grinding was done as late as 1828 and 1830, until
                    Alexander Washer built a mill where the present Star Mills stand.
            George Logan was the first white man, as far as the written record goes, to put his foot upon 
                        Jefferson county
                     soil, though hundreds trod it before. Doubtless Daniel Boone, who followed the
                        Kentucky river to its mouth, and the 
                        Ohio
                     to the Falls was on our soil. Also Simon Kenton and many hunters, trappers and scouts,
                    and the soldiers, settlers, hunters, trappers and government agents who were constantly going up and
                    down the river.
            Mr. Logan climbed the hilltop at what is known as Logan's Point March 1, 1801. In 1815, he
                    purchased the land. In 1863, he discovered the beech trees he had marked in 1801. James Vawter built
                    a cabin on the site of the Round House at 
                        North Madison
                     in 1806-07. Elder Jesse Vawter removed his family to a residence he had prepared for
                    them at Fair-mount in 1806, which he named Mount Glad. Mr. Graham MacFarlane now owns the property.
                    George Richey settled on Clifty creek in 1806; James Underwood on Crooked creek the same year. The
                    settlers previous to 1808 had all located  on the hilltops. In
                    1808, William Hall squatted on the ground where the engine and pumphouse of our city water works are
                    now located. John H. Wagner landed at the foot of Jefferson street in 1808 and built a cabin on the
                    northeast corner of Mulberry and First streets. This was the first cabin built in the corporate
                    limits of 
                        Madison
                    . Mr. Wagner was also our first blacksmith and the father of our late mayor, Isaac
                    Wagner.
            In 1808, Col. John Paul bought the land on which 
                        Madison
                     stands from the government. He removed to 
                        Madison
                     with his family in 1809. Lewis Davis and Jonathan Lyons, partners and associates of
                    Col. Paul, came to 
                        Madison
                     in 1809, but remained only a few years. John Ryker, Christopher Harrison, William
                    Robbins, Rafe Griffin, Bazeleel Maxwell, Archibald, Dinwiddie, Joseph Lane, Thomas and David Hughes,
                    Alex. Chambers, Williamson Dunn, father of Gen. William McKee Dunn, Thomas Jameson, father of Elder
                    Love Jameson, Alexander McNutt, John Booth, Samuel Burnett, Robert Trotter, Joshua Wilkinson, John
                    Sering, William Ramsey, Dawson Blackmore, Gen. Alexander Meek, Dr. Robert Cravens, Dr. S. M. Goode,
                    William Hendricks, Arnold Custer and Thomas Roseberry were among the earliest settlers.
            The Jenny Lind Pork House was built and run by Messrs. George W. Phillips and son. It was so called
                    because the famous songstress, Jenny Lind, who had been engaged by Mr. Billy Wilson to sing in 
                        Madison
                    , found on her arrival that she had to sing there or forfeit the ticket money, and her
                    agent, Mr. P. T. Barnum, was beaten for once. It was a new frame building, very large and stood
                    where Jager's stone yard was on Mulberry street. The house was filled at five dollars a
                    ticket. Captain David White bid a large amount for the premium ticket at auction. The management had
                    guaranteed Barnum $5,000 and the receipts were $3,700. They were out
                    $1,300. From 1847 to 1857, pork packing was a large item of business in 
                        Madison
                    . The number of hogs slaughtered one year was 152,000. The flour mills were large and
                    flourishing during this period. On the site of the old pork house, was one run by Capt. David White,
                    who made large quantities of kiln dried corn meal which was shipped to 
                        Ireland
                     during the great Irish famine.
            
            Iron foundries were flourishing at this time. Mr. William Clough built and carried on an enterprising
                    business, making railroad cars. The manufacture of starch was now in its beginning and afterwards
                    became a large item of business. The 
                        Madison
                     Marine Railway and Shipyard was built about 1850 by a stock company of spirited
                    citizens. It is almost impossible to overestimate the benefit the shipyard has been to 
                        Madison
                    . The 
                        Madison
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad Company was one of the earliest built in the west and 
                        Madison
                     was for years the only outlet for this portion of the State, thus enabling 
                        Madison
                     to do a large forwarding commission and jobbing trade.
            In 1839 when Daniel Webster visited 
                        Madison
                    , the reception speech was made by Joseph G. Marshall, who was very similar to Webster
                    in the force and grandeur of his oratory. Webster replied as only the god-like Daniel could. George
                    Robinson (orator, editor and lawyer), after hearing them, went to his office and wrote out both
                    speeches from memory and submitted them and they were both pronounced exact, word for word. This is
                    the only off-hand speech of Webster published, as there were no short-hand reporters in those days.
            William Robinson, father of George, came to 
                        Madison
                     from 
                        Baltimore
                    . He persuaded his friend, Rev. Gamaliel Taylor, to move to 
                        Madison
                     as their families could make their long journey together. In 1819 they came from 
                        Baltimore
                     to Wheeling in wagons and from Wheeling to 
                        Madison
                     in a keel boat down the Ohio river. George Robinson, when 14 years
                    of age, rode horseback from Pittsburg to 
                        Madison
                    . When he was 18 years of age, his father sent him on horseback to 
                        Baltimore
                     to get the plans drawn for the Methodist church. He returned with plans from which
                    Wesley Chapel was built.
            
               
                        Madison
                     had the first railroad into the interior. This connected with the Ohio
                    river and it at that time, 1842-1852, was the great highway between the south and west to
                    the east and the route by rail and water connecting them gave 
                        Madison
                     a name and importance far and wide and made it by far the liveliest of all Indiana
                    towns. It was then a point to and through which the tide of travel swelled daily and nightly in
                    large volume. The steamers which bore this travel were palatial.  Busses rattled through the streets. The hotels were hustling caravansaries. The 
                        Madison
                     Hotel was a growth and necessity of the conditions then existing and typified activity
                    and vitalities that survive only in memory. Those whose recollections do not reach back to our
                    golden days, can not realize the comparative life, animation, city airs, and cheer of that time. 
                        Madison
                     was the business emporium, after 
                        Cincinnati
                     and 
                        Louisville
                    , and before a pig was ever packed for shipment at 
                        Chicago
                    , it was the noted pork mart. Its banking transactions were the heaviest in the State.
                    It was in its Branch Bank that James F. D. Lanier trained and matured himself to become one of the
                    greatest, most successful and noted financiers of Wall Street and of the Nation.
            Richard Carson Meldrum, in his recollections, dated 1879, tells of making the first clothes pins used
                    here. He made them at the bank for his mother. A number of his mother's friends, learning
                    of the "new things," wanted them, so he went to work and made them and took them
                    tied up in half dozens in a basket and sold them to the ladies at twenty-five cents per dozen. Mr.
                    Meldrum says he thinks these were the first clothes pins made or used west of the mountains.
            Meldrum remembered living in 
                        Columbus
                     and going to 
                        Madison
                     by stage on the first opening of the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     road, of the ride behind the locomotive, the "Elk Horn," borrowed at 
                        Louisville
                     and taken by oxen to 
                        North Madison
                     up the 
                        Michigan
                     Road; also about Mr. W. G. Wharton going to 
                        Indianapolis
                     on horseback with money collected as county treasurer ($1,500 in a pair of
                    saddle bags); of meeting a second and third treasurer on the same mission, and of the heavy rains
                    and high creeks, and on reaching Clifty creek, near 
                        Columbus
                    , it was found bank full and after hollowing several times, a man came in sight on the
                    opposite bank and told them to wait and he would see what could be done. He went to a stable, got a
                    trough, rolled it down to the water, bailed it out, got a paddle and started across just above the
                    mill dam. Over he paddled and Mr. Wharton was induced to take the seat first and then take the
                    saddle bags. He then went on his way.
            On the northwest corner of Second and Central avenue, stands a house that long ago and for many years
                    was the home  of the Leonard family. George M. Leonard built the
                    house which in its day was one of no mean pretensions. Mr. Leonard was an honest and successful
                    merchant. He was a man of more than ordinary modesty and dignity of character. He was of 
                        New England
                     origin and a native of 
                        Massachusetts
                    . In early life, before the use of steamboats on our western waters, he purchased in 
                        Boston
                     and 
                        New York
                     a small stock of goods which he wagoned to Pittsburg, there providing himself with a
                    flat-boat, floated his entire fortune to 
                        New Orleans
                    . Disposing of his goods at fair prices, he took the proceeds and converting them into
                    notes of the bank of the 
                        United States
                    , placed them in a leather belt, which for safety he buckled around his person and
                    returned to 
                        Boston
                     with his gains.
            As there were neither boats nor stage routes in those days, Mr. Leonard concluded he would not invest
                    his earnings in horseflesh nor in expensive passage by sea, to reach his home, so he adopted the
                    more economical mode of making the trip on foot, which he successfully accomplished. Who is there of
                    today who can parallel such an adventure or who possesses the will or pluck to undertake the passage
                    alone and on foot from 
                        New Orleans
                     to 
                        Boston
                    , a large portion of the way through forests and uninhabited regions ? But our early
                    Madisonians were men of rugged will, sturdy pioneers whom hardship and danger never daunted; with
                    whom to conceive an enterprise was only esteemed the preliminary step necessary to its
                    accomplishment.
            II. EARLY HISTORY
                    OF MADISON
            
            By JOHN VAWTER, April 13, 1850
            Father, with six or eight other Kentuckians from 
                        Franklin
                     and Scott counties, visited what was then called the New Purchase at a very early date.
                    A part journeyed by land and a part by water. The land party crossed the Ohio
                    river at Port William (Carrolton), the others descended the 
                        Kentucky
                     and Ohio rivers in a pirogue to a point opposite 
                        Milton
                    . The pirogue answered the double purpose of carrying forward the provisions of the
                    company and enabling the men to pass from one bank to another, swimming their horses alongside. The
                    company made their headquarters in the river bottom in  the
                    western extremity of the city limits of 
                        Madison
                    . In the day, the company divided into two parties, exploring the adjacent highlands to
                    the head of Crooked creek and the neighboring lands of Clifty. They met at night and reported their
                    discoveries. To Crooked creek, they gave the name of Mill creek; to Clifty, Hard Scrabble; but
                    subsequently on learning the name of each stream, the red man's name prevailed with the
                    settlers.
            At that time, December, 1805, Elder Jesse Vawter selected the spot where Judge S. C. Stevens now
                    resides on the hill. (This place is now, 1915, occupied by Dr. William R. Davidson.) He returned
                    home and made every arrangement for taking possession of his new home early in the spring of 1806.
                    He, with others, made the first settlement in and about 
                        Madison
                    . Nearly all the settlements made in that year and the two or three succeeding years
                    were made on the highlands. Among the first settlers in the county were Elder Jesse Vawter, James
                    Underwood, Joshua Jockson, Colby Underwood and James Edward, all of the Baptist denomination. East
                    of Crooked creek were Col. John Ryker, Paul Froman, Ralph Griffin, Joseph Lane and others, the last
                    two families being Baptists. West and southwest were Col. Samuel Smock, James Arbuckle, Michael and
                    Felix Monroe, Isaiah Blankenship, Amos Chitwood and others. The first corn was raised in 
                        Jefferson county
                     in the year 1806, most of it being planted as late as June.
            The first settlement made in the river bottom near 
                        Madison
                     was by William and John Hall in 1806 or 1807, a little above Isom Ross's
                    tan-yard (purchased by Johnathan Lyon in 1808). The second was made by John H. Wagoner on the high
                    bank a little west of Main street, in 
                        Madison
                    . (Main street, as it was then called, is now known as Jefferson street). Wagoner
                    unloaded his boat on the tenth day of May, 1808, and immediately commenced building a house to live
                    in. The third person who settled in the limits of the present city was Robert M. Trotter, afterwards
                    a justice of the peace. The fourth was Joshua Wilkinson, a single man. The fifth was Joseph
                    Strickland, afterwards justice of the peace, and with Strickland came a man by the name of
                    Schofield, and perhaps others not recollected. Next came John Booth, the first innkeeper;  then John Sering, Samuel Burnet, the second innkeeper; then
                    Charles Easton with a number of others, which brings us down to the time of the first sale of lots
                    in 
                        Madison
                     in February, 1811. During all the above time, all the preaching for twenty or
                    thirty-five miles up and down the river and through the county was of the Baptist order. The first
                    sermon ever delivered within the chartered limits of 
                        Madison
                     was by Elder Jesse Vawter, among the cottonwoods on the river beach, a little above the
                    stone mill. The text was the first verse, first chapter of the gospel of St. John. It was a funeral
                    occasion, the death of Widow Slack. Mrs. Jonathan Lyon, mother of Philemon Vawter, closed the
                    service. This was the first death and funeral preached in the vicinity of 
                        Madison
                    .
            After the land sales in May, 1808, and the sale of lots in 
                        Madison
                     in 1811, the town and country commenced filling up pretty rapidly with settlers.
            I was first justice of the peace within the vicinity of 
                        Madison
                     while it was in Clark county. My commission bears the date of the sixteenth of July,
                    1808. The first judges for 
                        Jefferson county
                     were Gen. William MacFarland, president of the court of common pleas, Samuel Smock and
                    John Paul, second clerk, Richard C. Talbott, first sheriff, John Vawter. I am not certain but that
                    Basil Bently was second sheriff in 
                        Jefferson county
                     but very soon retired from office. The third sheriff was Thomas T. Stribling. The first
                    court ever held in 
                        Jefferson county
                     was held in a log cabin owned by John H. Wagoner, in February, 1811. The sale of the
                    first lots in 
                        Madison
                     (old town) was in the same month; the first proprietors, Col. John Paul, Jonathan Lyon
                    and Louis Davis. The first addition west was surveyed by me for Col. John Paul. The first
                    courthouse, called the Buckeye House, was built by myself for the proprietors. The first jail was a
                    square log house, builder's name not recollected. First public house was kept by John
                    Booth, second by Samuel Burnett, third by Major Henry Ristine.
            The first store was owned by John Sering & Co., a drug store was started about the same time
                    by Dr. Drake & Co., the third store was opened by S. C. Stevens, the fourth by myself, fifth
                    by J. & N. Hunt, sixth by McCabe and Co., seventh  by
                    Mr. Clarkston, eighth by John Mclntyre. The first physician was of the name of Fiske, second, James
                    Hicks, third John Howes, fourth David H. Maxwell. The first attorney-general, Alex A. Meek, second a
                    man by the name of Oulds, third, Gen. William Hendricks. The first dray ever used in 
                        Madison
                     was owned by Simeon Reynolds, and managed by his most excellent son, William W.
                    Reynolds.
            I was personally acquainted with the first proprietors of the town. A more excellent or upright man
                    than Colonel Paul was hard to find. He was one of Gen. George Rogers Clark's bold
                    adventurous soldiers, who aided in the capture of 
                        Kaskaskia
                     and 
                        Vincennes
                    . He was elected one of the representatives from Clark county in the year 1810. This was
                    previous to the formation of 
                        Jefferson county
                     and Colonel Paul then resided at 
                        Madison
                    .
            I was crier of the first sale of lots in 
                        Madison
                    , but had nothing to do with the surveying or laying out of the same. I laid out the
                    first addition west of 
                        Broadway
                     for Colonel Paul in the winter of 1814-15. Had nothing to do with any addition to the
                    town.
            My second visit to Indiana was in May 1806. I came in a pirogue and landed a little above the stone
                    mill opposite 
                        Milton
                    , visited the highlands east and west of Crooked creek, continued at my
                    father's half faced shanty until near the middle of June in order to assist him in
                    getting his corn planted, returned in the same craft with my mother and other relatives to
                            
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               . In September, 1806, my father moved his family from 
                        Kentucky
                     to Mount Glad, the place where Judge S. C. Stevens now resides. In December, 1806, I
                    made my third visit to Indiana in company of John Branham. He aided in driving my
                    father's cattle and fattened and stock hogs from his 
                        Kentucky
                     residence to his new home in what was then a wilderness. At this time, I made a
                    selection of a place to move my family to in the spring. It was the identical spot where the depot
                    and machine shops of the railroad company are now on the hill. In March, 1807, I arrived with my
                    family, wife and one child at my originally selected site in the woods. In 1808,1 built a house on
                    the hill  (
                        Michigan
                    ) nearly opposite Godman's creek and resided there until 1812. In this year,
                    I purchased property in 
                        Madison
                     and moved to it. The property purchased by me was two lots on Main Cross street, east
                    of Polley & Butler's iron store and west of Mulberry street. In 1814, I sold both
                    lots to Mr. David McClure. In the winter of 1815, I purchased of Colonel Paul the corner now owned
                    by George M. Phelps, and built a large farm-house, large for the size of 
                        Madison
                    . Had the water conveyed by pipes, in connection with Colonel Paul, from the hill at
                    Hites. In the same year, I sold it also to David McClure, moved to Vernon in November, 1849, with my
                    family. Since November, 1849, I have resided in Morgan-town, Morgan county, Indiana.
            III. ADVENTURES
                    OF EAELY SeTTLERS
            
            By ROBERT and ALEXANDER MILLER
            
            It is said that when an Indian story-teller relates the history and the folk-lore legends of his
                    tribe, he always begins by saying: "This is what my grandfather told me when I was a little
                    boy."
            Now, I am not an Indian nor much of a story-teller, but I am going to write a few homely incidents of
                    pioneer life and I am going to begin just as though I were a Cherokee Indian historian, and will say
                    before I begin that the incidents of which I write were related to me, from his own personal
                    knowledge, by my grandfather, as we sat before the wood fire in the wide old fire place, years and
                    years ago.
            "This is what my grandfather told me when I was a little boy."
            His father came, with his wife and one child, from Buncombe county, 
                        North Carolina
                    , in the early years of the nineteenth century. They came, with other settlers, by way
                    of the old Indian trace (warrior's trace), a footpath used by the Indians, leading from
                    the mountains of the southern states to the wilderness and Great Lakes of the north. The journey was
                    made on horseback, the few household goods packed on one horse, the wife and child on another, while
                    the husband and father walked alongside, with his trusty rifle ready for immediate business.
            
            The little company settled in the western part of 
                        Jefferson county
                    , along Neil's creek and my grandfather was born in a block-house where the
                    village of 
                        Kent
                     now stands, and which was then called Dobbinsville. Neil's creek was named
                    for a man of that name who was lost in the woods while hunting cattle, and having no means of
                    kindling a fire, crept into a hollow log to spend the night and was frozen to death.
            The settlement was soon cleared, the land was new and strong and good crops were almost a certainty.
                    But the settlers were compelled, much against their will, to share with the original denizens of the
                    forests. Bears, deer, squirrels and wild turkeys made sad inroads on grain fields and the deer
                    helped the settlers to dispose of the tobacco crop, eating the green leaves, to the last vestige,
                    they being, curiously enough, the only animal that will eat "the weed."
            Squirrels were by far the most troublesome animals, and late in summer and fall, they collected in
                    the field in hordes. Three or four times each day, all the men and boys, and often the women and
                    girls, went through the fields with some noise-making instrument, usually a
                    "horse-fiddle," and frightened them out. Usually the frightening was done by one
                    member of the family, while the others patrolled the fences and with the aid of the dogs, of which
                    there was always from one to a dozen, slew the little rodents by dozens as they left the fields. The
                    hams of the squirrels were preserved, salted and smoked in the wide mouthed chimneys, while the dogs
                    fell heir to the remainder.
            The woods abounded with deer and there was little trouble in supplying even the largest families with
                    fresh venison. One of the favorite means of securing fine deer was to kill them after nightfall
                    about the "licks or sulphur springs," where they came to drink in the darkness.
                    This feat was accomplished by placing on the bank near the springs and on the windward side, a bit
                    of spongy, rotton root of the sugar maple or beech tree, known as "fox-fire,"
                    (probably a corruption or phosphor), which shone with a phosphorescent glow in the darkness, on the
                    opposite side of the Lick, a rifle placed on two crotched sticks was trained on the fox-fire, and a
                    blind of green boughs thrust into the ground concealed the hunter. When the deer came to drink, the
                    hunter waited until he came  in range and when the fox-fire was
                    hidden from view, he knew the deer was where he wanted him. Then a touch on the trigger, a flash, a
                    report, and nine times out of ten the deer was his.
            My great-grandfather was an adept at this mode of hunting and on one occasion he met with an
                    adventure which, but for the watchful presence of his dog, might have been serious. He had gone to a
                    "lick" not far from home, had fixed his paraphernalia before dark and settled down
                    to wait for the coming of a deer. He waited for three hours with the dog at his side but no deer
                    rewarded his patience. The dog was uneasy and several times started up with a growl at a rustling in
                    the leaves near at hand, but at a word from his master lay down again. Finally the old
                    man's patience was exhausted and taking up his gun, he arose to return home. The dog
                    growled and raised his bristles, scenting an unseen enemy. His master gave him permission to go and
                    he needed no second bidding. He darted into the shadows and in a twinkling was mixed up in a
                    terrific combat with a hidden foe, while the amazed hunter stood with his gun ready to shoot, but
                    afraid to do so for fear of killing his dog. Finally, after a desperate struggle, the combatants
                    drew apart for a moment and the hunter stepped forward, and with the muzzle of his rifle almost
                    touching the animal fired. Dragged into the light, the animal proved to be an enormous wildcat which
                    had also been deer hunting, and, meeting with no success, had started man-hunting instead, and
                    except for the presence of the faithful dog, would undoubtedly have attacked him in the screen of
                    boughs.
            Panthers or "painters" as they were called in those days were also numerous and
                    committed many depredations on live stock and poultry and would even attack a human when hungry. One
                    summer afternoon my great-grandfather took his rifle and strolled out into the woods, seeking some
                    stray calves. Passing along a path in the edge of the woods, he experienced that indefinable feeling
                    we all have when under the fixed steady gaze of another's eye. Lifting his eyes, he met
                    those of a huge panther crouched on the top of a sapling which had been broken down about twelve
                    feet from the ground, resting on the stub. The animal was ready for a spring, but  the hunter was too quick for him and a rifle ball brought him to mother
                    earth.
            A record of pioneer life without a bear hunt would be incomplete so I will tell you of two in which
                    my own grandfather took part, hila-hi-yu (long ago), as the Indian story teller would say. Two young
                    ladies returning late in the afternoon from a visit to a neighbor, saw a bear come out of the
                    cornfield just ahead of them, cross the path and shamble into the woods. There had been much
                    complaint in the neighborhood concerning the depredations of a bear which had stolen pigs, chickens
                    and other things good for a bear's appetite, but whose lair could not be located. Here
                    was a chance to track the robber home and the girls instantly took advantage of it. Keeping
                    themselves hidden from the bear, they followed him through the woods for half a mile until he
                    disappeared in the hollow top of a huge leaning maple tree. Then, knowing that he was safe for a
                    time, the girls hastened home and informed their fathers. No time was lost. The neighbors were
                    summoned and in a short time a dozen men armed with guns and axes and guided by the two girls,
                    surrounded the tree. A huge fire was kindled to light up the scene, for it was now dark in the
                    forest, and while two sturdy axe-men fell to chopping at the base of the trees, the others disposed
                    themselves near where the top of the tree would strike the ground, expecting to make an easy
                    conquest of bruin when he appeared, stunned by the shock of the falling tree. In half an hour the
                    tree came crashing down, splitting open from end to end, but no bear appeared. The hunters stared in
                    surprise until a yell from one of the axe men called their attention and the clumsy beast appeared
                    climbing out of the stump. With one accord, the riflemen ran toward the butt of the tree and as the
                    high animal shambled away amid the treacherous shadows, every gun in the party was discharged in his
                    direction, but so far as could be learned, not a bullet touched him and he disappeared in the
                    darkness.
            One Sunday afternoon, late in the summer, my grandfather, who was then about grown, with another
                    young man about the same age, went home from church or Sabbath school with a neighbor's
                    son to take supper and remain until time for evening services. After supper, the man and his wife
                         left the three boys to "do the chores,"
                    and started to church. After completing the chores, the boys started off just before dark. The path
                    led through a "windfall," a tangled mass of logs and brush overgrown with
                    blackberry briars, grape vines, whipsedge and bushes. About the middle of this delightful place,
                    they stumbled on to a small black bear which had killed a pig and was making a meal of him. When the
                    boys appeared, the bear left his quarry and darted into the thicket, but knowing that he would not
                    go far, two of the boys remained on guard while the third returned to the house for a gun. When he
                    returned, the three boys endeavored to get a shot at bruin, but he was too shy to venture into the
                    open. He could be heard sniffing, grunting and crashing through the tangle but was too wary to
                    venture into view. At last the boys lost their patience and started through the jungle in pursuit
                    and for two hours they played hide-and-seek with bruin in the moonlight, until the man and his wife
                    returned from church, when the boys learned that the gun they carried was empty. When they realized
                    the risk they had taken in chasing a hungry bear for three hours with an empty gun, their only
                    consolation was in knowing that it was a cowardly little black bear and not a war-like grizzly.
            One more incident and I am done. A lady returning from a visit to a sick neighbor, just before dark
                    one evening, discovered that she was being followed by a panther. She quickened her pace and the
                    animal did the same. When she slackened her footsteps, the panther did likewise. Knowing that the
                    brute would overtake her, she took refuge in a deserted cabin in a small clearing, hoping to outwit
                    him. Instead of passing, however, he came up and clawed at the door. The woman climbed into the loft
                    and the panther soon clambered to the roof and began tearing at the boards. Fearing that the panther
                    would gain an entrance, she descended and the animal did the same. All night long the game of
                    hide-and-seek went on until daylight appeared, when the panther was frightened away by a passing
                    hunter and the woman released. The strain and horror of that terrible night in the lonely cabin,
                    besieged by the savage beast was too much for her nerves and she died a few days later from the
                    effects of sheer fright. This lady's name, if I remember rightly, was Gowans.
            
            IV. THE MADISON
                    AND INDIANAPOLIS RAILROAD
            
            By C. G. SAPPINGTON
            
            One of the first railroads built west of the Alleghenies was the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad, now a part of the 
                        Louisville
                     Division of the 
                        Pittsburg
                    , 
                  Cincinnati, Chicago
                and 
                        St. Louis
                     road. The actual work of building the road was commenced in the year 1836, at which
                    time the Ohio river was one of the great highways of 
                        Madison
                    , one of the gateways of commerce. Her citizens had every reason to believe she would
                    become one of the chief cities of the west; great pork houses were built, and other industries
                    established. She then managed a trade over hundreds of miles of territory and it was to increase
                    this trade that a railroad was projected and built. The very thing that men sixty years ago expected
                    to advance the interest of 
                        Madison
                    , only had a tendency to turn the tide backwards.
            Mr. Milton Stapp, a lawyer of prominence in those days, argued for the building of the road before
                    several sessions of the legislature, but without success until the Internal Improvement Act was
                    passed, January 27, 1836, and work on the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad was commenced by the State soon after. The following composed the engineering
                    corps that surveyed the road from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Indianapolis
                    : Jesse F. Williams, chief engineer; Gen. Thomas R. Morris, resident engineer; John
                    Woodburn, acting State commissioner; Edward W. Beckwith, resident engineer; R. M. Patterson, J. H.
                    Sprague, J. B. Bacon, John Mitchell and William Clyde, assistant engineers. James Tilden, John G.
                    Sering, William V. Utter and W. Hoyt, rodmen; Richard J. Cox, J. T. Burns, William Spann and J.
                    Vanosdol, axmen. William Stough and A. W. Flint were the contractors who built the first section of
                    the 
                        Madison
                     hill (or plane), beginning at the foot of the plane, including the Crooked creek
                    culvert and trestle at Third street to the upper end of Big Cut. Joseph Henderson built the second
                    section, commencing at the upper end of first cut to upper end of second (or Big) cut. James
                    Giddings built the third section to the top of the plane, David C. Branham and F. W. Monroe the
                    first section beyond 
                        North Madison
                    , Robert Cresswell the next, and Danville Branham the next,  which reached Wirt station, six miles from 
                        Madison
                    . The contractors who built the remaining portion to Vernon (22 miles from 
                        Madison
                    ) were David Pallertine, Samuel Lefever, J. D. Fanel, Edward Fanel, John Carnahan,
                    Thomas Hays, Adam Eichelberger, A. Hallom & Co., Rundell Bird & Co., Cochran
                    & Douchett, William McKenzie, Overhaltz & Goodhue, William Griffith and John Carboy.
                    Other contractors completed the road beyond Vernon.
            The road was completed to the different points on the line as follows: 
                        
                     Graham, 17 miles from 
                                    Madison
                                , Nov. 29, 1838.
                     Vernon, 22 miles from 
                                    Madison
                                , June 6, 1839.
                     Queensville, 27.8 miles from 
                                    Madison
                                , June 1, 1841.
                     Scipio, 30.3 miles from 
                                    Madison
                                , June 1, 1843.
                     Elizabethtown, 37.3 miles from 
                                    Madison
                                , September, 1843.
                     
                        
                                    Columbus
                                , 44.9 miles from 
                                    Madison
                                , July, 1844.
                     Edinburg, 55.4 miles from 
                                    Madison
                                , Sept. 8, 1845.
                     
                        
                                    Franklin
                                , 65.5 miles from 
                                    Madison
                                , Sept. 1, 1846.
                     
                        
                                    Indianapolis
                                , 86 miles from 
                                    Madison
                                , Oct. 1, 1847.
                  
                    
            
            When it was opened for business as far as Graham, the State leased it on the last of April, 1839, to
                    Robert Branham, Elias Stapp, D. C. Branham and W. H. Branham, who continued in charge until June,
                    1840. Under the terms of the lease the State was to receive 40% of the gross receipts, the lessees
                    to bear all the expenses of operating. The expense was not very great as Mr. R. J. Elvin, who was
                    connected with the road for over fifty years but is now dead, did all the clerical work for the road
                    and Mr. Bartholomew Tierney all the blacksmithing and repair work necessary in those days. Mr. John
                    G. Sering, State agent, was on all trains to look after the interests of the State. The trains would
                    leave 
                        North Madison
                     in the morning and run to Graham, returning in the evening. The gross receipts the
                    first month were $849.38, and for the first fifteen months were $15,702.00,
                    which was a good showing in that period. The next lessees were John G. Sering and William Bust, from
                    June, 1840, to June, 1841, when the State again took charge.
            The road was completed to Queensville at this time and the State was out of money, so the work was
                    delayed for some months. John Woodburn, Victor King and George W. Leonard,  of 
                        Madison
                    , started a bank in 1841, issued bills (called Woodburn's bank bills) and
                    assisted the State in building the road to Scipio, three miles farther north. On February 21, 1843,
                    the State sold the road to the 
                        Madison
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad Co., N. B. Barber, president, for $600,000.00, who gave mortgage to
                    the State for the full amount, but by manipulation the company got it from the legislature for
                    $75,000.00 in 5% State bonds worth on the market about fifty cents on the dollar, making
                    the net cost $37,500.00. It was considered a clear case of thieving from start to finish.
                    The State paid out for the building and equipment of the line to Queensville
                    $1,624,291.93, of which $62,493.21 was from tolls. The owners of the road then
                    completed it to 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The inclined plane between 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        North Madison
                     was commenced in 1836 and completed in 1841. It is 7,012 feet long, with a total
                    elevation of 413 feet or 311 feet to the mile. There are two cuts on the plane, one 65 feet and the
                    other 100 feet deep, cut through the solid rock. Previous to the completion of the plane, passengers
                    were transferred between 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        North Madison
                     by omnibus. An old resident of 
                        Madison
                    , Mr. William Stapp, brother of one of the first lessees of the road, says:
                    "The omnibus did not always leave on time. When the driver would hear that the mayor or
                    some other dignitary was to leave on that train, he would wait an hour for the great
                    man's arrival." When the plane was completed, the cars were let down the incline
                    by gravity and hauled back with eight horses driven tandem to each car. The stables were located at
                    the foot of the plane and Joshua McCauley and Robert Hackney were the drivers. Hbrses were used from
                    1841 to November 1848, when Andrew Cathcart's improved engine with two sets of cylinders
                    and a pinion working in a rack in the center of the track was put in use and gave good satisfaction
                    until Reuben Wells built the engine "Reuben Wells" (634) in July, 1868. Andrew
                    Cathcart was master mechanic of the 
                        Madison
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad Company, and drew plans for the improved (or cog) engine as it was called,
                    went to Baldwin's works in 
                  Philadelphia,
                            Pennsylvania
               , and superintended the
                    building of it.
            The following are the wrecks occurring on the plane: Nov. 4, 1845, a passenger car was being let down
                    the hill,  when a wood car following became unmanagable and
                    crashed into the coach, killing John Lodge, the first railroad conductor in the State, and several
                    othersi Engine "M. G. BRIGHT" (635) blew up at the foot of the plane in 1877,
                    killing engineer Lindley and a citizen of 
                        North Madison
                     named Hassfurder. The above are the only fatalities occurring on the plane.
            The practice of letting all freight and passenger cars down the incline by gravity was continued
                    until 1880, at which time, Col. J. R. Shaler, superintendent of the 
                  Jeffersonville, Madison
                and 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad issued orders requiring the hill engine to be attached in the rear of all cars
                    coming down and going up the incline. This order is still effective.
            That portion of the road built by the State was laid with English iron rails rolled at
                            
                  Wales, England
               , weighing 45 pounds to the yard and in three different
                    lengths–15 feet, 18 feet and 15 feet 9 inches. They were shipped by vessel to 
                        New Orleans
                     and by boat up the 
                        Mississippi
                     and Ohio rivers to 
                        Madison
                     and cost $75.00 per ton delivered. They were laid on cedar ties which were
                    fastened to a sill by a locust pin twelve inches in length. The sills were 10 x 10 and cost eight
                    cents per lineal foot. Cedar ties cost twenty-five cents each, but proved too soft to hold spikes
                    and were taken up within five years and sold for fence posts at 12½ cents. Locust ties
                    proved too hard, so oak was substituted which cost the same as cedar.
            The first iron was laid, August, 1838. Some of the old rails were taken up in 1893 and sent to the 
                        Chicago
                     exposition. When the rails were received, they were marked by cutting a square hole
                    half an inch in diameter in each end. Two of them are now in service at 
                        North Madison
                     just opposite the door of the old blacksmith shop. Many of them were taken up and mixed
                    with other iron for the building of the 
                        Louisville
                     bridge.
            In an interview with Mr. Elvin recently, he said John Lodge was the first conductor on the 
                        Madison
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad. He also had the title of superintendent from June 1, 1841, to March, 1842. W.
                    J. McClure was the first agent, appointed March 1, 1842, and served until February 18, 1843. Samuel
                    Thomas was the first master mechanic and general manager, Henry Jackson the first engineer, F.
                    Fleming the  second and F. Lunger the third. The first three
                    firemen were Jacob Bitterman, William Copeland, and William Baugh. They ran the three locomotives
                    owned by the company. The first passenger coach was built by Thomas L. Paine and Son, of 
                        Madison
                    , in the fall of 1838, but not used until March, 1839. It was very plain with small
                    windows near the top of the car, lever brakes, and was about thirty feet long. The freight cars came
                    from the east, via 
                        New Orleans
                    , had four wheels and a capacity of twenty-five or thirty hogs, or 10,000 pounds. When
                    the first seventeen miles of road were completed from 
                        North Madison
                     to Graham (17 miles) an arrangement for a grand excursion was made as the first
                    locomotive was expected to arrive from Baldwin & Co.'s works at 
                        Philadelphia
                    . It had been shipped on a vessel around by 
                        New Orleans
                    . During the passage, the ship was caught in a storm and the locomotive was thrown
                    overboard along with other freight in order to save the ship. The governor, State officials, members
                    of the legislature, and a number of other prominent men from various places having been invited to
                    participate in the festivities of the occasion, the management determined not to disappoint them. As
                    it had been given out that on Tuesday, November 29, 1838, they would be treated to a real
                    "steam car" ride, arrangements were made to borrow the locomotive
                    "Elkhorn" from the 
                        Louisville
                     & 
                        Portland
                     Railroad Company, at 
                  Louisville,
                            Kentucky
               , for the occasion, on account
                    of the loss of the new one expected from 
                        Philadelphia
                    . The locomotive was hauled from the east end of the track at 
                        Louisville
                     and placed on a boat which was used in transporting stone from the quarries east of 
                        Madison
                     to be used in the construction of the courthouse at 
                        Louisville
                     and the boat was then towed to 
                        Madison
                     where the locomotive was unloaded and then taken up the hill to 
                        North Madison
                     by a man named Martin. It required five yoke of oxen to haul it up the dirt road and it
                    was done amid great excitement. On Sunday afternoon following the arrival of the first
                    "steam car" that ever turned a wheel in Indiana, it was understood that the
                    engineer would raise steam and see that it was in good order for the grand excursion, and nearly
                    everybody in 
                        Madison
                     and vicinity tramped to 
                        North Madison
                     to see the wonderful machine work. It proved to be in good order but to the
                    disappointment  of the people there assembled, an exhibition of
                    its locomotive power was reserved for the grand blow-out in presence of the governor on Tuesday,
                    November 29. Great preparations were made for the reception of the distinguished guests. A banquet
                    was spread in an old frame building on the river front in 
                        Madison
                     and the Hon. Jesse D. Bright was master of ceremonies on this auspicious occasion, and
                    as he never did anything by halves, you can judge of the magnitude of the demonstration.
            The day for the grand "steam car ride" arrived and all the people of the
                    surrounding country turned out to see the sight. The governor and distinguished guests were on hand
                    and after the cars were filled with passengers, the "Elkhorn" with a full head of
                    steam moved off like a thing of life to the astonishment of the assembled multitude. After running
                    to Graham and back, the governor and party took carriages for the city, where they partook of the
                    banquet awaiting them. There was more noise and excitement made over the seventeen mile ride than
                    there would be now over a trip to 
                        California
                     in a balloon. During the trip one of the guests remarked that they had actually
                    attained a speed of eight miles per hour and he really believed that some day they would be able to
                    make fifteen miles per hour.
            The borrowed locomotive was returned to 
                        Louisville
                     and safely delivered to the 
                        Louisville
                     & 
                        Portland
                     Railroad Company. The expense of bringing it to 
                        Madison
                     and returning it again amounted to $1,052. This stroke of enterprise was
                    commended by the entire State and was heralded abroad, but not by telegraph as such a thing was
                    unknown in those days.
            After the loss of the first locomotive, a duplicate order was sent to Baldwin & Company and
                    the first locomotive owned by the 
                        Madison
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                     Railroad Company arrived safely in 
                        Madison
                     the first week in March, 1839, and on the sixteenth of that month, a trial trip was
                    made over the finished portion of the road. From November 29, 1838, until the arrival of the first
                    locomotive in March, 1839, the construction train was operated by horses, one passenger car passing
                    over the road daily. The road was formally opened for public traffic, April 1, 1839, as far as
                    Graham. While John Brough was president of the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                     Railroad Company, he spent over $100,000.00 of the
                    company's money trying to get a charter from the State of 
                        Illinois
                     for a road to 
                  St. Louis, Missouri
               , but failed. He also attempted to build
                    a road between 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        North Madison
                     to avoid the steep incline plane and after spending $309,000, the work was
                    abandoned on account of the company being out of funds. The old road bed, tunnels and abutments for
                    bridges can be plainly seen to this day. Brough was a smart man but a poor manager. He induced the
                    directors to purchase two steamboats, the "Alvin Adams" and the "David
                    White," at a cost of $70,000. They proved a bad investment and almost a total
                    loss.
            The first freight depot owned by the company was an old pork house at 
                        Madison
                    , purchased in 1849 from a man named Flint, and cost, including repairs,
                    $8,416.09. The passenger station was built in 1850 at a cost of $4,094.32. It
                    had a cupola and bell which was rung for five minutes one-half hour before the departure of each
                    train. The ringing of this bell was continued until 1888, when it was cracked. The company tried to
                    discontinue the old-time practice of ringing the half-hour bell several times, but the old residents
                    protested to such an extent that it was continued as long as the bell lasted.
            Things were run pretty loose on the road in those early days, and no check was kept on any of the
                    employees handling the company's funds. The favored ones remitted what and when they
                    pleased. Previous to the use of tickets on trains, the conductor would fill out a blank with name of
                    passenger, starting and stopping point and amount of fare collected. This was sent to the president,
                    who kept the record in his office. 
                        Madison
                     was the second pork-packing city in the west and the road did a big business hauling
                    hogs during the winter months. In the year 1852 they handled 124,000 hogs.
            V PIONEER DAYS
                    OF
                    THE MADISON & INDIANAPOLIS RAILROAD COMPANY
            
            By JOHN R. CRAVENS, February 27, 1896
            John Brough was president of the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad at a salary of $3,000 and I was vice-president at a salary of
                    $1,500 per annum. Brough was an educated man  and a
                    splendid speaker, but not a railroad manager. When we leased the 
                        Muncie
                     road in 1852, we arranged for an excursion to 
                        Muncie
                    . A few days before the day set, Brough wanted to back out as he was afraid we would
                    lose money and not get the cars back in time to load hogs for 
                        Madison
                     the next days. The hog trade was our main traffic and as we had so few coaches, we were
                    often forced to use the hog cars for passengers by making seats in them of clean lumber. I persuaded
                    him to run the train and greatly to our surprise, we could not carry the people–turning-
                    away hundreds. We cleared over $1,000.
            Our road was run in connection with a line of steamboats, the "David White,"
                    "Alvin Adams" and "Jacob Strader." We had our own wharfboat and
                    sometimes received three and four hundred people per day from the boats. This would necessitate
                    extra trains, which were often delayed awaiting the arrival of hog trains from the north in order to
                    get cars to load the passengers in. I would have to act in the capacity of conductor in emergencies
                    and had some strange experiences.
            I was bringing a hog train from 
                        Indianapolis
                     one day when the engineer wanted to get off at his home out on the road and he asked me
                    to act as engineer, to which I readily assented and got along all right until I attempted to back
                    the engine into the roundhouse at 
                        North Madison
                     and went clear through the brick wall.
            Our new engine and cars were shipped from the east as far as they could be by rail and we would send
                    ox teams to meet them and haul them to our track. We afterward received them by lake and rail to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , thence by boat to 
                        Madison
                    . Brough was very independent and made the directors of his road believe they had the
                    greatest monopoly of the age. We had leased the Belfountaine & 
                        Muncie
                     roads and newly projected lines were anxious for us to take hold of their schemes and
                    push them to completion. When the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                     railroad was building they wanted to come via 
                        Madison
                     and at a meeting of the directors of the two roads, Brough in his positive way declined
                    to have anything to do with them, saying: "The 
                        Madison
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                     can not father all the paupers in the country." He made the same  remark in 1853 when Chauncey Rose, of the 
                        Terre Haute
                     road wanted to lease his line to the 
                        Madison
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Mr. Rose replied in a forcible manner: "By God, gentlemen, you
                    don't have to and we will see who will be the paupers within two years," and he
                    did. Brough ruined the 
                        Madison
                     & 
                        Indianapolis
                     trying to build a road to avoid the steep incline plane at 
                        Madison
                    , called "Brough's Folly."
            In 1853, the Rev. Henry Ward Beecher was preaching in 
                        Madison
                     and being anxious to visit our shops on the hill, I took him up in my carriage and
                    suggested to him that we go down the incline in the "buggy," (a four-wheeled
                    handcar with a seat on each end and lever brakes). We were going pretty fast and I ased him if I
                    should check up. He replied in the negative, saying it was the first opportunity of his life to ride
                    fast and I let her go until the reverend gentleman with a wave of his hand said "too
                    fast." He spoke of it afterwards as the fastest travel of his life.
            Years ago it was said that the reason such an incline was built at 
                        Madison
                     was that State Commissioner John Woodburn owned the ground through which the first cut
                    was built and conceived the idea that the railroad running through his place would enhance its
                    value, and arranged to have his prospective son-in-law, Edward Beckwith, appointed engineer in
                    charge, otherwise the grade might have been longer, but of less magnitude. Beckwith afterward turned
                    out bad and had to flee the country.
         
         
         
            
               
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1850 1
            
            By DR. JOHN J. SCHLICHER, Professor of Latin in the
                    Indiana State Normal School
            As originally laid out in 1816, the site of 
                        Terre Haute
                     was a rectangular piece of ground, seven blocks north and south by five blocks east and
                    west. The land was on the east bank of the Wabash river, which there rises some
                    thirty to fifty feet above the water at the point where it is crossed by the National road. One
                    block, exactly in the center, was reserved for a public square, and here, a few years later, the
                    courthouse was built. Besides this, two further sites, each one-fourth of a block in extent, were
                    set apart, one for a seminary and the other for a church. These were located an equal distance,
                    respectively, east and northeast of the courthouse square.2 The former is today
                    still occupied by one of the city schools, while on the latter was erected the church building known
                    as the old Asbury Chapel, now used as a livery barn. When Vigo became a separate county in 1818, and 
                        Terre Haute
                     was made the county seat, an additional tier of blocks was added on the south, making
                    forty blocks in all, and extending from the river east to Fifth street, and from Eagle street on the
                    north to Oak street on the south. It was within this space that, with very few exceptions, the 4,605
                    inhabitants of 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1850 still lived.3
            
            Mr. J. R. Beste, an English gentleman who stopped at the 
                        Prairie
                     House, at Seventh and Main, in the summer of 1851, speaks of going to town from there
                    across the commons.4 The picture in his book which is intended to present the
                    view which he had of the town from the hotel, shows no houses 
                  
                     1 A paper read before the 
                                Terre Haute
                             Literary Club, Feb. 5, 1916.
                  
                     2 At the corner of Fourth and Mulberry and Fourth and Poplar streets.
                  
                     3 Even in 1S58, when the first city directory was issued, and the
                            population had grown to nearly twice what it was in 1850, there were only scattered
                            dwellings as far north as Locust street, and along the roads leading into the country.
                            Outside of these and a small settlement in the neighborhood of Twelfth and Chestnut, the
                            population then lived south and west of the old canal, i. e., the Vandalia and C. and E. B.
                            R. R.
                  
                     4 A regular bus ran from the hotel to down, Wabash
                                Courier, Dec. 2, 1850.
               
                     along Sixth street, except the Congregational church and a few
                    near the crossing of Sixth and Main.5 His description of the town in 1851 is
                    interesting as a contemporary document.
            
               
                        Prairie
                     House was situated at the entrance of the town and on one side of the National road,
                    and was separated from the town by a common. It did not stand alone, however, as Dr. Ezra
                    Read's house was very near on the opposite side of the road and of a little green. There
                    was also a cluster of other houses or villas in the neighborhood that belonged to the more wealthy
                    of the inhabitants. But from the hotel to the town there was a very disagreeable hot walk in the
                    sun, for it was not bordered by trees. At the end of it began the High street of the town, which was
                    lined on each side by stores. There was a square on the left hand side, where trees shaded the
                    pavement all around from the boiling sun above. On one side of the square was the other hotel of the
                    town, "Browne's House." It was considered to be more noisy and
                    frequented than the 
                        Prairie
                     House.6
            
            The courthouse of 1850, which stood where the present one stands, is shown by an old illustration to
                    have been a square, two-story building, similar to the old statehouse at 
                        Corydon
                    , with a hijp-roof surmounted by a slender tower which terminated in a small, round
                        dome.7 In 1849 the building and its surroundings moved one of the
                        newspapers8 to say that it was a "handsome piece of architecture
                    surrounded by locusts and enclosed with good palings."9 The north and
                    west sides of the square were lit up, according to the account, "so as to amount almost to
                    an illumination." That the average citizen also took pride in the square appears from the
                    following editorial of the previous year:
            "We cannot answer inquiries of XYZ about the courthouse yard. How much the county gets for
                    pasturing horses, hogs and cows, we know not. Whether the young trees have been skinned as a matter
                    of embellishment we cannot answer. Whether the gates are of patent swing and always closed, is one
                    great proposition which others must answer, and not us." 10
            
            
               
                  5 Beste, The 
                                Wabash
                            , 2 vols, in which he describes his travels and his stay in 
                            Terre Haute
                        .
               
                  6 Beste, The 
                                Wabash
                            , II, 136-7.
               
                  7 Condit, The History of Early 
                                Terre Haute
                            , 67.
               
                  8
                        Wabash Courier, Nov. 24, '49.
               
                  9 The locust was the common ornamental tree in 
                            Terre Haute
                         at the time, 
                     
                                Terre Haute
                             Express, May 17, 1848.
               
                  10
                        Wabash Courier, Jan. 29, '48.
            
            
            In response to a petition that same year, the courthouse bell was rung at noon and at 9 p. m., for
                    which services $80 a year was allowed.11 Three years later the
                    ringing of the evening bell was abolished, and the bell-ringer's salary was cut in two.
            In 1850 this courthouse was already an old building, as buildings went in those days. For seven years
                    it had not been considered adequate to accommodate all of the county's business, part of
                    which was housed in a second building, known as the Town Hall, which had been put up jointly by the
                    county and the city, near the northeast corner of Third and 
                        Ohio
                    .12 One can imagine that the city's business was not very
                    great in 1850. At least in 1843, when the actual town hall was built, the total income of the ity
                    from taxes was $1,089.14. The tax rate of the previous year had been ten cents on the
                        $100.13 The rate for 1850 was fourteen cents.14
            
            Some years before the date of our account, the block west of the courthouse square had
                        burned down, and the present brick building had been put up.15 They give a good idea of the business buildings of the time before 1850, with
                    their long, sloping roofs divided into sections by low brick walls, from which the chimneys rise. A
                    Catholic building, which still stands on the south side of the square, is the old State Bank, with
                    its massive Doric portico, erected in 1834.16 Fires often led to improvements in
                    those days, and it was one of these in December, 185017 which cleared the ground
                    for some of the brick blocks which are still standing northeast of the square.18
                    The newspapers speak of the handsome appearance of these buildings and comment especially on the row
                        
                  
                     11 April 3, '48. Council records in Oakey, Greater 
                                    Terre Haute
                                 and 
                                    Vigo County
                                , 115.
                  
                     12 This latter building, which had been erected, as we read, to
                            furnish Are proof quarters for the public records, burned down in 1864, whereupon the
                            present building on that corner was put up, by the county. Bradsby, History of 
                                    Vigo County
                                , 302.
                  
                     13 Bradsby, History of 
                                    Vigo County
                                , 435.
                  
                     14
                            Wabash Courier, May 11, '50
                  
                     15 In Dec. '41 according to Oakey, Greater 
                                    Terre Haute
                                 and 
                                    Vigo County
                                , 145.
                  
                     16 Now used as a museum.
                  
                     17
                            Wabash Courier, Dec. 9.
                  
                     18 Considerable building activity in this quarter is mentioned in
                            1850. Wabash Courier, Feb. 23 and Sept. 23, '50, May 3 and 31,
                            '51.
               
                     of small, square windows in the place of those along the north
                    side of 
                        Wabash
                     avenue.19
            
            The fire department was one of the most interesting features of 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1850. Each of the five wards had a fire warden, it appears, appointed for five
                        years.20 To obtain a quick and sufficient supply of water, the common
                    council originally allowed $3.00 for the first hogshead delivered at a fire,
                    $2.00 for the second, and $1.00 for the third, and 25 cents for each
                    succeeding hogshead till the fire was extinguished.21 This liberal allowance was
                    cut down, however, in 1847, to about half.22
            
            Most of the business in 1850 was done on the streets bounding the square. What is 
                        Wabash
                     avenue, or Main street, now, was then often spoken of as National Road street, and the
                    present Third street was always called Market street. This street was well suited for the purposes
                    of a market, being one hundred feet wide. In the latter part of 1849 we read of a new brick market
                    house being erected near the canal, which had just been opened, to accommodate the north side of
                        town.23 An ordinance of the next year fixes the market hours from November
                    till April at twelve to two o'clock, and for the rest of the year at from forty minutes
                    before sunrise to an hour and a half after sunrise.24
            
            New city ordinances were rather common in those years. One provided that hereafter no person or
                    persons shall be permitted to feed horses, cows, hogs and other domestic animals upon any of the
                    sidewalks of the town of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , under a penalty of one dollar with costs of suit for each and every offense.23 Soon after this the sign boards hanging across the streets were ordered taken
                    down. It must have been a serious state of things whose abatement moved the editor of the Courier to the following effusion: "We can now see daylight from one end
                    of the street to the other. Before it was a hard matter to look through canvas, plank, tin and sheet
                    iron, not to say anything about the danger of 
                  
                     19
                            Wabash Courier, June 28, '51.
                  
                     20 Bradsby, History of 
                                    Vigo County
                                , 450.
                  
                     21 Bradsby, History of 
                                    Vigo County
                                , 450.
                  
                     22
                            
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Express, Mar. 3, '47.
                  
                     23
                            Wabash Courier, Nov. 24, '49.
                  
                     24
                            
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Express, Mar. 3, '47.
                  
                     25
                            Wabash Courier, May 8, 50".
               
                     becoming cross-eyed from the inequality of the posts and
                        lettering."26 Another ordinance that same summer was to remove the
                    hitching posts from the north side of the square.27 This was followed promptly
                    by still another against letting horses or cattle stand on the sidewalks, and against hitching them
                    to the paling of the courthouse fence.28
            
            There seems to have been an ordinance also against letting your team run away in town. At least we
                    read of two men being fined $10.00 apiece for that offense, which was later reduced to
                    $5.00 by the city council, "owing to extenuating circumstances."29 On August 30, 1848, the Express says that frightened horses
                    in harness "split past the office like lightning once a week on the average."
            The extent of the city's business is roughly apparent from the fact that in 1843 there
                    were one hundred and twelve establishments carrying on forty-three kinds of business, which ranged,
                    as our informant says, "from gunsmiths to plowers."30 The
                    great variety of different kinds of business in such a small town is remarkable, but it was part of
                    the necessary condition of things before the time of railroads, when each community had to be more
                    or less self-sufficing. Some kinds of business found in 1850 are extinct, or nearly so, in 
                        Terre Haute
                     today. The directory of 1858 still has the following: Boat builder, brass founder,
                    cooper, dealer in cooper's tools, coppersmith, fur and skin dealer, gunsmith, rope maker,
                    soap and candle manufacturer, and a woolen factory. Photographers were just coming in in 1850, but
                    they were usually called Daguerreau artists.
            The most extensive business in 1850 was pork-packing, not only in 
                        Terre Haute
                    , but at all the towns, large and small, up and down the Wabash
                    river. The meat was packed in barrels, usually, and shipped to 
                        New Orleans
                     and other towns on the rivers in flatboats. Altogether, nearly 10,000,000 pounds of
                    pork and lard were said to have been shipped down 
                  
                     26 May 5, '51.
                  
                     27
                            Wabash Courier, Aug. 23, '51.
                  
                     28
                            Wabash Courier, Aug. 30, '51.
                  
                     29
                            
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Express, July 12, '48.
                  
                     30 Bradsby, History of 
                                    Vigo County
                                , 434. The information is from a memorandum deposited in the
                            corner-stone of the town hall, by S. P. Crawford, the treasurer of the town from
                        1832-1852.
               
                     the 
                        Wabash
                     in a year.31 The number of hogs packed in the various towns nearby
                    in the year of 1850-1 is given as follows: 
                  
                     
                                
                                    Terre Haute
                                
                                32
                            
                     66,600
                  
                  
                     Graysville
                     
                     13,000
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Vincennes
                                
                            
                     
                     11,000
                  
                  
                     Clinton
                     
                     
                     10,000
                  
                  
                     
                                
                                    Newport
                                
                            
                     
                     5,000
                  
                  
                     Montezuma
                     
                     5,000
                  
                  
                     Durkee's Ferry
                     
                     5,000
                  
                  
                     Hutsonville
                     
                     4,400
                  
                  
                     Merom
                     
                     
                     1,700
                  
                  
                     Darwin33
                     
                     
                     1,200
                  
               
            
            The only other town on the 
                        Wabash
                     which packed over 10,000 hogs was 
                        Lafayette
                    , with 38,600. Nearly 24,000 of the hogs killed in 
                        Terre Haute
                     were, according to the toll-keepers of the wagon bridge, driven across the river in the
                    last seven months of 1850, along with over 13,000 beef cattle.34 The
                    pork-packing establishments in the city were located on the river front, north and south of the
                    bridge, which at that time crossed the river from the foot of 
                        Ohio
                     street. The cooperage business was located just east of the slaughter houses. In 1848
                    the coopers had formed a union here to maintain a uniform price for barrels.35
            
            The advertisements of the time give a somewhat vivid picture of the city's business life.
                    A distinct feature was the amount of space taken by firms in wholesale centers, like
                            
                  Louisville, Cincinnati, New Orleans
                and
                    others, where the merchants of 
                        Terre Haute
                     went from time to time to replenish their stock. These advertisements were surpassed in
                    size and impressiveness only by those of patent medicines. But the art of advertising, as we
                    understand it, was not yet highly developed. Only a few as yet used large type, and the
                    illustrations, as a rule, were stecco-typed–a settee and a few chairs with curved legs
                    for furniture, a five-story playhouse for a hotel, a phoenix rising out of the flames for fire
                    insurance, etc. But what the advertisements lacked in typographical display, they often made up in
                    other ways, and, on the whole, they surpassed those of today as a steady diet for reading. The
                    language of the ordinary advertisement strikes 
                  
                     31
                            Wabash Courier, June 29, '50.
                  
                     32 A few years later it was over 100,000, Oakey, Greater 
                                    Terre Haute
                                 and 
                                    Vigo County
                                , 202.
                  
                     33
                            Wabash Courier, Feb. 1, '51.
                  
                     34
                            Wabash Courier, Jan. 4, '51.
                  
                     35
                            
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Express, Jan. 12, '48. Their example was followed by the
                            carpenters with an agreement not to work for less than $1.25 a day. 
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Express, May 10, '48.
               
                     one at present as unnecessarily formal and dignified. It is as
                    if a southern grandee were inviting his friends to a social function or apprising them of a birth or
                    a wedding. It must have been a time curiously distant from ours, if not in years, at least in tone,
                    when a man might hope to get more purchasers for his groceries by beginning them with a Latin
                    quotation. Suppose he had candles made of lard which he wanted people to know were better than those
                    made of tallow. He began in Latin: "Ex porko dare lucem," and continued, seriously
                    enough, without a suspicion that he might be putting forth that which was hog-Latin on at least two
                        counts.39 Another, appealing to more dignified motives, begins with
                    "Quod contemnitur, saepe utilissimum est," and proceeds to say that
                    "Thos. H. Hearn takes pleasure in notifying his customers that he has just received a large
                    and well-selected stock of confectionery, etc.,
                    candies–extracts–fish–toys." He also offers to furnish
                    "bread and bait." His bakery is a place "where wedding cake may be
                    obtained from that kind which suits the most luxurious to the humble sort with which
                    'love in a cottage' is content."37 We read in
                    another place:
            "The undersigned, thankful for the liberal patronage which he has received, and anxious to
                    merit and receive further favors, would say that he is still manufacturing wagons, carts, drays, and
                    all kinds of heavy vehicles on short notice and of the very best materials the country can furnish.
                    Having been raised to the business of blacksmithing and depending on it for a support, I am always
                    willing to work for anything. I agree to take produce in pay, whether calicoes or ribbons or
                    otherwise, and my work shall be equal to that of the biggest blower in the state."
            Still another wants "any quantity of otter, deer, mink, wildcat, house cat, fox, coon, wolf,
                    lynx, opossum, martin, and rabbit skins."
            It would be a mistake to think that the inhabitants of 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1850 had to go without most of the luxuries of the present age. Here is what one of
                    the merchants has just brought from 
                        Cincinnati
                    :
            "Domestic and imported candies, nuts in all their variety, mushroom, walnut, John Bull, and
                    lemon sauces; sardines, lobsters, mackerel, cod, salmon, clams, pigeon, oysters, fresh and
                    hermetically sealed; foreign and 
                  
                     36
                            Wabash Courier, Nov. 29, '51.
                  
                     37
                            Wabash Courier, May 26, '49.
                  
                     38
                            
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Express, Dec. 30, '46.
               
                     domestic pickles of every kind; 
                  Ohio, Kentucky, Baltimore
                and 
                        Boston
                     mustard; Western Reserve, Cream Durham and Pine Apple cheese; perfumery, a complete
                    stock; and figs, raisins, citrons, Zante currants and dates–all fresh etc.,
                        etc.,"39
            
            A detailed statement of how many dozens or hundreds of each article a man had on hand was also a
                    common advertisement–200 dozen thimbles, 20 dozen pocket knives, 50 dozen horn combs, 30
                    gross suspender buttons, 200 dozen bars of shaving soap, and so on, through a list of some thirty
                    articles. One drug store, in its advertisement, claims to give the exact amount in stock of all
                    different articles it has for sale.40 This statement of the amount of an article
                    in stock was especially common in the case of the various brands of cigars, or
                    "segars," as they usually called them at that time.
            There were at least nine churches in 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1850, and thirteen in 1858, at the time of the first directory.41 They tried to raise money much as they do now. We read of permission given the ladies of
                    the Baptist church to have a "strawberry feast" in the town hall. A little later
                    another church obtained the hall for a "raspberry doings."42
                    If in this respect the churches were like our own, they were different in their insistence on dogma.
                    Sometimes a regular debate occurred, such as that between E. M. Knapp and Elder W. Begg in the
                    Universalist church (corner Fourth and 
                        Ohio
                    ), which was to begin on Monday evening and, presumably, to continue through the
                        week.43 The great question was, "Do the Scriptures of the Old and
                    New Testament Teach the Ultimate Happiness of All Mankind?" Revivals were common. In
                    December, 1850, we read that "an excitement in the shape of religious inquiry has been
                    going on for many nights at Universalist Jewett's, Universalist Cheever's and
                    the Methodist Churches."44
            
            The ministers were called upon to perform the function of public speakers and lecturers to a larger
                    extent than now. 
                  
                     39
                            Wabash Courier, Jan. 26, '50.
                  
                     40
                            
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Express, May 21, '48.
                  
                     41 The memorandum of S. P. Crawford for 1843 says there were nine in
                            that year.
                  
                     42 Council records for May, '51, in Oakey, Greater 
                                    Terre Haute
                                 and 
                                    Vigo County
                                , 117.
                  
                     43
                            Wabash Courier, Mar. 3, '49.
                  
                     44
                            Wabash Courier, May 20, '48.
               
                     Some like half of the lectures in the courses given in 
                        Terre Haute
                     at the time were by the ministers of the city and nearby towns. When a minister left
                    his charge to go elsewhere, he sometimes preached two farewell sermons, one to the citizens as a
                    whole, and the other to his congregation. Ministers were also called upon to deliver commemorative
                    addresses of one kind and another. For example, upon the request of the city council, Rev. M. A.
                    Jewett delivered a eulogy on J. Q. Adams, which was said by the paper to have been "in his
                    usual style–grand and imposing" and to have "enlisted the profoundest
                    attention of the whole audience."45
            
            This Mr. Jewett, who served the Congregational church for twenty-six years, was the immediate
                    predecessor of Lyman Abbott, who came to 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1860. Mr. Jewett was in the habit of handing in his resignation from time to time.
                    This, as his successor explains, was his way of asking for a vote of confidence.46 He did so in 1849, but the reason was not by all believed to be the one given by Mr.
                    Abbott. The more worldly-minded editor of one of the papers, who may not have known much about
                    parliamentary government, says "the reason was suspicioned to be not money
                        enough".47 However that may be, Mr. Jewett remained in 
                        Terre Haute
                     for another eleven years He filled a large place in the early church life of the city,
                    among other things conducting a revival here in 1847 with Henry Ward Beecher, who came over from his 
                        Indianapolis
                     pulpit to assist him.48
            
            The schools of 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1850 would be perhaps harder to recognize than anything else. It seems almost
                    incredible that it was only in 1860 that schools supported by taxation came to 
                        Terre Haute
                     to stay.49. There had been such schools for one year, 1853-4, but
                    the venture was obstructed by injunctions and the like. The city had bought the old seminary
                    building, which stood on the site of the present State normal school, and had rented two houses
                    besides. But the trustees evidently grew sick of their thankless job and gave it up after a
                    year's trial.50
            
            
               
                  45
                        
                     
                                Wabash
                             Courner, Dec. 21, '50.
               
                  46 Lyman Abbott, "Reminiscences," Outlook, Sept. 23, 1914, 207.
               
                  47
                        Wabash Courier, Nov. 12, '49.
               
                  48 Lyman Abbott, "Reminiscences," Outlook, Sept. 23, 1914, 207.
               
                  49 Bradsby, History of 
                                Vigo County
                            , 528.
               
                  50 Bradsby, History of 
                                Vigo County
                            , 528.
            
            
            In 1850 education was still on a par with selling soap and bacon. Anyone with the price of an
                    advertisement in his pocket might set up to teach. Sometimes a committee of some sort undertook to
                    establish a school and hired the teachers, or, at least, encouraged them, to embark on the
                    undertaking themselves. The work was carried on much as that of music teachers and business colleges
                    is now. It should be stated that the city provided school buildings which were rented to teachers
                    before it hired the teachers themselves. The seminary building just mentioned is a case in point.
                    This building was nearly completed on September 1, 1847, and in an advertisement of that date is
                    offered for the use of teachers free of charge.51 Most of the teachers, to judge
                    from the advertisements, seem to have held their classes in the basements of churches.
            One of the most ambitious ventures of the kind was the Vigo Collegiate Institute, which was
                    advertised to open on January 10,1848.32 The tuition was $16.00 a
                    term (22 weeks) for elementary pupils. A female department was opened a few weeks alter, with a
                    Professor Saule as a preceptor. This gentleman continued as a teacher in 
                        Terre Haute
                     for a number of years, and his entry upon his new position was heralded in the
                    advertisement as follows:
            "The distinguished reputation which Professor Saule has acquired in this community as a
                    gentleman of literary, scientific and classical attainments will secure for this appointment the
                    cordial approval of an intelligent public."53
            One month later still, the complete faculty of the institute appears in the advertising columns as
                    follows:
            E. Thompson Baird, Esq., president and professor of classical literature, mental and moral philosophy
                    and physical science. John B. L. Saule, professor of belles letters, English, literature, and
                    general history. William L. Baird, professor of mathematics.
            In another three weeks a tutor of German was added and in two months more a tutor in English and an
                    instructor in music.
            
               
                  51 In the 
                     
                                Terre Haute
                             Express.
               
               
                  52
                        
                     
                                Wabash
                             Courner, Jan. S, '48.
               
                  53
                        
                     
                                Wabash
                             Courner, Jan. 29, '48.
            
            
            The first catalogue, issued after six months, showed the following students: 
                  
                     Male College
                     33
                  
                  
                     Male Preparatory
                     20
                  
                  
                     Female College
                     24
                  
                  
                     Female Preparatory
                     12
                  
                  
                     
                     8954
                     
                  
               
            
            One term after the opening of the institute they were all to put up a commencement with the usual
                    string of orations and essays. The subjects of these were: Ambition as connected with Vice, Liberty,
                    Genius, America, The Progress of the West.
            There were in existence in 
                        Terre Haute
                     about the same time a Vigo Female Seminary, a 
                        Wabash
                     Female Seminary, a 
                        Terre Haute
                     Select School, a select Female School, and a St. Vincent's Academy for young
                    ladies. The last named gave instruction in the elementary branches, German, piano, drawing, oil
                    painting, oriental painting and the making of artificial flowers. The tuition ranged from
                    $3.00 a quarter for the last named accomplishment to $8.00 for piano and
                        drawing.55
            
            There were a number of individual teachers, also, who offered instruction in various specialties.
                    Whatever the value of their instruction, their ability to advertise their wares was considerable.
                    One Mr. De Grand Val, who obtained the town hall in May, 1848, for instruction in dancing, offered
                    to put the capsheaf on his benefactions in August by bringing a museum to 
                        Terre Haute
                    
               56 Another, who offered instruction in small sword exercises,
                    conceived of his art broadly, offering "to teach juvenile class in this exercise, connected
                    with oratorical and poetical actions, gestures and positions."57 Still
                    another offered a course in penmanship with a gold ring as a premium "for the most
                        improvement."58 A course in English grammar was also offered
                    ($3.00 for 30 lessons) in the same year by one who had previously advertised an
                    improvement in teaching as follows:
            
               
                  54
                        
                     
                                Wabash
                             Courner, July 15, '48.
               
                  55
                        Wabash Courier, Jan. 20, '49.
               
                  56
                        
                     
                                Terre Haute
                             Express, Aug. 23, '48.
               
                  57
                        
                     
                                Wabash
                             Courner, Mar. 10, '49.
               
                  58
                        Wabash Courier, Mar. 9, '49.
            
            
            "Mnemonical Seminary. Great Improvement in the Art of Teaching. The undersigned, having
                    recently made several important improvements in his system of teaching English grammar, geography
                    and natural philosophy, such as singing, which enables the pupil to commit to memory with great
                    facility, reading and reciting in concert, by which stammering and incorrect pronunciation are
                    prevented; and the science of mnemonics which strengthens the memory, so as to enable him to collect
                    with ease the most important dates of history and the offices of the different parts of speech,
                    would respectfully inform the ladies and gentlemen of this place and vicinity that he will commence
                    a course of lectures on the above sciences on Monday next and continue them for three months. Terms,
                    $2.00 per month."59
            
            In May, 1850, Mrs. Leggett's school for girls was advertised to open in the basement of
                    the Baptist church. This had expanded by August into Mr. and Mrs. Leggett's school for
                    young ladies and gentlemen, as well as for misses and boys, which offered to teach geography,
                    arithmetic and grammar for $3.00 a quarter and history and natural science for
                    $4.00, and Latin, Greek or French for $5.00 a quarter in addition. A 
                        Terre Haute
                     Institute for Young Ladies was started in 1851, which offered to give them physical
                    instruction and maternal care. St. Mary's of the Woods, now an important institution on
                    the other side of the river, was already well established in 1850, and a long list of the prizes
                    given by it in the different branches was regularly published in the newspapers.
            Institutions on the outside also advertised a good deal, among others the Western Military Institute
                    of 
                        Georgetown
                    ,
                        Ky.
                    , and the 
                        Memphis
                     Institute, which had a medical and a law department. It is noteworthy that both of
                    these were in the south.
            In December, 1851, James Hook, trustee of District number 5, advertised the opening of school for the
                    benefit of that district in the basement of the Baptist church. The instruction was put in charge of
                    a Mr. Tilly and a Miss Young, and "McGuffy's Works" were to be used.60 This last item seemed like the beginning of a new order.
            The old order had, to judge from the evidence, been dominated to a degree by the idea of
                    accomplishments, especially feminine accomplishments. It was, in other words, truly 
                  
                     59
                            
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Express, Sept. 1, '47.
                  
                     60
                            Wabash Courier, Dec. 27, '51.
               
                     southern. In spite of current opinion to the contrary, one is
                    inclined to think that in 1850 the women bulked larger in 
                        Terre Haute
                     than they do now–there had been a lecture on "Woman's
                    Rights," by a Miss Hunt, as early as 1847–and it is no wonder that we find
                    comments in the papers like the following: "Why is a lady like a locomotive?81 The answer is: Because she emits sparks, draws a train, transports the males (mails)
                    and says to the tender :Pine (k)not."62
            
            The conundrum business had quite a run at the time. There is an advertisement in the Wabash Courier for February 12, 1848, offering "a splendid gold pencil"
                    to the author of the best original conundrum. The offer was made by the agent for the Lable
                    Harmonicas, who was giving entertainments at the Stewart House (Second and Main). All the conundrums
                    were to be read at the evening performance. Of the entertainment, the paper says, a week later:
            "Our people have had their laugh, spent their money and learned to make conundrums. Nearly
                    everything is turned into a conundrum, and like many other things in this world, we suppose
                    conundrums will have their day."
            The paper was not mistaken. They did have their day. The following, among others, bears internal
                    evidence of the date of its origin: "Why is a lawyer like a sawyer? Because whichever way
                    he goes, down must come the dust." Sometimes one of these questions excited an interest
                    which was nation-wide. In 1849 a request ran through the papers asking for an explanation of the
                    passage of Genesis (19,11), where it says that "Jacob kissed Rachel, and lifted up his
                    voice and wept." The information sought was why he should have done such an unreasonable
                    thing on such an occasion. The Wabash Courier of June 9, 1849, published thirteen
                    reasons which had been given by as many newspapers over the country, each answer being based on the
                    preceding and showing why it must be wrong and its own answer right.
            The temperance movement seems to have been strong in 
                        Terre Haute
                     about that time also. There were local branches of both the "Sons of
                    Temperance" and the "Cadets of Temperance," each of which had a hall for
                    its meetings. They 
                  
                     61
                            
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Express, Feb. 17, '47.
                  
                     62
                            Wabash Courier, April 15, '48.
               
                     received considerable attention as organizations, especially
                    the latter. We read of their being especially invited to Sunday school anniversaries,63 of having Professor Saule read his temperance poem to them, and of voting their thanks
                    for a dinner given them at the Eagle hotel (Third and Mulberry).64 It is even on
                    record that Harrison township (in which 
                        Terre Haute
                     is located) voted against licenses in 1848.65 In 1843, we are
                    informed by a contemporary, in a document deposited in the corner stone of the old town hall, the
                    saloons, or "coffee-houses," as he calls them, had been reduced to three,
                    "which were scarcely able to pay expenses." A "
                        Washington
                    " temperance society, which had been started the year before, had 500 members
                    in a few days. "Liquor, as a beverage," he says, "is almost
                        unknown."68
            
            Among the organizations of 
                        Terre Haute
                     in 1850 should be mentioned one called the "Atalantian Litterate."
                    They had well-furnished club-rooms and a library, and maintained a course of lectures during the
                        winter.67 The course beginning January, 1849, was to contain "six
                    to ten lectures on literary, philosophical and historical subjects," to be given in the
                    society's hall at 7:30 o'clock, and was to cost $1.00 for a
                    gentleman or a family.68 Whether single females were admitted free or excluded,
                    is not stated. But, no doubt, they went in with the family, for a boarder always counted as one of
                    the family where he stayed.
            The subjects of these lectures and of others given about that time, are of some interest as showing
                    what people wanted or were willing to hear in those days. Among them are "
                        California
                    ," "The Mission of America," "Pythagoras,"
                    "The History of Epidemics," "The Siege of 
                        Troy
                    ," "The Age of Chivalry," "The Statesman," "
                        Rome
                    ," "The Vision of Daniel," "The Bright and Morning
                    Star," "The Early History of the Wabash Valley,"
                    "Poetry: Its Nature and Influence," "
                        Hungary
                     and Kossuth," "The Influence of Discoveries in Physical Science on
                    Civilization." Other societies also maintained 
                  
                     63
                            Wabash Courier, May 18, '50.
                  
                     64
                            Wabash Courier, Mar. 3, '49.
                  
                     65
                            
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Express, June 7, '48.
                  
                     66 Memorandum of S. P. Crawford, from Bradsby, History of 
                                    Vigo County
                                , 434.
                  
                     67
                            
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Express, Nov. 1, '47.
                  
                     68
                            Wabash Courier, Jan. 20, '49.
               
                     courses, as for example, the "Mechanic's
                    Historical Society." Many of the lectures were by local men, ministers, teachers, doctors,
                    and others.
            Other entertainments, somewhat less academic, were also frequent. In 1849 a Mr. Jackson gave a series
                    of entertainments at the courthouse consisting of invitations of prominent actors and orators, both
                    political and ecclesiastic. They were reported to be considered "first class" by
                    those who knew the originals, and to have given "great satisfaction to persons who
                    appreciate that class of entertainment."69
            
            There was also an exhibition of an oxyhydrogen microscope in the town hall, and a vocal concert by
                    the Higgins family for two nights. These performers were said to have "conducted themselves
                    with great modesty." "It would be good," says the reporter, "to
                    have a conscience as clear as Mrs. Higgins' voice."70 Then
                    there was a panoramic exhibition of the Hudson river and scenes from 
                        Virginia
                    –with 9,400 yards of canvas, which was said to have been "pronounced
                    by artists and critics to be the best work of art ever presented to the public."71 It was the time when people were interested in phrenology, also, and a
                    certain Anton gave lectrues "for a small fee" in 
                        Terre Haute
                     on the subject. He also gave charts and examined heads at Browns hotel (on the square),
                    presumably for a larger fee. Of four entertainments about the same time, the lectures on phrenology,
                    a lecture on phonetics, the exhibition of paintings and a company of minstrels, the lectures on
                    phrenology were pronounced the most interesting.72
            
            There were a number of concerts, and finally a "Grand Concert," to be given by one
                    Okah Tubbee, an Indian, who was heralded as "the greatest natural musician in the known
                    world." He put up at the 
                        Prairie
                     House and was charged 25 cents, and, as the paper puts it, "goes it strong on
                    natural principles and plays exquisitely on several instruments." Nor was this all. He had,
                    in addition, real Indian medicine for sale, which would cure some two dozen of the major ailments of
                    mankind, from bronchitis to cancer and from white swelling 
                  
                     69
                            Wabash Courier, Mar. 17, '49.
                  
                     70
                            Wabash Courier, Nov. 24, '49.
                  
                     71
                            Wabash Courier, Mar. 8, '51.
                  
                     72
                            Wabash Courier, May 10, '51.
               
                     and toothache to fits.78 Though he
                    threatened to stay but a few days, his advertisement appeared in the Wabash
                    Courier for several months.
            The desire of the people to be humbugged was further satisfied by the circus, the barbecue, the
                    camp-meeting, and last but not least, by patent medicines. There were two or three circuses in Tere
                    Haute each year, and, to judge from their names alone, they must have surpassed each other and
                    everything else. One of them, for example, was Mabel's Grand Olympic Arena and 
                        United States
                     Circus. As for political meetings, one was held at Fort Harrison, a short distance
                    north of town in 1848, during the Taylor campaign, at which a crowd was present estimated at from
                    15,000 to 30,000 people. They were all fed on the grounds, and it took three speakers, addressing
                    them simultaneously, to give them all a chance to hear.74 General Taylor
                    himself, who had been in command during the "battle" of Fort Harrison in 1812, had
                    been invited to come, but had sent his regrets.75
            
            The Fourth of July celebrations usually consisted of processions of the Sunday school children,
                    beginning in some cases as early as seven in the morning, a meeting at which there were songs, the
                    reading of the Declaration of Independence, an oration and prayer, and then a dinner spread in the
                    basements of the churches or in the courthouse yard. There was often a second meeting with speeches
                    later in the day, and even a third, on one occasion at least, in the greenwood north of town, with
                    still another collation. Verily, eating and listening to speeches was the order of the day. The
                    event was usually planned by a meeting of the young men at the town hall several weeks
                        beforehand.76
            
            Yet the stimulus furnished by these occasions was, after all, but temporary. They still left some 350
                    days of the year unprovided for. And with the incredible success of the Laws of Temperance and their
                    like in making 
                        Terre Haute
                     a place where "liquor as a beverage is almost unknown" it might have
                    gone hard with the population if they had not had a substitute. But they had, and they had it in
                    amazing abundance 
                  
                     73
                            Wabash Courier, May 17, '51.
                  
                     74
                            
                        
                                    Terre Haute
                                 Express, Sept. 6, '48.
                  
                     75
                            Wabash Courier, Aug. 19, '48.
                  
                     76
                            Wabash Courier, Aug. 19, '48.
               
                     and variety. The only big advertisers of 1850 were the makers
                    of patent medicine. They were the only ones, apparently, who could afford a whole column of space,
                    year in and year out. Their name was liquor, they could cure anything, and they spoke with
                        authority.77 Other quacks appeared in person and offered to "cure
                    all diseases left un-cured by the modern and more fashionable practice" and to guarantee
                    satisfaction for $10.00.78
            
            One gets the feeling in reading the papers of the period that the regular practitioner existed
                    largely by sufferance. He did not have the good sense to collect his pay while the patient was still
                    exhilarated, as the patent medicine man did, and so, frequently, he got none. The papers are full of
                    requests for the payment of doctor's bills. One of them even seems to have thought that
                    he could escape the general fate by foreign travel, at least this is what he put in the paper:
            "Fair Warning. Having determined to travel during the next two or three years, those
                    indebted will find it to their advantage to call on me within ten days and pay, or make such
                    arrangements as reason may dictate. All seven or eight year old demands must be
                    attended to without delay."
            Yet, in spite of these drawbacks, many of the doctors were men of good education and high character.
                    A fine specimen of this class was Dr. Ezra Read, who is said to have been a classical scholar, who
                    carried the Iliad about in his pocket, and a generally well-read man, to whom both
                    French and English authors were familiar. It was he who had been recommended as the
                    city's best physician to the English gentleman already referred to, who fell ill at the 
                        Prairie
                     House in 1851 and who speaks of him as a bright and intelligent companion and devoted
                    to his profession and his patients. It was, to be sure, rather hard for an English gentleman to
                    become accustomed to the doctor's keeping his hat on when he entered the
                    patient's room and to several other peculiarities which he shared with the professional
                    men of the frontier. Of one of these we shall let him give his own account:
            
               
                  77
                        
                     
                                Terre Haute
                             Express, June 16 and July 7, '47, June 28, '48.
               
                  78 See, for instance, the statement of the Graefenburg Company in the Wabash Courier, Jan. 15, '48, which is only a sample of
                    many.
            
            
            "Poor Dr. Read! he was a thorough American, and proud of being so. Lying in bed
                    with the door of my room open, owing to the heat of the weather, I used to hear his well-known step
                    and the sounds which denoted that he was clearing his throat and spitting on the stairs before he
                    entered my room. He had found out that we did not like the process to be carried on before us; and
                    after this preparation he was not often obliged to have recourse to it in our presence."79
            
            Assuming the attitdue of the critical investigator, we are obliged to say that this account is not
                    entirely free from flaws. For what tobacco-chewer ever had to clear his throat in order to spit on
                    the stairs?
            Of the hotels of 
                        Terre Haute
                    , at least to judge from an old illustration, one is still standing in the same
                    condition as in 1850. This is the one on the east side of South Third street, between Walnut and 
                        Ohio
                    , then known as the City hotel and later as Buntin's. In the 50s it was
                    perhaps the most important hotel in town, being the starting point of the stage coaches.80 The 
                        Prairie
                     House at Seventh and Main was, to judge from an illustration, a four-story building
                    with a flat, straight front. In 1850, as we have seen, it stood at a distance from the town. Its
                    location so far away, was no doubt due to the fact that Chauncey Rose, who had, in 1837, bought the
                    half section of land between Seventh and Thirteenth, wanted to draw the town in that direction.81 What sort of accommodations might be obtained here in 1851 is vividly
                    described in Mr. Beste's book:
            "Mr. Bunting, our fat landlord, dressed in the height of fashion, and with carving knife and
                    fork in hand, politely guided us to our places, and then took his own stand at the side-table, which
                    groaned under a profusion of apparently well-cooked joints. Our respectable-looking negro waiter was
                    in the room; and ten or a dozen lads (white) of ages varying from 12 to 15 years, and dressed in
                    white jackets, but without shoes or stockings, ran about the room, and tumbled over one another in
                    their eagerness, looking more like school-boys playing at leap-frog than like waiters at a
                    worshipful dinner table. Immediately one of the smallest of the boys sprang to me and exclaimed in
                    my ear, as fast as he could articulate the words: What will you take? Roast mutton, boiled beef,
                    roast lamb, veal 
                  
                     79 Beste, The 
                                    Wabash
                                , II, 123.
                  
                     80 Of Clark's Hotel (First and 
                                Ohio
                            ) the lower story is still standing, and now is used as a blacksmith shop.
                  
                     81 He had built the hotel soon after the purchase. After a years
                            trial, however, It was obliged to stand vacant for eight years, and was not opened again
                            till 1849. Condit, History of Early 
                                    Terre Haute
                                , 75. An account of its reopening is found in the 
                                Wabash
                            
                            Courier, May 12, '49.
               
                     pie, chicken pie, roast fowls or pigeons? I made my selection
                    out of the few of the words of his gabble that I could then understand and he fetched me something
                    as different as possible from that which I had asked for."82
            
            "There was a chambermaid, who, without assistance, made all the beds in the house, and did
                    all the work of a chambermaid; she was a Dutchwoman and went about the house without shoes or
                    stockings. One woman was kept to make all the pastry, pancakes, etc., and another to wash the dishes
                    and cups and saucers. One constant laundress was kept; and on washing days two others were hired to
                    help her. All these, except Mrs. Bunting's own maid, were barefooted. Then here was
                    Anthony, the black cook, the black steward who had charge of the six waiter boys, an Irishman whose
                    only work seemed to be sleeping in the bar and taking charge of the ice, and answering with rudeness
                    when spoken to, and another Irishman, who had to bring wood into the kitchen."83
            
            "Every other day when they took the inventory of the hotel plate, a dirty waiterboy rapped
                    at my door and popped his head in, exclaiming: 'Got any spoons?' and if the
                    amount was not easily found below he would venture again and again with the same demand, insisting
                    that we must have two or one, or whatever was the number missing. I never succeeded in catching this
                    little blackguard by the ear, though I often tried to do so and a regular war on the subject of
                    these spoons was established between US."84
            
            What did the people of 
                        Terre Haute
                     think and talk about, and how did they behave and amuse themselves in 1850? This has
                    been partly answered already, for they think and talk largely about what they see and hear from day
                    to day, and what comes in the way of their business. The highest culture of the people, if we may
                    call it so, was essentially southern. Nearly all of 
                        Terre Haute
                    's early commercial dealings and a large number of her people had come from
                    there. In a general way this crops out at many points. For instance, we read a little piece in the
                    paper about the etiquette of the umbrella:
            "If you meet a lady in the rain without an umbrella, you should not give her yours, but
                    escort her home. If you meet two, give them your umbrella, but let them go alone. This holds whether
                    you know them or not."
            "Christmas Day," we read in another place, "passed off very agreeable. The
                    weather was fine, enabling all to go out who felt inclined. Some went to church and some took
                    eggnog. 
                  
                     82 Beste, The 
                                    Wabash
                                , II, 3.
                  
                     83 Beste, The 
                                    Wabash
                                , II, 74.
                  
                     84Beste, The 
                                    Wabash
                                , II, 67.
               
                     Altogether, we believe it was a merry Christmas".85 Most characteristic are the ever-recurring editorials on spring.
            "Spring is coming, spring with her lap full of flowers and her lips ruddy with the enjoyment
                    of maple molasses; spring with warbling birds, frisking lambs and bawling calves; spring with her
                    swelling buds and verdant fields; spring which arouses the husbandman from his winter's
                    lethargy; spring which weakens the joints of the loafer; spring with the house-cleaning, scouring
                    and brushing. This veritable spring is coming, yea, is now here."86
            
            Sometimes the editor's exuberance carried him so far that he had to be called down by his
                    rival on the other paper, as in the following editorial, entitled "Sleighing:"
            "Mr. Ruggles of the Pavillion Stables had some fine teams. He drives them six-in-hand with
                    great skill. For several days during the snow Mr. Ruggles' big sleigh and six were seen
                    flying through our streets loaded with ladies and gentlemen. On Saturday last we were politely
                    invited to a seat with a dozen of the real some, and had a delightful time riding two miles out the
                    National road and back. It was capital, and the ease with which the six were turned, just at the
                    driver's will, was admirable." 87
            
            We do not know just what his rival said to this, but he must have said something, for one week later
                    the writer of the editorial on "Sleighing" had to take part of it back, while at
                    the same time countering handsomely at his apparent rival:
            "Well, we acknowledge the six-horse sleigh, but the editor of the Journal
                    was in first. We took him for Martin Van Buren with his whiskers shaved off, just starting on a Free
                    Soil expedition. But the gravity of Martin was soon lost in the frolic. The fact is we never saw a
                    day so brim full of sleigh-poetry. From the rocks of the Canal to Congress Corner it was all one
                    blaze of glory."
            Such was editorial amenity in 1850. Or was it all only a brave way of getting over a loss of dignity
                    brought upon them both alike by the redoubtable Mr. Ruggles?
            In more ways than one, 1850 was the end of one period and the beginning of another. The time when
                    gentlemen wore stocks and dickeys and strapped their pantaloons under their boots, when
                    "girls on skates would have been a phenomenon," when all men chewed fine-cut and
                    the spittoon stood in the family pew, and where red-nosed deacons were not uncommon 
                  
                     85
                            Wabash Courier, April 21, '49.
                  
                     86
                            Wabash Courier, February 23, '50.
                  
                     87
                            Wabash Courier, December 28, '50.
               
                     was about to pass away. Quite naturally, in such a time of
                    breaking-up, some extremes of behavior were indulged in. Quite a stir was made at the time, among
                    other things, by a certain Miss Webber's advocacy of male attire for women. Female dress,
                    she said, had been invented by man as part of his tyranny. She advocated that trousers should be
                    worn by women till marriage and by widows till married again.88 This was
                    evidently an extreme form of the bloomer agitation, which filled the papers of the time. Mr. Beste,
                    surely our most incorruptible witness, says that he actually saw two women wearing bloomers on the
                    streets of 
                        New York
                    , but nowhere else. But with the help of his friend and physician, Dr. Read, he is able
                    to give us the following authentic account of the ravages of the epidemic in 
                        Terre Haute
                    .
            "Now It seems that the ladies of 
                        Terre Haute
                     were as anxious as any editor among them to see themselves in the new costume and to
                    decide whether it was as becoming as it was represented to be. About a score of them agreed to have
                    dresses made according to the new pattern; and these were privately sent to Mrs. Read's
                    house, that they might dress themselves there, and together judge of one another's
                    charms. The arrangements were made with much mystery. Mrs. Read was to give a party, but the
                    initiated ladies alone were to be invited. On no account was a pair of male trousers to be admitted.
            "The ladies met. Twenty pair of feet cased in the smallest possible shoes, attached to
                    twenty ankles decked in the finest possible silk stocking, peeped from under twenty pair of the
                    largest possible Turkish trousers; twenty parti-colored polkas, waistcoats and jackets, got in
                    twenty as small waists and as swelling busts as 
                        Terre Haute
                     could furnish. They were all in high glee, and pirouetted and turned one another about
                    admiringly, half regretting that they had so rigorously excluded anyone of the male sex. The door
                    opened and Dr. Read walked in. Twenty screams uprose from twenty blushing throats.
            " 'Ladies', said the doctor sententiously, 'It is
                    impossible that you should be judges in your own cause. Surely gentlemen should be admitted to say
                    how the new dress affects them? The screams and pirouettes redoubled. The forty shoes, the forty
                    stockings, the twenty Turkish trousers, ran and skipped about the room–some hiding
                    themselves behind window curtains, some crouching behind sofas–till Mrs. Read kindly
                    pointed the way into her own room. They all betook themselves there and double-locked the door,
                    while the doctor came over to the hotel and told us what sport he had had." 89
            
            
               
                  88
                        Wabash Courier, Sept. 7, '50.
               
                  89 Beste, The 
                                Wabash
                            , II, 144ff.
            
            
            In spite of such temporary aberrations, however, life in 
                        Terre Haute
                     must on the whole have been eminently proper. In the winter of 1850-51 it was thought
                    worth recording that a new species of entertainment was coming in, that of "happening
                    in," which was beginning to supersede the old-fashioned parties.90 Such
                    parties as we read of were extreme in their innocence. One occurred, for instance, at Judge S. B.
                    Gookins' place on Strawberry Hill.91 This was far outside of town at
                    the time, so that when the judge moved there he had been obliged to resign his seat in the city
                    council. The party was for the Sunday school children of Mr. Jewett's church, together
                    with a number of "more adult folk." There were strawberries, ice cream and cake, a
                    promenade on the lawn, and music. The naughtiness came a little later, and, as the paper hints,
                    surreptitiously. "Perhaps," we read, "in the absence of Mrs. Gookins, and
                    after the stars arose, there may have been a little of the 'light fantastic
                    toe' on the grass. But all was retired and quiet by early bed-time."
            Of Mrs. Read and her family we have the following picture by the somewhat prejudiced daughters of the
                    English gentleman whom we have already referred to.
            "Mrs. Read was a very good sample of an American lady. She was very languishing, indolent
                    and affected in her way of speaking. She spent most of the day in her white dressing gown and
                    slippers. She spoilt her children dreadfully, and was often ashamed that we should see how little
                    they obeyed her. She was, however, well educated, and played the piano very well, and she was a
                    really kind-hearted, good-natured person, who meant to do everything for the best when she could
                    make up her mind to leave the sofa or the rocking chair, where she spent most of her time. Her
                    daughter was a clever girl. She, too, played and sang very well for her age, and she danced nicely.
                    In the more solid parts of her education her mother used to complain that she was sadly
                        wanting."92
            
            This picture is considerably relieved by the fact that another one of the English girls tell us that
                    Mrs. Read had to wash and mend all the clothes of the five children of her husband and of his
                    brother, who was visiting them.
            "These two, she said, insisted on having a clean shirt every day. Her help never assisted
                    her in anything except in ironing and in taking the entire charge of the kitchen."93
            
            
               
                  90
                        Wabash Courier, Feb. 1, '51.
               
                  91
                        Wabash Courier, May 31, '51.
               
                  92Beste, The 
                                Wabash
                            , II, 97.
               
                  93 Beste, The 
                                Wabash
                            , II, 98.
            
            
            Gum-chewing among the girls was already very common in 1850, and this naturally struck the English
                    girls quite as much as the habit of the men to sit with their chairs tilted back and their feet on
                    the window sill or the table. "All the young ladies at 
                        Terre Haute
                    ," one of them writes, "and, I suppose, all over America, chew
                    Burgundy pitch, as the gentlemen chew tobacco."94
            
            Crime was not common in 1850, to judge from what got into the local papers. We read of several
                    murders, but always out in the country or in adjoining counties. The worst that the papers offered
                    in town is suspected incendarism and, once, in 1849, the Wabash Courier has this
                    editorial:
            "We hear of some alarm about town on account of recent attempts to break into dwellings
                    after dark. It is very possible that some fooling is going on, which will lead to the death or
                    disgrace of some one. Firearms are prepared, and it may be well not to carry this matter of
                    housebreaking too far, just at this particular time."95
            
            The "matter" was really more serious than that, as appears from the fact that the
                    council offered a reward of $50 for the arrest and conviction of every offender.96
            
            As we have said, the old times were beginning to pass away. In 1851, two of the 
                        Terre Haute
                     papers, the Wabash Courier and the Express, started
                    daily editions.97 It was inevitable that the latter should soon consume most of
                    the editor's time, an'd the carefully selected clippings with all sorts of
                    odds and ends of information, which had filled the front page of the weekly edition, must soon have
                    largely disappeared. With them, no doubt, went the custom which the Courier, at
                    least, practiced consistently, and the Express at intervals, of publishing from
                    two to four poems in the first column of each issue. Instead of an isntitution and a friend, the
                    paper became a convenience, and, while subscriptions were then no doubt more promptly paid, it no
                    longer had a flavor about it which reminded you that there was a common standard of behavior which
                    did not need to be enforced.98
                    
                  
                     94 Beste, The 
                                    Wabash
                                , II, 92.
                  
                     95 Aug. 25.
                  
                     96 Council records in Oakey, Greater 
                                    Terre Haute
                                 and 
                                    Vigo County
                                , 116.
                  
                     97
                            Wabash Courier, Dec. 6, '51; Condit, History of
                                Early 
                                    Terre Haute
                                , 136.
                  
                     98 In the Wabash Courier for Jan. 8, '4 8
                            the terms of subscription are given as $2.00 a year if paid within three months
                            of the receipt of the first number, $2.50 if paid within the year, and
                            $3.00 if payment is delayed until the year expired.
               
                     Nor was it possible, in all probability, for the editor to
                    write and publish novels in his spare moments, as the editor of the Courier is
                    reported to have done, while he was in 
                        Terre Haute
                    ."
            The temper of the old regime is still seen undiluted in the following editorial on the
                    "telegraph," which had just reached 
                        Terre Haute
                    .100
            
            "The telegraph wires, as they pass through the glass of each pole discourse very pretty
                    music. We do not know that this music is resolvable into notes, but it is nevertheless very sweet.
                    On the 
                        Wabash
                     bridge particularly are these sounds remarkable. On a clear night the wires stretching
                    across give music closely resembling the Aeolian harp. What a splendid place for young lovers under
                    these wires, any time before midnight, with or without a bright moon."101
            
            That which most inevitably changed things in 
                        Terre Haute
                     was first, the opening of the 
                        Wabash
                     and Erie canal, to the north in 1849, and to 
                        Evansville
                     in 1852, and even more, the telegraph in 1850, and the opening of the railroads, east,
                    north, south and west, which followed in quick succession from 1852 on.102
            
            The first of these, the opening of the canal to the north, was naturally a time of some rejoicing.
                    The Wabash Courier of September 8, 1849, says that the water has been let into it
                    and has come to within a mile and a half of the city. In the issue of October 27 we read that boats
                    are now operating, two having started to load with corn at Otter creek, a few miles north. One of
                    the two first boats to reach town gave a crowd of people an excursion a mile and a half up the canal
                    and back, accompanied by a "band and music" from town. When they returned we are
                    told that they were greeted by the "roaring of cannon." At three
                    o'clock a fine dinner was given at the 
                        Prairie
                     House, to which the proprietors of the boat and the other excursionists were invited.
                    There were 
                  
                     99 The editor's name was Jesse Conard, and the novels were
                                Stephen Move-land and Mount Echo, Condit, History of Early 
                                    Terre Haute
                                , 135.
                  
                     100
                            Wabash Courier, Dec. 21, '50.
                  
                     101 The items of most constant interest in the papers of the time were
                            the newly discovered gold in 
                                California
                            , together with ways and means of getting there, the cholera epidemic, the trial
                            of Professor Webster in 
                                Boston
                             for the murder of Dr. Parkman, and the concert tour of Jenny Lind under the
                            management of P. T. Barnum.
                  
                     102 The first station in 
                                Terre Haute
                             was at Tenth and Main, where the Vandalia freight office is now.
               
                     addresses and toasts, and the boats both returned north on the
                    same day.
            There were several breaks in the canal soon after that, one of which delayed traffic for some time.
                    Low water also interfered with the movements of the boats, so that altogether it was not strange
                    that the railroads, with their greater speed and certainty and their direct time to the eastern
                    markets, soon made the canal unprofitable. Nevertheless, for a leisurely trip, there might have been
                    something to say for the canal boat. The arrival of the packet "
                        Ohio
                    ," Captain Davis, in May, 1850, was the occasion for the following in the Courier:
            
            "The 
                        Ohio
                     is a fine boat and has one of nature's noblemen for commander. Everything
                    appears to be in fine order on board, and the significant proportions of the captain strongly
                    indicate the good cheer of the pantry. A number of gentlemen had more satisfactory evidence on this
                    subject yesterday in the shape of an elegant dinner, to which they were invited, in the cabin. At
                    four o'clock the 
                        Ohio
                     took the party a few miles up the canal."103
            
            A description of one of the canal boats is given by Mr. Beste on the occasion of his departure from 
                        Terre Haute
                     in August, 1851:
            "The construction of the canal boat was–in miniature–much the same as
                    that of the lake and river steamers. There was no hold or under-deck, but on the deck, at the stern,
                    were raised the kitchen, steward's room and oflices. In the center of the boat was the
                    large saloon–the sitting room of all by day the sleeping-room of the male passengers by
                    night. Adjoining it was the ladies' saloon, beyond which again, was a small cabin
                    containing only four berths. This cabin was separated by a curtain from the ladies saloon, and on
                    the other side opened upon the bow of the vessel. In it was a looking glass, a hand basin, two
                    towels, a comb and a brush, for the use of the ladies."
            The starting of the boat is thus described:
            "At five o'clock in the afternoon, we stepped from the little quay at 
                        Terre Haute
                     on board the boat. Three horses were harnessed to a rope, about fifty yards ahead of
                    the boat. They started at a moderate trot, and the town where we had tarried so long was soon lost
                    to sight."104
            
            
               
                  103 May 25.
               
                  104 Aug. 12, '51.
            
            
            According to the map in the directory of 1858, the course of the canal through the city was as
                    follows: It entered from the north close to the river bank, at the eastern end of the present Big
                    Four bridge. From here it went straight south along the river bank, where part of its course can
                    still be followed, to the basin on Water street, just south of Eagle street. In its course it passed
                    through the west end of an old cemetery, just south of the Vandalia bridge, where a few badly broken
                    tombstones may still be seen. From the north end of the basin just mentioned it then went northeast
                    to a point near the corner of Third and Chestnut, then straight north, on the west side of Third
                    street, to Canal street, thence straight east, where the Vandalia tracks are at present. In front of
                    where the union station is now it curved around and went south between Ninth and Tenth streets to
                    Livan street, then southeast out of the city, toward Riley (then called Lock-port). The basin and
                    docks at 
                        Terre Haute
                     were said to be the finest on the whole canal, having steps leading down to the
                    landing, and a railing.105 Of all this only a few posts and beams in the ground
                    may now be seen near the river bank.
            
               
                  105
                        Wabash Courier, May 10, '51.
            
         
         
         
            Indiana In 1816
            By MERRILL MOORES, Member of Congress from the Seventh
                    District of Indiana
            TODAY we are here in response to the call of the greatest of our poets, uttered
                    years ago, but urgent today: 
                        "Le's go a-visitin' back to Grigsby's
                            Station–, Back where the latch-string's a-hangih' from the
                            door, And ever' neighbor round the place is dear as a relation–, Back
                            where we ust to be so happy and so pore.
                        Le's go a-visitin' back to Grigsby's Station–,
                            Back where there's nothin' aggervatin' any more. Shet away
                            safe in the woods around the old location–, Back where we ust to be so happy and
                            so pore
                        What's in all this grand life and high situation, And nary pink nor holly-hock
                            a-bloomin' at the door?, Le's go a-visitin' back to
                            Grigsby's Station–, Back where we ust to be so happy and so
                            pore."
                    
            
            Today the people of Indiana go a-visitin' back to Grigsby's Station and the
                    sovereign State sings with another, but not a greater, poet: 
                        "Dost thou look back on what hath been, As some divinely gifted man, Whose life in
                            low estate began, And on a simple village green:
                        Who breaks his birth's invidious bar, And grasps the skirts of happy chance, And
                            breasts the blows of circumstance, And grapples with his evil star:
                        Who makes by force his merit known, And lives to clutch the golden keys, To mould a mighty
                            state's decrees, And shape the whisper of the throne:
                        And moving up from high to higher, Becomes on Fortune's crowning slope, The pillar
                            of a people's hope, The center of a world's desire."
                    
            
            
               
                  *An address delivered at the Corydon pageant, June 2.
            
            
            In becoming modesty, forgetful of what our State accomplished in a brief century of life, laying
                    aside all thought of what Indiana is today in the great sisterhood of States, let us reverently
                    approach the cradle of her babyhood, that we may do fitting honor to the pioneers, to whose labors
                    and the sufferings our three million citizens are indebted for what Indiana is today.
            Civilized Indiana was not conquered from the wilderness without bloodshed, in addition to toil and
                    privation. The first European settlement within its borders was effected by men of 
                        Norman
                     blood at 
                        Vincennes
                     early in the eighteenth century and about two centuries ago. Eighty years before the
                    constitutional convention met at 
                        Corydon
                    , on Palm Sunday, 1736, as we are told, the commandant at 
                        Vincennes
                     (a nephew of Louis Joliet, who, with Father Marquette, explored the 
                        Mississippi
                     in 1673) was, in company with his general, D'Artaguette, and his faithful
                    chaplain, Father Senat, missionary priest at 
                        Vincennes
                    , burned at the stake by hostile Chickasaws, who had raided the post.
            The story of Pontiac's conspiracy and war tells of fierce fighting in and across the
                    Indiana territory as long ago as 1763. A party of Indians, under an English captain named Henry
                    Bird, guided by the renegade, Simon Girty, in 1780, crossed Indiana, and raided the 
                        Kentucky
                     settlements along the Licking, killing and scalping every white hunter and trapper
                    encountered. One need only recall the massacres from Lochry's Creek in 1780 and 
                        Vincennes
                     in 1785 to those at Pigeon Roost and around Vallonia in 1812; Clark's
                    expedition in 1786 and Wilkinson's later, the successive defeats of Josiah Harmar and
                    Arthur St. Clair, followed by 
                        Wayne
                    's victory in 1794, and the final conquest of the hostile Indians in the
                    battles of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to realize the risk of fortune and liberty and life taken by the pioneers of Indiana.
            In 1800 the census gave Indiana 5,506 people. In 1810 the population had grown to 24,000, divided
                    between four counties, Harrison, 3,595; 
                        Knox
                    , 7,945; Clark, 5,670, and Dearhorn, 7,310.
            In December, 1815, by a territorial census, the territory had grown so rapidly, since the cessation
                    of hostilities with  the Indians, that the population was only a
                    hundred short of 68,000; and of the thirteen counties, Harrison was fifth with 6,975.
            That the new State was growing with tremendous rapidity is shown by the fact tha.t in the next four
                    years the population more than doubled; it increased 116 per cent and became 146,988.
            The life of the Indiana pioneer cannot be better told than it has been in the verse of the greatest
                    of our poets, from whom I quote again: 
                        "And musing thus today, the pioneer, Whose brawny arm hath grubbed a pathway here,
                            Stands raptly with his vision backward turned, To where the log-heap of the past was burned,
                            And sees again as in some shadowy dream, Or sniffing, with his antlers lifted high, The wild
                            deer bending o'er the hidden stream, The gawky crane, as he comes trailing by,
                            And drops in shallow tides below to wade, On tilting legs, thro' dusky depths of
                            shade, While, just across, the glossy otter slips, Like some wet shadow 'neath
                            the ripples' tips, As drifting from the thicket-hid bayou, The wild duck paddles
                            past his rendevous."
                    
            
            In picturing the log cabin home of early times, the poet said: 
                        "And o'er the vision, like a mirage, falls, The old log cabin with its
                            dingy walls, And crippled chimney with the crutch-like prop, Beneath a sagging shoulder at
                            the top; The coon skin battened fast on either side; The wisps of leaf
                            tobacco–cut and dried; The yellow strands of quartered apples hung, In rich
                            festoons that tangle in among, The morning-glory vines that clamber o'er, The
                            little clapboard roof above the door; The old well sweep that drops a courtesy, To every
                            thirsty soul so graciously; The stranger, as he drains the dripping gourd, Intuitively
                            murmurs, "Thank the Lord."
                    
            
            
            The interior of the cabin was pictured with: 
                        Bough-filled fireplace and the mantel wide, Its fire-scorched ankles stretched on either
                            side, Where, perched upon its shoulders, 'neath the joist, The old clock
                            hiccoughed, harsh and husky-voiced; Tomatoes, red and yellow, in a row, Reserved not then
                            for diet, but for show, Like rare and precious jewels in the rough, Whose worth was not
                            appraised at half enough. The jars of jelly, with their dusty tops; The bunch of pennyroyal,
                            the cordial drops; The flask of camphor and the vial of squills; The box of buttons, garden
                            seeds and pills, And ending all the mantel's bric-a-brac, The old, time-honored
                            family almanac."
                    
            
            We are fortunate today to have before our eyes the massive building ih which met the men who laid the
                    strong foundations of our statehood, the Capitol Hotel, where many of them boarded during the brief
                    session of the convention, the elm tree to whose grateful shade they adjourned their session on the
                    hottest days, the houses where lived Governor Posey and other territorial officers, and others where
                    some of the members are still remembered to have boarded. Many of the great men of 1816 are passing
                    from our memory, but the solid masonry erected by the sturdiest of them all, Dennis Pennington,
                    still stands, let us hope, as a perpetual monument to them and their work.
            When the convention met the governor's mansion was occupied by a gallant soldier of the
                    American revolution, Colonel Thomas Posey, with whose handsome features we are all familiar from the
                    well-known portrait which adorns the State library at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Governor Posey was a Virginian who had fought in the battle of Point Pleasant, in Lord
                    Dunmore's war in 1774. As a captain of 
                        Virginia
                     continentals, he had assisted in the defeat of his old commander, the same Lord
                    Dunmore, at Gwynn's Island in 1776. His company was transferred to Morgan's
                    renowned rifle corps, and he served with distinction and great gallantry at Pis-cataquay, Bemis
                    Heights, Stillwater, Stony Point and at 
                        Yorktown
                    . He had served in Indian campaigns under Anthony Wayne, in 
                        Georgia
                    , and, in the Northwest Territory,  had been
                    lieutenant-goveror of 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        United States
                     senator from 
                        Louisiana
                    , and was governor of Indiana Territory from 1812 to 1816, succeeding in that office
                    three other eminent soldiers, Arthur St. Clair (of the Northwest Territory), William Henry Harrison
                    and John Gibson.
            The secretary of the territory was, and for sixteen years had been, John Gibson, a man of rare force,
                    character and judgment. A college-bred men, he was taken prisoner in an expedition against the
                    Indians before Lord Dunmore's war and was saved from the stake in the same manner that
                    Pocahontas saved the gallant 
                        Virginia
                     captain. He later married a sister of Logan, the celebrated Indian chief and orator;
                    and it was our John Gibson who heard and reported the famous speech of Logan, which every school boy
                    will remember, made after his entire family had been massacred by drunken whites: "There
                    runs not a drop of my blood in the veins of any living creature. Logan never felt fear. He will not
                    turn on his heel to save his life. Who is there to mourn for Logan? Not one." Gibson had
                    been with Lord Dunmore and Colonel Posey at Point Pleasant in 1774 and, like Posey, had commanded a
                    regiment during the revolution.
            Thomas Randolph had been attorney general, but was killed in action in the battle of 
                        Tippecanoe
                     and the office had not been filled. He was a Virginian, a descendant of Pocahontas, a
                    gentleman of education, cultivation and refinement. His wife was a daughter of General Arthur St.
                    Clair.
            Davis Floyd was auditor of public accounts, a Virginian who had served in the Revolution, and had
                    been imprisoned for a brief period for association with Aaron Burr, for whom he had procured in 1805
                    a territorial charter for a water power company at the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    . Henry Vanderburgh, one of the justices of the Supreme Court, had served as a soldier
                    in the Revolution, as had the fathers of John De Pauw, Robert A. New, William and Charles Polke,
                    Joseph Holman, John Dumont, Benjamin Chambers, the Beggs brothers, Samuel Merrill, and many others
                    active in the organization of the new State.
            The convention met here in 
                        Corydon
                    , June 10, 1816, consisting of forty-three members chosen from the thirteen organized
                    counties. The members were magnificently representative  of the
                    Indiana pioneers. Nearly all of them seem to us astonishingly young; but it requires youth to supply
                    the strength, vigor and ambition needed to conquer a wilderness. Among them were many destined to
                    future greatness, Jonathan Jennings, William Hendricks, Benjamin Parke, William Polke, James Noble,
                    Robert Hanna and D. H. Maxwell. And no less eminent was to be the modest squire, John Tipton, who
                    was to be chosen the first sheriff of Harrison county under the new constitution and to be a great
                    leader in the Senate of the 
                        United States
                     from middle life clear down to its end.
            Members of the convention, like the pioneers they represented, came from all the original colonies
                    north and south, as well as from 
                  England, Wales, Scotland
                and 
                        Ireland
                    , and from French, Flemish, German and Indian ancestors. Many were college-bred, but
                    most of them could write only their names. They had inherited widely diverse traditions and beliefs
                    as to political and religious matters, but they stood unitedly for education, religious freedom,
                    and, almost as one man, against slavery.
            It was a Frenchman from 
                        Vincennes
                    , and, I think, a Catholic, who, as chairman of the committee on a bill of rights,
                    reported this provision, which was unanimously incorporated :
            "All men have a natural and indefea sable right to worship Almighty God according to the
                    dictates of their own consciences. No man shall be compelled to attend, erect or support any place
                    of worship, or to maintain any ministry against his consent. No human authority ought in any case
                    whatever to control or interfere with the rights of conscience. No preference shall ever be given by
                    law to any religious societies or modes of worship, and no religious test shall be required as a
                    qualification to any office of trust or profit."1
            
            The same Frenchman, as a member of the committee on education, consisting, beside himself, of a
                    future judge (James Scott) of the Supreme Court of college training, and three members,2 whose letters still in existence prove that they could neither spell
                    conventionally nor express themselves grammatically, reported the following provision, also
                    unanimously adopted:
            
               
                  1 John Badollet, referred to here, was a native of 
                            Geneva
                        , son of a Lutheran minister.–ED.
               
                  2 William Polke, Dan Lynn, John Boone.
            
            
            "Knowledge and learning generally diffused through a community, being essential to the
                    preservation of a free government, and spreading the opportunities and advantages of education
                    through the various parts of the country being highly conducive to this end, it shall be the duty of
                    the General Assembly to provide by law, for the improvement of such lands as are or hereafter may be
                    granted by the 
                        United States
                     to this State, for the use of schools, and to apply any funds which may be raised from
                    such lands, or from any other quarter, to the accomplishment of the grand object for which they are
                    or may be intended. But no lands granted for the use of schools, shall be sold by the authority of
                    this State, prior to the year 1820, and the monies which may be raised out of the sale of any such
                    lands, or otherwise obtained, for the purpose aforesaid, shall be and remain a fund, for the
                    exclusive purpose of promoting the interest of literature and the sciences, and for the support of
                    seminaries and public schools. The General Assembly shall, from time to time, pass such laws as
                    shall be calculated to encourage intellectual, scientiflcal and agricultural improvement, by
                    allowing rewards and immunities for the promotion and improvement of arts, sciences, commerce,
                    manufacturers, and natural history, and to countenance and encourage the principles of humanity,
                    honesty, industry and morality."
            Notwithstanding the fact that human slavery had been permitted in the territory and that slaves were
                    recognized as property by territorial law, and the further fact that most of the members of the
                    convention had emigrated from slave states, the convention, without even the formality of a vote,
                    put this provision in the constitution:
            "There shall be neither slavery nor involuntary servitude in this state, otherwise than for
                    the punishment of crimes, whereof the party shall have been duly convicted. Nor shall any indenture
                    of any negro or mulatto hereafter made and executed out of the bounds of this state be of any
                    validity within the state."
            The convention was in session three weeks and did not sit on Sunday. In that time its members builded
                    for us a constitution in my opinion in many respects better than the one we have today.
            Its members met here in 
                        Corydon
                     in this noble building, and on hot days under the spreading elm we know and love so
                    well. Let us in grateful reverence thank God for their labors.
            It takes but little imagination to fancy we can see presiding in that hall today the courteous and
                    suave Jonathan Jennings, beside the no less accomplished secretary, William  Hendricks, and about them gathered the learned and ambitious Isaac
                        Blackford3 so recently from 
                        Princeton
                    ; sturdy, honest, and strenuous Dennis Pennington, backed by the nephew of Daniel Boone,
                    the Irish Patrick Shields, progenitor of famous men, the shrewd and crafty Davis Floyd and the
                    capable [Daniel C] Lane. I see Frederick Rapp from 
                        New Harmony
                     dreaming of a social millennium. And I see the Polke brothers, representing different
                    counties [Perry and 
                        Knox
                    ], politicians and fighters, cousins of one then living who was to become President
                    [James K. Polk]; a cousin who was to succeed, in that high office, the great soldier who had for
                    twelve years been governor of the territory and was himseli to be grandfather of another President
                    yet unborn, whom we knew and whose memory we delight to honor.
            I like to think that in that month of June a hundred years ago Thomas Lincoln came across the river
                    from Hodgenville with his seven-year-old boy looking for better land in Indiana and, stopping with
                    his brother Joseph on Big Blue river in 
                        Harrison county
                    , brought the slim, big-eyed boy to get, in 
                        Corydon
                    , his first glimpse of statesmanship and to go home to tell the loved Nancy and little
                    Sarah of the promised land beyond the beautiful river, where, in the county named for the gallant
                    captain [Spier Spencer] of the Yellow Jackets, they had chosen their future home.
            I can see, too, the man [John Tipton] who succeeded at 
                        Spencer
                    's death to the command of Corydon's Yellow Jackets, a hero of 
                        Tippecanoe
                    , turned modest magistrate the same year, but who led the Yellow Jackets again at the
                    battle of 
                        Tipton
                    's Island in 1813. I see him crossing the street to the courthouse to talk
                    with Floyd, Pennington and 
                        Boone
                     about his candidacy for sheriff, and, as I look, the picture fades, and I see the
                    founder of 
                        Logansport
                     and the locator of 
                        Indianapolis
                     standing in the Senate of the 
                        United States
                    , as he did on February 5, 1836, and I can almost hear what he is saying:
            "I do not -wish to be considered an alarmist: my fears have not been operated upon by the
                    rumors of war so frequently heard. I do not expect to raise recruits in time to terminate the war
                    now raging between us and the Seminole Indians, nor am I influenced in the course I have taken by
                        
                  
                     3
                            
                                Blackford
                             was not a member. The speaker must have had Benjamin Parke in mind.
               
                     anything that has been said here or elsewhere on the subject of
                    any other war; but purely by a desire to put our peace establishment upon a respectable footing, and
                    to prevent the recurrence of these conflicts with the Indians on our borders.
            I am unable to see any just cause for war, unless it arise from unfortunate collisions, which will
                    occasionally occur. I am convinced that the sure way to prevent war is to fie well prepared for it. I am aware that the people of this country look with a
                    jealous eye upon every step taken to augment our military force. The people, when rightly informed,
                    will do what is right. The army is their army; the money to support it is theirs; the government is
                    theirs; and I feel assured that they desire to see the army sufficiently numerous to answer all the
                    purposes for which it was created."
            The next paragraph of his speech reads like a report made yesterday by the Secretary of War to our
                    Senate.
            "It is shown by these statements that, in the Eastern Department, on the lakes and along the
                    seaboard, there are 33 military posts, 14 of which are now without troops to garrison them, and of
                    course liable very soon to go to destruction.
            In the Western Department there are 22 posts, 9 of them unoccupied by troops. The number of the rank
                    and file of our army is so small that it is impossible for the troops to occupy all the forts. The
                    companies, now consisting of about 50 men should be increased, so as to enable them to render all
                    the service required to be performed by an army.
            "The unsettled state of affairs in Mexico, and the actual war in 
                        Texas
                     will cause a restlveness among the Indian tribes in the southwest border of the 
                        United States
                    , which should not be unprovided for.
            "The presence of a respectable force at Forts Armstrong and Snelling, in 1831-2, would have
                    prevented the war (Blackhawk's) with the Soukees (Sacs), which cost us
                    $2,500,000; and a similar array of troops, if stationed at Fort King and Tampa, would
                    certainly have prevented the war now going on in 
                        Florida
                    –a war which will certainly end in the annihilation of the poor deluded
                    Seminoles."
            His words of warning fell on deaf ears. Would that today his ringing voice directing the way to
                    lasting peace might be again heard in the Senate speaking for Indiana.
            Richly indeed has this our old capital endowed the State with great men from among her sons. Much do
                    we owe to you, Corydon, our ancient civic center. Today, we bring you just tribute, bride of
                    Indiana's youth. I scorn to credit the tale so often told that an early governor named
                    you from a silly, sentimental, dolorous song. Rather would I believe that in the golden days, when 
                        Spencer
                     was captain of the Yellow  Jackets, as well as
                    genial landlord of the tavern near where the courthouse was to be built in the, as yet, nameless
                    village, viewing with delight the fair prospect of hills green with pasture and valleys rich with
                    the promise of future production, in memory of the Faery Queen of the great poet, whose name he
                    bore, our captain named the rustic village for the simple shepherd, Corydon, who, unrequited, wooed
                    the fair shepherdess Pastorella; and, in his christening, consecrated the village forever to
                    innocence, simplicity and beauty.
            Fair Corydon, may another century's passing find you as simple, innocent, lovable and
                    homelike as we have found you this day.
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notes
            INDIANA PAGEANTS
            
            THE distinguishing feature of the Centennial Celebration in Indiana is the
                    pageant. The State Historical Commission employed a pageant master, William Chauncey Langdon, to
                    lead in this work. This pageant master has already written and directed the performance of pageants
                    at 
                        Bloomingtton
                     and Corydon. In the first instance the history of the town was joined with the
                    development of the State University to form the theme of the pageant. At Corydon most of the
                    episodes were based on the history of the town while it was the capital of the territory and State.
                    Dr. Charles D. Campbell, professor of Music in the State University, wrote the music for both these
                    pageants and directed the orchestra during its performance. Mr. Langdon and Dr. Campbell are now
                    preparing for the State pageant to be given at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Pageant was given June 6, 7 and 8. Donald Robertson was the pageant master, John L.
                    Verwire prepared the music and David Fuller was stage manager. The six episodes dealt with the
                    Indians, French, English, 
                        Wayne
                    's Campaign, War of 1812, the Indian Agency, and the Civil War.
            The 
                        Vincennes
                     pageant was presented May 19. The pageant writer was George S. Cottman, who chose from
                    the wealth of 
                        Vincennes
                     history the Indians, Founding of 
                        Vincennes
                    , its capture by Clark, and 
                        Vincennes
                     the capital, as the basis of his episodes.
            The Earlham Pageant at 
                        Richmond
                     was written by Walter Carleton Woodward, Edna Johnson and Mary H. Flanner. This pageant
                    celebrates the migration of the Quakers to the Whitewater Valley, the establishment of. Earlham
                    College and the development of their society in Indiana.
         
         
         
            
               History of Indiana. By DR. JAMES ALBERT WOODBURN, Professor of American History in Indiana and
                    Dr. Thomas F. Moran, Professor of History in Purdue. Longmans, Green & Co., 1916; pp. 63.
            IN this brief pamphlet Professors Woodburn and Moran have brought together a
                    short, pointed discussion of the leading topics in the State's history. It is intended as
                    a manual for Indiana history work in the seventh and eighth grades. Most of the teachers of Indiana
                    are acquainted with the authors' work, as teachers for over a quarter of a century, and
                    they do not have to be told of their abilities either as scholars or writers. The pamphlet is
                    illustrated and otherwise made attractive to young readers. It will be found a very useful little
                    book in the hands of both teachers and pupils in our schools.
         
         
            
               The Great Revival in the West 1797-1805. By CATHARINE CLEVELAND. The University of 
                        Chicago
                     Press, 
                        Chicago
                    , pp. 215. Price $1.00.
            THIS is a doctoral dissertation written under the direction of Profs. J. F.
                    Jamison and William E. Dodd in the History Seminar of 
                        Chicago
                     University. The subject is one of the most attractive in the whole field of historical
                    study in the Ohio valley. It is infinitely more important to account for the
                    moral development of a community than its economical. It is a relief to find a piece of historical
                    research that is not concerned entirely with economic conditions. The general field of Miss
                    Cleveland's investigation is the settlements in 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                     from 1797 to 1805. The people are the Scotch-Irish who had come to America about half a
                    century earlier, had crowded to the foothills of the Alleghanies where they had remained during the
                    Revolution. After that event they had spent some twenty-five years crossing over and establishing
                    themselves in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Into this frontier community came a number of powerful preachers belonging to the
                    Presbyterian, Methodist and Baptist churches. For lack of church buildings they were compelled to
                    hold their services in the grove and so began the famous camp-meetings. The revival which began
                    about 1800 lasted with varying intensity  for about five years.
                    The history of this revival is the subject of Miss Cleveland's thesis. A list of the
                    chapter heads will give the reader a better idea of the method of treatment. They are (1) The
                    Religious Condition of the West Prior to 1800; (2) The Revival Leaders; Their Teachings and Methods;
                    (3) The Spread of the Revival and its Culmination; (4) Phenomena of the Revival; (5) Results of the
                    Revival. The appendices contain about thirty pages of documentary material. An excellent ten-page
                    bibliography follows. The study is based on primary sources. The writing is clear, concrete and
                    simple. The story is so interesting that it is only necessary to tell it in the simplest way. It is
                    a neat little volume which can be read after dinner.
         
         
            
               Historic Indiana; Centennial Edition Revised and Enlarged; Illustrated. By JULIA HENDERSON LEVERING. G. P.
                    Putnam's Sons, 
                        New York
                    , 1916 pp. 565. Price $2.25.
            THIS book has been on the market since 1909 and its continued popularity indicates
                    its approval by the public. It is a most difficult book to review. It is neither history, historical
                    romance, nor yet literature in the narrow sense of that term, but a well written entertaining,
                    gossipy (in the good sense of the word) discussion of our State and the Hoosier folks. It is neither
                    critical nor unduly laudatory of our achievements. Very few of the facts of our history are given
                    but the larger movements and tendencies are pointed out and discussed with an accuracy that proves
                    the author has a good grip on the State's history. Perhaps the most accurate description
                    of HISTORIC INDIANA is to say it consists of twenty-two essays on as many phases of the
                    State's history. The following reference to page four concerning LaSalle will show how
                    far the book wanders from scientific history: "The eminent historian Parkman tells us, that
                    by the loss of old records which have disappeared since 1756, we are deprived of the account of
                    LaSalle's movements during the two years following his departure from 
                        Canada
                     on the first mission of adventure. The memorandum that is preserved says that, after
                    leaving Lake Erie six or seven miles distant he finally came to a stream which proved to be a branch
                    of the river we call the 
                        Ohio
                    ; and that descending it for a long distance he joined  that river. Some have maintained that he went beyond the confluence of
                    the 
                        Ohio
                     with the 
                        Mississippi
                    . As the source of the 
                        Wabash
                     is near the west end of Lake Erie, a voyage down that river would naturally lead to the
                    discovery of the 
                        Ohio
                    . Doubtless, then, the 
                        Wabash
                     country was approached from Lake Erie and the Maumee river, as
                    this route was followed in later journeyings of the French. After crossing the broad lakes in their
                    slight boats and paddling up the Maumee to its source, they probably made a short portage of their
                    canoes and camp luggage to the headwaters of the 
                        Wabash
                     only a few miles distant."
            In the next sentence all this is taken for established fact and the author goes on in her lively
                    style to say, "No incident could appeal more to the imagination than this advent of those
                    birch-bark canoes, filled with the denizens of countries overseas, paddling down the
                    newly-discovered stream whose rippling waters had flowed for centuries through the vast forest all
                    undreamed of by white men."
            That is a beautiful sentence yet we do not know whether there was such an incident, whether there
                    were any birch bark canoes, nor whether they were filled by denizens of any country. We may presume
                    the "rippling waters", "vast forest" but whether "all
                    undreamed of by white men" is an open question. This is pointed out merely to show that the
                    volume is not to be tested by the rules of historical criticism. The passage quoted will also serve
                    to show the literary excellence of the book.
            Such chapters as "The Pioneers", "The Trail", "In the
                    Forties and Fifties", "Letters and Art in Indiana", "Education
                    in Indiana" are real literature. As a readable account of the development of our State, and
                    an appreciation of the State and its folks Mrs. Levering has given us perhaps the best that we have.
            L. E.
         
         
            
               History of Indiana. By OSCAR H. WILLIAMS,
                    Assistant Professor of Education in Indiana. D. C. Heath & Co., 1916; pp. 72.
            THIS is a brief history of the state for the use of schools devoting only a
                    limited amount of time to the subject. It was  written for the
                    seventh and eighth grades. Necessarily only the important topics in the subject are noticed. It is
                    divided into topics and each chapter has a list of suggestive questions and it is well illustrated.
                    Professor Williams is a teacher of experience and it goes without proof that the subject is well
                    handled in the brief space used. It should be found a most helpful little book for those teachers of
                    the State who want a brief manual of the State's history.
         
         
            THE
                    Memorial to the Pioneer Mother of Indiana is the title of a small, thirty page
                    pamphlet issued by a Ways and Means Committee of the Pioneer Mother Memorial Association and edited
                    by Miss Charity Dye of the Indiana Historical Commission. It consists of a number of sentiments
                    expressed by various Indiana authors. Its purpose is to aid in the collection of money to secure
                    some kind of memorial to the pioneer mothers of the State. For sale by the W. K. Stewart Co., 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Price 25 cents.
            THE
                    
                  
                            Minnesota
                         History Bulletin, May 1916, has a detailed description of the new 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society Building now in process of construction. The State of 
                        Minnesota
                     appropriated $500,000 for this building which, when completed, will hold
                    about 50,000 volumes. The Society paid $75,000 for the site. It is being built of granite
                    and marble and is to be dedicated to the pioneers of the State whose historical remains it will
                    house.
            THE
                    Liberty Express of June 15, 1916, is a Centennial number. It contains a number of
                    valuable historical articles by Ellis Searles treating of the schools, agriculture, politics,
                    statesmen, authors, transportation and various other phases of the State history. The edition is of
                    24 pages and printed in colors and interestingly illustrated.
            THE
                    Commonwealth Review of the University of 
                            Oregon
                        , the second number of which was issued by the University, April, 1916, is a
                    quarterly devoted to the discussion of State government and politics. It is non-political and most
                    of its articles are written by State officers and members of the  faculties of colleges. Several attempts at this kind of thing have been made in Indiana but all
                    have shipwrecked on politics. The general tone of the 
                        Oregon
                     quarterly is not polemic or propagandist, but explanatory and historical. F. G. Young
                    is editor.
            THE
                    
                  Mississippi Valley Historical Review for June 1916, has four
                    important articles. The first by Verner W. Crane is entitled, "The Tennessee
                        River as the Road to Carolina". This is a study of early explorations and
                    fur trade. The second article entitled "
                        Virginia
                     and the West; An Interpretation", is by Professor C. W. Alvord; the third is a
                    discussion of the history of agriculture as a field of study. This is by Louis B. Schmidt. The
                    fourth and most valuable for workers in the field of history is "Historical Activities in
                    the Old Northwest" by Arthur C. Cole.
            THE
                    Quarterly of the 
                            Oregon
                         Historical Society for March 1916, has a valuable study of the Indians as they
                    were when the explorers first found them. The writer, Mr. 0. B. Sperlin, has examined over one
                    hundred records of the first visits of white men to Indian tribes. His conclusion is quite favorable
                    to the Indians. Another article is by Harrison C. Dale, in which he maintains that the noted scout
                    Ramsay Crooks discovered the South Pass long before John C. Fremont did.
         
      
   
