
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 24, Issue 1, pages 1-56. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:24+issue:1+year:1928&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            
               
                        Lincoln
                     In 
                        Indianapolis
                    
            
            GEORGE S. COTTMAN, 
                        Indianapolis
                    
            
            With the ever-increasing volume of literature about Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                     it would seem as if nothing further could be said except in the way
                    of repetition; nevertheless much new matter will doubtless be yet uncovered. For
                    example, an historical account of the great emancipator's presence in 
                        Indianapolis
                    —twice when living, once when dead—has never
                    been given with fulness or accuracy, and the tradition that exists reveals both
                    omissions and errors.
            1859
            As regards omissions, virtually no one now living knew until recently that
                    Lincoln had delivered a speech in the Hoosier capital prior to 1861. The fact
                    that he did was discovered some months since by Earl W. Wiley, and also,
                    independently, by Miss Olga Ruehl, of the Indiana State Library staff, when
                    examining the files of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Daily Atlas, a now forgotten newspaper. The date of the speech
                    was September 19, 1859; the place of delivery, the old Masonic Hall; the
                    occasion, an echo of the state campaign in 
                        Ohio
                    , where both 
                        Lincoln
                     and Stephen A. Douglas had been stumping as a sort of aftermath to
                    their famous joint debate of the year before. 
                        Lincoln
                    , on his way from 
                        Springfield
                     to 
                        Ohio
                    , passed  through 
                        Indianapolis
                    , as is shown by a fuller examination of the Atlas
                    files. That seems to have inspired the Republicans there to secure him; an
                    invitation followed him to 
                        Columbus
                    . It was, accepted, and a little later, when on his way homeward
                    from 
                        Cincinnati
                    , he gave the 
                        Indianapolis
                     address by way of good measure, as it were. It is somewhat curious
                    that this visit and speech should have dropped wholly out of sight, until last
                    year, no historian or biographer, so far as I can find, making any mention of
                    it. The address was not reprinted verbatim, but reported in
                    the form of a running account and even in that condensed form occupies three
                        columns.1
            
            1861
            It is well known to all 
                        Lincoln
                     students that Indianapolis was included in the itinerary of the
                    president-elect in his journey from 
                        Springfield
                     to 
                        Washington
                    , preceding his inauguration in 1861. In the 
                        Indiana city
                     the event is commemorated by a bronze tablet set in the wall of the
                    Claypool Hotel, just beneath the spot where he spoke from the balcony of the old
                    Bates House, the predecessor of the Claypool. Confusion has arisen from the fact
                    that the distinguished guest made two 
                        Indianapolis
                     speeches during that visit, though in some accounts he is credited
                    with but one. It happens that the quotation on the tablet mentioned is from Iris
                    first remarks, delivered in another place, while the Bates House speech, now
                    almost forgotten, was the one that created all the newspaper comment at the
                    time. Had those who sponsored the tablet and those who have written about it
                    taken the pains carefully to examine the contemporary newspaper files of the
                    city they could have ascertained what was done and where. This article is an
                    attempt at such a study of the contemporaneous evidence.
            To appreciate fully the brief and restrained utterances of 
                        Lincoln
                     during that memorable journey from 
                        Springfield
                     to 
                        Washington
                     one must consider the situation. Prior to that he had taken part as
                    a statesman in the questions of the day— 
                  
                     1 This has been spoken of as a "lost
                            speech" of 
                                Lincoln
                            's in the newspaper notices following the
                            discovery. A comparative study shows that in large part it was a
                            repetition of the ideas expressed in preceding addresses in 
                                Ohio
                             at 
                                Columbus
                             and 
                                Cincinnati
                            , though the Atlas account has in it
                            matter not to be found in those speeches. It has recently been published
                            in Earl W. Wiley, Four Speeches by Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                
                      (
                        Columbus, Ohio
                     , 1927).
               
                     questions that under the stress of political
                    passions had grown so acute as to threaten to disintegrate the nation. Then with
                    his election to the presidency in the fall of 1860 his position in the maelstrom
                    suddenly became that of supreme leader for weal or woe. Nothing was to be
                    expected of his predecessor, who still held the helm, but who was simply swamped
                    by the magnitude of affairs, and so the eyes of the country were turned on the
                    president-elect, noting his every act and word. He had already given evidence of
                    statesmanship, at least in a theoretical way, but in the role that lay before
                    him with its untried ways he was an unknown quantity, as any other man would
                    have been. What were his views on these questions that were racking the country?
                    How would he meet them? What qualities would he show? Of all 
                        Lincoln
                    's traits none was more marked than his sense of
                    responsibility. Aside from the propriety of reserve while his predecessor was
                    still in office it would be very easy for him to make a mistake, especially as a
                    hostile press lay ready to pounce upon his every word and act. Hence in the
                    series of talks when on his way to take the presidential seat he always spoke
                    cautiously, and repeatedly said in so many words that he did not wish to speak
                    prematurely. The 
                        Indianapolis
                     speeches, which were his first utterances worthy of note after
                    leaving 
                        Springfield
                    , were of this character.2
            
            The 
                        Lincoln
                     special train was scheduled to reach Indian- 
                  
                            2. Since writing the above I have found in the 
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                News of February 12, 1897, an anonymous article
                                describing the 
                                    Lincoln
                                 visit of 1861. The writer, seemingly, drew upon
                                personal recollections as well as from records, and the article has
                                the ring of authenticity. It has in it some information additional
                                to that above set forth, which is here appended.
                            "During the latter part of January, 1861, the Indiana
                                legislature passed a joint resolution appointing a committee
                                composed of Senators George K. Steele, of Parke; Walter March, of 
                                    Delaware
                                ; J. D. Conner, of 
                                    Wabash
                                ; Aaron B. Line, of 
                                    Franklin
                                , and Allen 
                                    Hamilton
                                , of Allen; Representatives David C. Branham, of
                                Jefferson; David M, Jones, of 
                                    Vermillion
                                ; James C. Veach, of 
                                    Spencer
                                ; R. A. Cameron, of Porter; John A. Hendricks, of
                                Jefferson; J. H. Stotsenberg, of Floyd, and M. A. O. Packard, to
                                invite Mr. Lincoln to become a guest of the state on his way to 
                                    Washington
                                . Mr. Lincoln accepted the invitation and named February
                                11 as the day on which the committee could meet him at
                                Indiana's boundary line and escort him to the city as it
                                desired."
                            On February 4 a public meeting of citizens was held at the old court
                                house and appointed a committee to represent 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 and cooperate with the state authorities in the
                                reception. This committee consisted of Mayor Samuel B. Maxwell, A.
                                H. Conner, James Blake, A. H. Davidson, Jacob Vandegrift, Dr, J. S.
                                Bobbs and William Wallace.
                            At the state line the 
                                    Lincoln
                                 train "was greeted by thousands of people from
                                Indiana and 
                                    Illinois
                                , who had assembled in the open prairie, with cheers and
                                waving of flags, hats and handkerchiefs." General Steele,
                                the chairman of the joint legislative committee made a speech of
                                welcome; Mr. Lincoln replied, and the trains moved on amidst shouts
                                and the waving of flags, and other demonstrations. All along the way
                                from 
                                    Springfield
                                 to 
                                    Indianapolis
                                 the crowds were gathered to greet and if possible, to
                                hear a few words from the man of the hour.
                        
               
                     apolis by way of 
                        Lafayette
                     at 5 P.M., February 11, and a committee of prominent citizens were
                    delegated to meet it at the 
                        Illinois
                     state line as a preliminary welcome. There was much interest in the
                    event, and all day long the city was crowded with people, many of whom, says one
                    newspaper, had come "fully fifty miles in wagons, in carriages and on
                    horseback." It was said to have been the greatest gathering ever in the
                    city up to that time. For some reason the point of debarkation was fixed, not at
                    the Union Depot, but at the intersection of West 
                        Washington
                     and 
                        Missouri
                     Streets, where the 
                        Lafayette
                     track crosses 
                        Washington
                    . Here, as the time of arrival approached, was a crowd that jammed
                    the streets and filled all available windows, house-tops and even telegraph
                    poles. There were also segregated the elements for a grand parade—
                    carriages, two brass bands, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     National Guards, the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Zouaves and other organizations. Governor Oliver P. Morton, in a
                    barouche to which was attached a matched team of four beautiful white hourses
                    decorated with plumes and flags, was stationed at the crossing ready to receive
                    the president-elect with a speech of welcome. Others in attendance were state,
                    county and city officials, members of the legislature, visiting committees from
                    the legislatures of 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    , and municipal officers from 
                        Columbus
                     and 
                        Cincinnati
                    .
            Promptly at five o'clock the special arrived, stopping with its rear end
                    at the crossing, and Mr. Lincoln at once appeared upon the rear platform.
                    Governor Morton then arose and, standing in his barouche, spoke as follows:
                        
                        SIR:—In behalf of the people of Indiana I bid you welcome.
                            They avail themselves of this occasion to offer their tribute of high
                            respect to your character as a man and a statesman, and your person to
                            honor the high office to which you have been elected.
                        In every free government there will be differences of opinion, and these
                            differences result in the formation of parties; but when the voice of
                            the people has been expressed through the forms of the Constitution all
                            patriots yield to it obedience. Submission to the popular will is the
                            essential principle of republican government, and so vital is this
                            principle that it admits of but one exception, which is, revolution. To
                            weaken it is anarchy; to destroy it is despotism. It recognizes no
                            appeal beyond the ballot box, and while it is preserved Liberty may be
                            wounded but never slain. To this principle the people of Indiana, men of
                            all  parties, are loyal, and they here
                            welcome you as the chief magistrate-elect of the republic.
                        When our fathers framed the Constitution they declared it was to form a
                            more perfect union, establish justice and secure the blessings of
                            liberty to themselves and their posterity, and for these considerations
                            we proclaim our purpose to maintain that Constitution inviolate as it
                            came from their hands.
                        The Union has been the idol of our hopes, the parent of our prosperity,
                            our shield of protection abroad, and our title to the respect and
                            consideration of the world. May it be preserved, is the prayer of every
                            patriotic heart in Indiana, and that it shall be, the determination. You
                            are about to enter upon your official duties under circumstances at once
                            novel and full of difficulty, and it will be the duty of all good
                            citizens, without distinction of party, to yield a cordial and earnest
                            support to every measure of your administration calculated to maintain
                            the Union, promote the national prosperity, and restore peace to our
                            distracted and unhappy country. Our government which but yesterday stood
                            for the admiration of the world, is today threatening to crumble into
                            ruins, and it remains to be seen whether it possesses a living
                            principle, or whether, in the fulness of time, the hour of its
                            dissolution is at hand.
                        But we are full of confidence that the end is not yet—that the
                            precious inheritance from our fathers will not elude our grasp or be
                            wrested from us without a struggle—that we are but passing
                            through one of those civil commotions that mark the history of every
                            great nation, and that we shall emerge from the present gloom into the
                            bright sunshine of peace and fraternity, and march forward with
                            accelerated speed in the paths of prosperity and power.
                    
            
            This was not merely an address of welcome. On the contrary it may be said that
                    Morton somewhat strained the occasion by introducing the politics of the hour,
                    and he obviously sent out a feeler designed to challenge 
                        Lincoln
                    's reticence. The response was hardly what was expected,
                    being in its nature deep beyond popular anticipation. 
                        Lincoln
                     met the challenge, yet committed himself to nothing, and he placed
                    the question raised by Morton squarely where it belonged. The vital principles
                    underlying the Union represented something deep-rooted in the character of the
                    American people, and action concerning it must have its origin in that source.
                    It was for the people to recognize that, and not to depend too much on any
                    leader with his possible fallacies. It is worthy of comment that the editors of
                    the day seemingly failed to appreciate the note he struck, for there was very
                    little or nothing said about it, though today it ranks among 
                        Lincoln
                    's better-known 
                    speeches. As to its effect on his audience, very few, according to the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel, were able to hear it, and the applause given him at
                    its end "was altogether on suspicion of what the sentiment might
                    be." The speech ran: 
                        GOVERNOR MORTON and FELLOW CITIZENS of the State of Indiana:—
                        Most heartily do I thank you for this magnificent reception, and while I
                            cannot take to myself any share of the compliment thus paid, more than
                            that which pertains to a mere instrument, an accidental instrument,
                            perhaps I should say, of a great cause, I yet must look upon it as a
                            most magnificent reception, and as such most heartily do thank you for
                            it. You have been pleased to address yourself to me chiefly in behalf of
                            this glorious Union in which we live, in all of which you have my hearty
                            sympathy, and, as far as may be within my power, will have, one and
                            inseparably, my hearty consideration. While I do not expect upon this
                            occasion, or until I get to 
                                Washington
                            , to attempt any lengthy speech, I will only say that to the
                            salvation of the Union there needs but one single thing—the
                            hearts of a people like yours. When the people rise in mass in behalf of
                            the Union and the liberties of this country, truly it may be said
                            "The gates of hell cannot prevail against them." In
                            all trying positions in which I shall be placed—and doubtless
                            I shall be placed in many such—my reliance will be placed
                            upon you and the people of the 
                                United States
                            ; and I wish you to remember, now and forever, that it is
                            your business and not mine; that if the Union of these states and the
                            liberties of this people shall be lost it is but little to any one man
                            of fifty-two years of age, but a great deal to the thirty millions of
                            people who inhabit these 
                                United States
                            , and to their posterity in all coming time. It is your
                            business to rise up and preserve the Union and liberty for yourselves,
                            and not for me.
                        I desire they should be constitutionally performed. I, as already
                            intimated, am but an accidental instrument, temporary, and to serve but
                            for a limited time; and I appeal to you again to constantly bear in mind
                            that with you, and not with politicians, not with presidents, not with
                            office-seekers, but with you is the question: Shall the, Union and shall
                            the liberties of this country be preserved to the latest
                        generations?
                    
            
            During these proceedings a cannon had been booming a salute of thirty-four
                    guns—one for each state in the Union. And now the guest of the city
                    and state was taken into the barouche, along with the governor and two or three
                    other notables. The four white horses attached to the vehicle made such a
                    handsome appearance that Mr. Lincoln complimented the driver, Elijah Hedges on
                    his team, little thinking that four years later these same horses, with the same
                    driver, would  draw him once more through the
                    streets of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , he then in his coffin. Carriages had been provided for the 
                        Lincoln
                     retinue, but the ill-mannered "local politicians"
                    took possession of some of them, in consequence of which about half of the
                    visiting party had to walk to the hotel, baggage in hand. Among these was Robert 
                        Lincoln
                    , the eldest son of the family, to whom had been entrusted a certain
                    black bag, which bag contained an article of unique value, and its adventures
                    introduced into the occasion an interesting episode which will be mentioned
                    later.
            Arrangements had been made for a grand street parade, to be led by the customary
                    brass band and the local military companies, and this, after some confusion, got
                    started, the line of march being eastward on 
                        Washington
                     Street to 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , thence to 
                        Ohio
                    , on 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                        Illinois
                    , and down 
                        Illinois
                     to the Bates House, the chief hostelry of the city. The crowd in
                    the streets about the hotel was so dense that the 
                        Lincoln
                     party could hardly get in. After the arrival of the chief celebrity
                    there was a clamorous demand for a speech, in response to which 
                        Lincoln
                     delivered his second address, from a balcony overlooking the street
                    corner.
            There are many discrepancies in the various statements about this speech. Nicolay
                    and Hay label it as one made before the Indiana legislature; 3 but 
                        Lincoln
                     did not visit our legislature, though his intention had been to do
                    so. Henry J. Raymond says it was given before members of the legislature who
                    waited upon him in a body at the hotel that evening and in response to an
                    address of welcome by their representative;4 but this is
                    wholly at variance with the contemporary press reports, the most reliable
                    documents we have in the case. The first speech, made from the rear of the
                    train, bears the internal evidence of being impromptu and called forth by
                    Morton's speech. Mr. Jesse Weik in his book on 
                        Lincoln
                    
               5 states that John Nicolay once showed him the
                    original manuscript of the Bates House speech (the second speech), which had
                    been prepared beforehand, and was marked "For 
                        Indianapolis
                    " in 
                        Lincoln
                    's 
                  
                     3 John G. Nicolay and John Hay (editors) in Complete Works of Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                
                     , Vol. VI, pp. 112—15 (
                                Gettysburg
                             Edition, 
                                New York
                            , 1905).
                  
                     4
                            Life and Public Services of Abraham 
                                    Lincoln
                                
                     , pp. 133—34 (
                                New York
                            , 1865).
                  
                     5
                            The Real 
                                    Lincoln
                                , a Portrait, pp. 312—13 (
                                Boston
                             and 
                                New York
                            , 1922).
               
                     own hand. On the other hand Charles Dennis, a
                    once well known 
                        Indianapolis
                     reporter, stated in a newspaper article some years ago, that Berry
                    Sulgrove, war-time editor of the Journal, had shown him
                    (Dennis) a manuscript of the balcony speech written in 
                        Lincoln
                    's hand, that had been given to Sulgrove for
                    copy—which illustrates the perplexities that sometimes accompany
                    historical investigation. It is certain that both the Journal
                    and the Sentinel secured both speeches some way, for they
                    appear verbatim in the two papers. The following is the
                    balcony speech: 
                        FELLOW-CITIZENS of the State of Indiana:—I am here to thank
                            you much for this magnificent welcome and still more for the generous
                            support given by your state to that political cause which I think is the
                            true and just cause of the whole country and the whole world.
                        Solomon says there is "a time to keep silence," and
                            when men wrangle by the mouth with no certainty that they mean the same
                            thing while using the same word, it perhaps were as well if they would
                            keep silence.
                        The words "coercion" and "invasion"
                            are much used in these days, and often with some temper and hot blood.
                            Let us make sure, if we can, that we do not misunderstand the meaning of
                            those who use them. Let us get exact definition of these words, not from
                            dictionaries but from the men themselves, who certainly deprecate the
                                things they would represent by the use of words.
                            What, then, is "Coercion"? What is
                            "Invasion"? Would the marching of an army into 
                                South Carolina
                             without the consent of her people, and with hostile intent
                            toward them be "invasion"? I certainly think it would;
                            and it would be "coercion" also if the South
                            Carolinians were forced to submit. But if the 
                                United States
                             should merely hold and re-take its own forts and other
                            property, and collect the duties on foreign importations, or even
                            withhold the mail from places where they were habitually violated, would
                            any or all of these things be "invasion" or
                            "coercion"? Do our professed lovers of the Union, but
                            who spitefully resolve that they will resist coercion and invasion,
                            understand that such things as these on the part of the 
                                United States
                             would be coercion or invasion of a state? If so, the idea
                            of means to preserve the object of their affection would seem
                            exceedingly thin and airy. If sick, the little pills of the
                            homeopathists would be much too large for it to swallow. In their view
                            the Union as a family relation would seem to be no regular marriage but
                            a sort of "free-love" arrangement, to be maintained
                            only on "passional attraction."
                        By the way, in what consists the special sacredness of a state? I speak
                            not of the position assigned to a state in the Union, by the
                            Constitution; for that, by the bond, we all recognize. That position,
                            however, a state cannot carry out of the Union with it. I speak of that
                            assumed primary right of a state to rule all which is less than itself,
                            and  ruin all which is larger than
                            itself. If a state and a county in a given case should equal in extent
                            of territory and equal in number of inhabitants, in what, as a matter of
                            principle, is the state better than the county? Would an exchange of
                            names be an exchange of rights upon principle? On what rightful
                            principle may a state, being not more than one-fiftieth part of the
                            nation and soil and population, break up the nation and then coerce a
                            proportionally larger subdivision of itself in the most arbitrary way?
                            What mysterious right to play tyrant is conferred on a district of
                            country with its people, by merely calling it a state?
                        Fellow-citizens, I am not asserting anything; I am merely asking
                            questions for you to consider. And now allow me to bid you farewell.
                    
            
            Of the two speeches here quoted, this last one, as already said, created far and
                    away the most press comment, for the reason that the questions of coercion and
                    invasion loomed large in the dissension that was splitting the nation, and the
                    people were especially sensitive to them. Guarded and tentative as 
                        Lincoln
                    's language was, the opposition papers pictured him as a
                    man ready to plunge the country into war. Of the many excerpts that might be
                    quoted the mildest was this from the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Sentinel: "We had hoped that Mr. Lincoln would
                    sympathize with the conservative element of his party, but we fear we are doomed
                    to be disappointed. When he attempts to govern the country his views will
                    probably undergo a change." The 
                        Louisville
                    
                    Journal comment later was that the speech was like
                    "sporting with fire-balls in a powder magazine."
            The story of the black traveling bag that had been entrusted to Robert 
                        Lincoln
                     comes in chronologically at this point. That bag contained Mr.
                    Lincoln's precious inaugural address, which had been written and
                    printed with the utmost secrecy at 
                        Springfield
                    . One can imagine the embarrassment to its author in case of its
                    loss. The little flurry caused by the carelessness of Master Robert, who did not
                    seem to be much burdened with a sense of responsibility, is thus described by
                    Miss Helen Nicolay in her Personal Traits of Abraham 
                            Lincoln
                        :
                    
                        When at last 
                                Lincoln
                             had time to think of the little black bag Robert was not to
                            be found. Feverish inquiries developed that he was off with
                            "the boys," and still more time elapsed before he
                            could be located and brought back. To his father's impetuous
                            questions he re-  plied with a bored
                            and injured virtue that having arrived in the confusion, with no room to
                            go to, he had handed the bag to the hotel clerk, after the usual manner
                            of travelers.
                        "And what did the clerk do with it"? his father asked.
                        "It is on the floor behind the counter," was the
                            complacent answer.
                        Visions of his inaugural in all the morning papers floated before the
                            president-elect as without a word he threw open his door and began
                            making his way through the crowded halls to the office. One single
                            stride of his long legs swung him across the clerk's desk, and
                            he fell upon the small mountain of luggage accumulated behind it. Taking
                            a little key from his pocket he began delving for black bags, and
                            opening such as the key would unlock, while bystanders craned their
                            necks, and the horrified clerk stood open-mouthed. The first half dozen
                            yielded an assortment of undesired and miscellaneous articles; then he
                            came upon his own, inviolate, and Robert had no more porter's
                            duty during the rest of the trip.
                    
            
            Miss Nicolay's authority for this colorful ancedote was, presumably, her
                    father, who was with 
                        Lincoln
                     as his secretary.
            The dinner at the Bates House that evening seems to have been in the nature of a
                    banquet, as Francis McLaughlin, of 
                        Portland
                    , now dead, used to tell with pride that he, as a guest, sat in
                    "the third place to the right of Mr. Lincoln." A feature after
                    the dinner was a grand public reception held on the second floor of the hotel
                    when uncounted numbers of people filed through and shook the hand of
                    "Honest Abe" until he was fairly worn out.
            The next morning—this, incidentally, was his fifty-second
                    birthday—Mr. Lincoln breakfasted with Governor Morton, whose house
                    stood on the site of the present traction terminal sheds, on Market Street, and
                    returned to the hotel, the Sentinel says, without making an
                    anticipated visit to the legislature. The crowd, still milling about the hotel,
                    demanded another speech, but 
                        Lincoln
                     excused himself and, instead, Solomon Meredith, of 
                        Wayne County
                    , introduced from the balcony the Reverend J. W. T. McMullen, who
                    made the address, and who, from his personal resemblance to 
                        Lincoln
                    , was mistaken by many for him.
            The 
                        Lincoln
                     party had some difficulty getting to the station by reason of the
                    demonstrative crowd. At 11 A.M. the special train pulled out amid the shouting
                    of the multitude, many persons even running down the track after the receding
                    cars. The train was decorated elaborately with flags and red,  white and blue bunting, with an image of the
                    American eagle amid flag draperies over the platform of the rear car. The
                    smokestack of the locomotive was encircled with thirty-four white stars on a
                    blue field, and on its front the engine bore pictures of all the presidents,
                    with George 
                        Washington
                     conspicuous. Flags, ribbons and evergreens gaily ornamented boiler,
                    framework and tender.
            A Democratic estimate of 
                        Lincoln
                     at that period sounds rather interesting as we read it now. It
                    appeared as an editorial in the Sentinel of February 12.
            
                    Mr. Lincoln is a theorist, a dreamer and, perhaps, an enthusiast in his
                        conviction. He is not a practical man, and for that reason will be deficient
                        in those qualities necessary to wisely administer the government. He lacks
                        will, purpose, that resolute determination necessary to success. For those
                        reasons Mr. Lincoln will be, an uncertain man and today, with a full
                        knowledge of his views on the present conditions of our public affairs, it
                        will be impossible to predict what his action will be. At a time when it
                        requires a man of nerve, will and purpose to administer the government
                        successfully, it is most unfortunate that the administration of our public
                        affairs should be confined to such hands.
                
            1865
            A melancholy sequel to this pre-presidential visit with its enthusiasm and
                    animation was the, coming of the assassinated 
                        Lincoln
                     in his coffin, to lie in state for one full day in the rotunda of
                    the Indiana capital. Four years had passed—four years packed with
                    history for the American people. The war was over. The leader of the nation had
                    made his immortal record, and now it was sealed and glorified for all time by
                    his sacrificial death. As states and cities, four years before, had requested
                    the. privilege of honoring the man in whom their hopes lay, so now they demanded
                    the opportunity to pay the final tribute to him who had fulfilled their hopes,
                    and so he went from 
                        Washington
                     back to 
                        Springfield
                     by much the same route as he had traveled from 
                        Springfield
                     to 
                        Washington
                    , the way now draped with the emblems of woe.
            Sunday, April 30, 1865, was a, unique day in the history of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . There have been other times when the city displayed the somber
                    hues of mourning, but on this occasion everything conspired to deepen the sense
                    of gloom which  spread like a pall over the
                    nation. For days before the coming of the funeral train the solemnity was fed by
                    preparations for the sad event. The principal streets were hung with sable
                    decorations, 
                        Washington
                     Street in particular, from East Street to the State House, being
                    literally shrouded in black, with arches, similarly draped, spanning 
                        Washington
                     at 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Illinois
                     Streets. Stores and public buildings generally made appropriate
                    displays, while the Capitol and its surroundings presented the most impressive
                    decorations of all. The fence about the grounds, a canopy spanning the south
                    approach, and the eight great pillars of the Capitol portico were festooned and
                    wrapped with black and white. The building within was converted into a
                    mausoleum. The entrances were hung with long, heavy black curtains that swept to
                    the floor, shutting out the exterior world. The walls of the open halls and
                    rotunda were hung with black and with garlands of laurel, myrtle and evergreen,
                    and the darkened interior was dimly lighted by the flames of the gas
                    chandeliers. All this, be it repeated, represented days of preparation, the
                    effect of which was to key the public mind to the culminating gloom of the
                    funeral day.
            On the eve of that day a special train filled with representative citizens of the
                    state, among who were Governor Morton and his suite, left 
                        Indianapolis
                     for 
                        Richmond
                     to meet the funeral train, much as, four years before, a committee
                    had met the president-elect at the 
                        Illinois
                     line, and at seven o'clock on Sunday morning, April 30,
                    they all steamed into the Union Depot at 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            The interest was profound and widespread, and the streets were crowded with
                    people, many of them from afar. As 
                        Lincoln
                    's presence here on his presidential trip had drawn a
                    record-breaking multitude, so the dead 
                        Lincoln
                     brought even more. And now, as if nature conspired with man to make
                    the occasion somber to the last degree, the day throughout was dismal and rainy,
                    and the thousands of unsheltered people, wet and bedrabbled with mud, spent a
                    forlorn day to be long remembered.6
            
            
               
                  6 The funeral car bore, alone with the remains of the
                        late president, those also of his eon Willie, who had died at 
                            Washington
                         some three years before, as a reporter of the 
                            Indianapolis
                        
                        Journal tells us, though no biographer, so far as I know,
                        makes mention of the fact.
            
            
            A procession through the city had been intended, but owing to the weather, the
                    route traveled included only 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Washington
                     Streets, between the station and the Capitol. The coffin was
                    received from the car by a local guard of honor and placed in a hearse that had
                    been especially built for this purpose, and which was drawn by the same four
                    beautiful white horses that have already been spoken of as arousing the
                    admiration of Mr. Lincoln at his reception in '61. These were now
                    caparisoned with black cloth fringed with silver lace, and each was led by a
                    groom. Two lines of soldiers in uniform, from camps in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , faced each other all along the way, guarding the center of the
                    streets from the dense crowds on either side, and between these lines the
                    cortege passed through a pelting rain, to the music of a solemn dirge played by
                    the City Band, while the bells of the city tolled mournfully. At the main 
                        Washington
                     Street entrance to the Capitol grounds, a long archway or canopy
                    had been built, and as the coffin was here taken from the hearse a choir of
                    sixty voices, led by Professor Benjamin Owen, sang a dirge from the burial
                    service of the Episcopal church, while the body was borne into the Capitol.
                    There, immediately beneath the dome, it was placed on a raised dais, shrouded in
                    black, with a canopy above falling in sable folds, the whole making a
                    catafalque. At the head of the coffin stood a bust of the dead man, crowned with
                    a chaplet of laurel.
            From the time the State House was thrown open to the public in the morning until
                    late that night a double line of people of all ages and conditions passed from
                    east to west through the building for a last brief view of America's
                    greatest son. The solemn silence within, as the throngs passed between the
                    statue-like guards, was broken only by the tramp of countless feet muffled by
                    new matting that had been spread upon the floor for this occasion. The dull
                    booming of a cannon, sounding at half-hour intervals throughout the day, added
                    its depressing note. Between 4,000 and 5,000 children, from the Sunday schools,
                    passed through, and one large group was of colored people with a copy of the
                    Emancipation Proclamation borne at their head, and banners with appropriate
                    inscriptions at intervals in their midst.
            
            On the streets, too, aside from the drapings of woe, were on every hand reminders
                    of the sincerity of this day's demonstration and of the phenomenal
                    regard in which the honored dead was held. Many signs and banners with
                    inscriptions were in evidence, as this Shakesperean quotation, displayed on the
                    Metropolitan Theatre, across the street from the State House: "Abraham 
                        Lincoln
                    —His life was gentle and the elements so mixed in him
                    that Nature might stand up and say to all the world, 'This was a
                    Man.' " There were others of this character, conspicuous among
                    them streamers attached to the street cars, each with its inscription, of which
                    the following are samples: "Rest in peace, thou Gentle Spirit; souls
                    like thine with God inherit Life and Love." "He has gone from
                    Works to his Reward." "With Malice toward None, with Charity
                    to All." "Thou art gone, and Friend and Foe alike appreciate
                    thee now." "Fear not, Abraham, I am thy Shield; thy Reward
                    shall be exceedingly great."
            The State House was not closed to the public till 11 P.M. Then, last scene of
                    all, the culmination of the dreary day, came the midnight procession back to the
                    waiting funeral car at the depot. Again the two lines of soldiers, with arms
                    presented, guarded the way, and every few feet a flaming torch contributed its
                    flickering yellow glare to the murky night, the skies still weeping. Still the
                    crowds lined the streets, and over the multitude lay a reverential hush broken
                    only by the measured tramp of marching feet, the rumbling of wheels, and the
                    wailing sadness of the music that led the way. To quote a Sentinel reporter: "We cannot adequately describe the sensations
                    experienced as we witnessed the slowly-moving cortege pass by. The exhibition
                    was terribly grand and must have been experienced to have been
                    realized."
            The State House remained decorated with its mourning emblems for thirty days. The
                    flowers that had been strewn on the coffin were carefully preserved and made
                    into souvenir bouquets.
         
         
         
            Robert Dale Owen As A Mystic
            Louis MARTIN SEARS, Duke University
            The new psychology is more sympathetic than the old toward the abnormal. It is
                    more humble in recognizing that there are more things in heaven and earth than
                    Horatio dreamt of. In the light of this new spirit among psychologists, may it
                    not behoove historians and biographers to modify their verdicts concerning the
                    unusual men of the past? If such revision be in order, who more worthy of its
                    care than those great men whose sanity was questioned by some of their
                    contemporaries? In this category belongs Robert Dale Owen, of Indiana, whose
                    attempts to pierce beyond the veil of terrestrial experience have clouded the
                    record of his closing years, and in some sense impaired the place in history of
                    one of the most versatile and gifted of men.
            Robert Dale Owen as an historical figure labors, in fact, under the additional
                    handicap that his father, Robert Owen, as a pioneer in the Industrial
                    Revolution, has become so completely the property of economists, and of
                    historians of the economic school, that his son, though essentially more capable
                    and more sensible, suffers from an unfair competition. Yet a brief examination
                    of the son's career will indicate that, unlike his father, who goes
                    down in history as a man of one idea— namely that labor, when treated
                    decently is more efficient and productive than when it is unconscionably
                    exploited—Robert Dale responded to every liberal current of his day.
                    Reform in subjects as divergent as marriage, libraries for country people,
                    newspapers for laboring men, feminism, and architecture, found in him an ardent
                    champion. Yet he so far kept his feet upon the ground that as a practical
                    politician he could reinforce democracy in 
                        New Harmony
                    , win himself a seat in Congress, or make for five years a most
                    acceptable minister to an  Italian kingdom.
                    It was, in fact, during his residence at 
                        Naples
                    , 1853 to 1858, that Robert Dale Owen, who previously had been, like
                    his father, wholly skeptical of religious matters, turned from agnosticism to an
                    active belief in spiritualism. Seances conducted for Prince Luigi, a brother of,
                    the King, first awakened Owen's interest. Once aroused, it never
                    slumbered, and Owen, whose pen was ever active, became a contributor to the
                    literature of this spiritualistic movement. Three volumes constitute his output.
                        Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World, published in
                    1865; Village Life in the West, or Beyond the Breakers,
                    published in 1870; and The Debatable Land Between this World and
                        the Next with Illustrative Narrations, published in 1872. These three
                    works, with occasional excerpts from his other writings, are the chief exhibits
                    for a judgment on the author's sanity. That one verdict is already in,
                    need not prevent a reopening of the case.
            In the present analysis of Owen's views, the works above enumerated will
                    be treated in their chronological sequence in order to give the fairer basis for
                    evidence of the author's waning intellect, if, indeed, such a verdict
                    shall be reached. In the first of these works, Owen makes a solemn profession of
                    faith when he declares: 
                        There is a corner, even in our work-a-day world, where the IDEAL lurks,
                            and whence it may be called forth, to become, not a mere barren fancy,
                            but the prolific parent of progress. And from time to time it is thus
                            called forth, to ennoble and to elevate. It is not the enthusiast only
                            who aspires. What is civilization but realization of human
                                aspirations?1
                  
                    
            
            And again: 
                        I was conversing one day with a French lady of rank, intelligent and
                            thoughtful beyond the average of her class, and happened to express the
                            opinion that progression is probably a law of the next world, as of
                            this. "You really believe, then, in another world?1" she asked.
                        "Certainly, Madame la Comtesse."
                        "Ah! you are a fortunate man," she replied, with some
                            emotion. "How many of us do not!"2
                  
                    
            
            In the early stages of the spiritualistic movement, there was more outspoken
                    sentiment than now against the impiety of seeking to penetrate what God had
                    expressly designed to be a mystery. Owen's reply to such a challenge is
                    that: 
                  
                     1
                            Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World, p.26 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1865).
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., p. 51.
               
                    
                    
                        In prosecuting that research [spiritualism], if any fear to sin by
                            overpassing the limits of permitted inquiry and trespassing upon unholy
                            and forbidden ground, let him be reminded that God, who protects His own
                            mysteries, has rendered that sin impossible; and let him go, reverently
                            indeed, but freely and undoubtingly, forward. If God has closed the Way,
                            man cannot pass thereon. But if He has left open the path, who shall
                            forbid us entrance?8
                  
                    
            
            In his own researches into spiritual phenomena, Owen guards against the haphazard
                    or occasional. "Suffice it for the present to express my conviction,
                    based on experimental proof, that, if the Deity is now permitting communication
                    between mortal creatures in this stage of existence and disembodied spirits in
                    another, He is employing natural causes and general laws to effect His objects;
                    not resorting for that purpose to the occasional and the
                        miraculous."4 In the prosecution of his own
                    researches, Owen has met so many persons who have had dreams with warnings later
                    fulfilled, that he believes that a majority of people have had such an
                        experience.5 One such dream related "by a
                    member of the A—legation, one of the most intelligent and agreeable
                    acquaintances I made in that city," [
                        Naples
                    ] seemed to him undeniably authentic.6
            
            Owen repeatedly insists that spiritualism to be valid must rest on law, and not
                    upon sporadic instances. A fine expression of this faith is contained in the
                    following declaration: "I have already given my reasons for believing
                    that if there be occasional communication between the dead and the living, it
                    occurs under certain fixed conditions, perhaps physical, at all events governed
                    by laws as constant and unchangeable as are those which hold the planets to
                    their appointed course."7
            
            Then there is, of course, the inevitable argument of imposture. Owen's
                    reply to this is, "If, because we detect imposture in a single case, we
                    slur over twenty others as equally unreliable, we are acting no whit more wisely
                    than he who, having received in a certain town a bad dollar, presently concludes
                    that none but counterfeits are to be met with there. It 
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., p. 58.
                  
                     4
                            Ibid., p. 89.
                  
                     5
                            Ibid., p. 153.
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., p. 154.
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., p. 168.
               
                     ought to make him more careful in examining
                    the next coin he receives; nothing more."8
            
            If spiritualism is accepted, "It may be regarded as a mere cutting of
                    the Gordian knot to assume the theory of the spiritual guardianship. Yet if that
                    theory be rejected, have we any other with which to supply its
                        place?"9 Interesting it is that the
                    spiritualist, whom so many regard as somewhat of a radical, should stand on the
                    doctrine of spiritual guardianship shoulder to shoulder with the most orthodox
                    of Roman Catholics!
            After relating a number of spiritualistic experiences, and confessing their
                    generic resemblances each to each, Owen asserts that "It is an odd
                    reason to allege against the credibility of such narratives that they are very
                    numerous, and that in their general character they all agree. Nor is the
                    short-cut by which the poet [Coleridge] reaches an explanation of the phenomena
                    less remarkable. Wesley and his family, he admits, did see and
                    hear what they allege they did; but they were all cataleptics. What! the mastiff
                        also?"10
            
            If the more subtle manifestations of the psychic appear only to the few, that is
                    no reason for the many to disbelieve in them. "There is nothing, then,
                    absurd or illogical in the supposition that some persons may have true
                    perceptions of which we are unconscious. We may not be able to comprehend how they receive these; but our ignorance of the mode of
                    action does not disprove the reality of the effect."11 He follows this with an illustration of an Englishman who could always
                    detect the presence of a cat. (To a modern, this has no other than a physical
                    significance, certainly not a psychic.) The non-psychic majority are to the
                    illuminated few in this regard much as deaf mutes are in our workaday existence,
                    who are obliged "to await the enlightenment of death before we can
                    receive as true except by faith in others' words, the allegations
                    touching these superior perceptions."12
            
            Wilful refusal to admit the possibilities of the unseen places the objector in an
                    irrational position. "In what a maze 
                  
                     8
                            Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World, p. 192.
                  
                     9
                            Ibid., p. 207.
                  
                     10
                            Ibid., p. 239.
                  
                     11
                            Ibid., p. 311.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., p. 312.
               
                     when governed by a settled predetermination
                    to ignore the possibility of a future world, where our spirits may hereafter
                    exist, and whence they may occasionally return!"13
                    Reflection on the character of these return manifestations leads Owen to believe
                    that, not infrequently, the spirits of criminals return to the haunts of their
                    crimes. Apparently they are moved by repentance, "and I shall not be
                    deterred from bringing forward an example, in illustration, by the fear of being
                    charged with Roman Catholic leanings. Eclecticism is true
                        philosophy."14 From it all there comes a moral
                    warning "not to suffer the present and the temporal, necessary and
                    proper in their places as they are, so completely to engross us as to usurp the
                    place, and wholly to exclude the thoughts, of the future and the
                        spiritual!"15
            
            As the work progresses, and Owen feels that he has laid his foundations in what
                    to him at least appeared a scientific fashion, he allows his pen a greater
                    latitude. The speculations that ensue are majestic, and all the nobler for their
                    adherence to what Henry Drummond would have called "natural law in the
                    spiritual world." "We may imagine," says Owen,
                    "that every thing in the next world is governed by principles totally
                    different from those we see in operation here. But why should we imagine this?
                    Does not the same 
                        Providence
                     preside on the further as on the hither side of the Dark
                        River?"16 Again, the author seems to be
                    inherently reasonable when he pleads for the continuity of spiritual existence.
                    "In other words Death destroys not, in any sense, either the life or
                    the identity of man. Nor does it permit the spirit, an angel suddenly become
                    immaculate, to aspire at once to heaven. Far less does it condemn that spirit, a
                    demon instantly debased, to sink incontinently to hell."17
            
            Comforting, too, to a religious spirit is Owen's interpretation of
                    nature as the symbol of God's plan. "We find every portion of
                    God's handiwork instinct with the principle of progression. The seed,
                    the plant, the blossom, the fruit,—these are the types of
                    Nature's gradual workings. All change is a 
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., pp. 370—71.
                  
                     14
                            Ibid., pp. 395-96.
                  
                     15
                            Ibid., p. 427.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., p. 444.
                  
                     17
                            Ibid., p. 478.
               
                     harmonious, connected
                        succession."18 Having reached this theme, the
                    heart and center of his study, Owen's thought and its expression alike
                    become magnificent.
            
                    "The conclusion," he declares, "is evident. He who
                        conducts the soul to the brink of the Dark River deserts it not on the
                        hither side. Nor is that river the boundary of His realm. His laws operate
                        beyond. But these laws, so far as we know them, exhibit no variableness nor
                        shadow of turning. And I see neither reason nor likelihood in the
                        supposition that in any portion of creation they are suspended or reversed.
                        I see neither reason nor likelihood in the theory that, in any portion of
                        creation, progress and exertion will fail to precede improvement, or that
                        man will ever be degraded by agency other than his own."19
               
                
            Swept on by his theme, he becomes a transcendentalist indeed. The grave has lost
                    its sting. "We have nothing to do with the grave. We do not descend to
                    the tomb. It is a cast-off garment, encoffined, to which are paid the rites of
                        sepulture."20 The same beliefs that reveal our
                    future are not without their leaven on our present, for there is "not
                    an aspiration after good that fades, not a dream of the beautiful that vanishes,
                    during the earth-phase of life, but will find noble field and fair realization
                    when the pilgrim has cast off his burden and reached his journey's
                        end."21 The Scriptures themselves bear witness
                    to the "verity of communication with the Invisible world."22 In conclusion, "The light may be imperfect, the
                    disclosures insufficient to appease an eager curiosity. In the dimness of the
                    present, our longings for enlightenment may never attain satisfaction. We may be
                    destined to wait. That which human wit and industry cannot compass in this
                    twilight world, may be a discovery, postponed only till we are admitted, beyond
                    the boundary, into the morning sunshine of another."23
            
            The critical student of theology, natural history, or philosophy may not accept
                    Owen's premises. And he may remain very much on earth while Owen soars
                    into his mystic flights. But he ought, it seems, to recognize the sincerity of
                    Owen's endeavor to rest his case on scientific data. In the light of
                    its 
                  
                     18
                            Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World, p. 482.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., p. 484.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., p. 503.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., pp. 507-8.
                  
                     22
                            Ibid., p. 509.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., p. 510.
               
                     sincerity of purpose and nobility of
                    expression, Footfalls on the Boundary of Another World would
                    seem entitled to a creditable position in the literature of spiritualism.
            
               Village Life in the West or Beyond the Breakers is a novel with
                    a rather thin and transparent plot, bearing constant evidence that its author is
                    a novice at this literary medium. In reality it is a vehicle for exploiting the
                    author's views on spiritualism, and other subjects near his heart and
                    as such it has an interest which must be denied it as a purely literary product.
                    Much of the moralizing is in the best Victorian manner. Thus Owen causes the
                    hero to reflect concerning evil that: 
                        We look at it through a glass, darkly. Had we not better postpone the
                            inquiry?—it need not be for long. By and by the solution may
                            be within our reach. In a short time a Friend—how strange
                            that, because he translates us to a better world, he should have been
                            thought an enemy!—will usher us into a phase of existence
                            where we shall look over a wider periscope—where we shall
                            enjoy keener perceptions and clearer skies.24
                  
                    
            
            Spirits, who by this time had become a firm reality to the author, are
                    represented as under the dominion of a higher power. "If guardian
                    spirits there be," Owen puts it in the form of a condition for the
                    purpose of the novel, "commissioned to watch over the welfare of
                    mortals, where was Sydenham's then? Withheld, it may be, from
                    interference by a Wisdom that sees deeper than ours."25 Death is our friend. "It is when he strikes us through others
                    that Death thrusts home his dart. He is victor, not when he takes us hence, but
                    when he wrests from us the life of our life, and leaves us here exanimate save
                    only in the faculty of suffering."26
            
            To one who follows the career of Owen through Indiana politics, 
                        New York
                     newspaperdom, a European mission, and more of Indiana, Beyond the Breakers will seem almost an autobiography, with Owen
                    himself speaking through the character of Sydenham. Many of his observations are
                    singularly apposite, but only the minority possessing a transcendental or mystic
                    bearing can be referred to here. Prophetic, perhaps, 
                  
                     24
                            Village Life in The West or Beyond the Breakers, A Story of
                                the Present Day, P. 24 (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1870).
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., p. 38.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., p. 39.
               
                     is the declaration that "Human
                    strife—even war itself, no doubt—has its mission, yet the
                    peacemakers are to be the ultimate rulers of a civilized world."27 A dream vision receives the following narration: 
                        And in his dream he thought: "Ah! if she were but here, to
                            rejoice with me in that glorious sunrise!" And, with that,
                            there was a light step coming from within, and there was a gentle touch
                            on his shoulder; and he turned to look into eyes that he had never yet
                            ventured, except in dreams, fairly to encounter. Such eyes! He had found
                            out their color at last! Then it all faded away, and he was out in the
                            dim world again, talking to men, attending to
                            business…….He awoke on the hillside by the edge of
                            the forest, alone.28
                  
                    
            
            Owen's first child, Florence, had died in infancy. She lies buried in
                    the family plot at 
                        New Harmony
                    . Above her head is an inscription of Owen's selection,
                    which he reintroduces in Beyond the Breakers in an obviously
                    autobiographical passage. The sentiment is genuine and touching: 
                        A little farther on she passed a marble slab which she had not seen
                            before, for it had been but recently placed. It recalled to her a
                            melancholy incident. A few weeks before a German professor and his wife,
                            friends of the Meyracs, had spent a few days at the doctor's
                            house, on their way to 
                                Iowa
                            . Their infant died there suddenly, of croup, and this was
                            the grave. The inscription was in German: and Celia, struck with its
                            grace, translated it.
                        "Ephemera all die at sunset, and no insect of this class ever
                            sported in the rays of the rising sun. Happier are ye, little human
                            ephemera! Ye play in the ascending beam and in the early dawn and in the
                            eastern light; drink only the first sweet draughts of life; hover, for a
                            little while, over a world of freshness and blossoms, and then fall
                            asleep in innocence, ere ever the morning dews are exhaled."29
                  
                    
            
            That Owen did not allow a belief in spiritualism to do other than strengthen his
                    faith in Christian principles is attested in the following passage. "
                    'See!' he added in a low, reverent tone: 'if every
                    particle of historical truth set up in support of the Christian scheme of morals
                    and eternal life were swept away tomorrow, it would still be to me the
                    revealment of love and light it is—itself its own witness.'
                        "30
            
            Published later than the preceding, and undoubtedly the maturest expression of
                    Owen's interest in the unseen, is The
                    
                  
                     27
                            Village Life in the West or Beyond the Breakers, p.
                            87.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., pp. 119-20.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., p. 152.
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., p. 162.
               
                    
                    Debatable Land between this World and the Next with Illustrative
                        Narrations. Assembled from their various places in the work many of its
                    passages constitute a creed of which the author need not be ashamed.
                    "How heart sinking," he cries, "—how
                    utterly unworthy—the conception that, under Divine Economy, that
                    grand privilege of progress to which man owes all he ever was or ever will be is
                    denied to the science of the Soul, while inhering in every other!"31 And a little farther on: Simple theism, shut
                        out from the cheering warmth of spiritual revealings, is ungenial and
                        unsatisfactory.
               32 So confident is Owen that the
                    world to come is but a continuation that he writes: "Our state here
                    determines our initial state there. The habitual promptings, the pervading
                    impulses, the life-long yearnings, in a word the moving spirit, or what
                    Swedenborg calls the 'ruling loves' of man—these
                    decide his condition on entering the next world: not the written articles of his
                    creed, nor yet the incidental errors of his life."33
            
            A proper relation between spiritualism and Christianity as commonly accepted is
                    set forth in Owen's declaration that "The idea is daily
                    gaining ground that its occult agencies may richly repay earnest research. The
                    essential is that the entire subject should be studied in its broad phase as one
                    of the vital elements of an enlightened Christian faith."34 One of the most interesting passages in all of Owen's
                    writings is his endeavor to reconcile biological science with his spiritualistic
                    concepts. It deserves quotation at length: 
                        So, again, in regard to the succession of animal life on earth, reaching
                            back into historic time. Geology informs us that there was a period of
                            untold duration when this world, occupied by the lower races, was
                            uninhabited by man. An eminent modern naturalist [Darwin] exploring that
                            period and investigating the principle of vital progress, has brought
                            prominently forward a great, general law governing gradual improvement
                            of species by means of natural selection and the preservation of the
                            best out of each—both animal and vegetable—in the
                            struggle for existence. But he has adduced no facts attesting change of
                            one species to another; nor disclosed to us any link connecting brute
                            and man. There remains, therefore, intact, the
                            hypothesis—surely not an unreasonable one—that
                            there inhered, in the law which regulated preadamite life, a condition
                            according to which a creature endowed with reason and gifted 
                        
                           31
                                    The Debatable Land Between This World and the Next
                                        With Illustrative Narrations, p. 46 (
                                        New York
                                    , 1872).
                        
                           32
                                    Ibid., p. 160.
                        
                           33
                                    Ibid., p. 172.
                        
                           34
                                    Ibid., p. 240.
                     
                             with faculties and sentiments that
                            enable him to conceive and desire a Hereafter, did, at a certain point
                            of advancement, suddenly appear; a creature destined to subjugate earth
                            and attain heaven."35
                  
                    
            
            Surely the man who penned the lines just quoted had a religious spirit, even
                    though all his life he remained unorthodox. Alive to all the thought currents of
                    his day, it was not remarkable that he was a pioneer in the endeavor to
                    reconcile science and religion, an endeavor to which choice spirits are still
                    committed. Lest his efforts be attributed to ought but friendliness to the
                    Christian religion, he submits the following profession of faith: 
                        Here let me be permitted to say a word with more personal reference to
                            myself. I could not more religiously venerate than I now venerate
                            Christ's teachings and his person; I could not more deeply feel
                            than I now feel the bounden duty to heed his sayings and to do what in
                            me lies toward following his example if the theologians had succeeded in
                                beating1 into my brain all the perplexities that
                            have crowded into the Athanasian creed. If others find, through such
                            subtilties, comfort in affliction, warmth for sinking faith, motive to
                            stir flagging zeal, incentive to religious duty, it is well: let them
                            profit by what they are able to accept. The Alexandrian Patriarch does
                            not speak either to my heart or to my understanding. They who can receive his doctrine, let them receive it.36
                  
                    
            
            That spiritualism could give its votaries that comfort in affliction which others
                    find in Trinitarian orthodoxy Owen demonstrates by his account of his
                    father's death. The elder Owen is usually accounted a religious
                    radical, an agnostic to put it mildly. And it has been often urged that his
                    enthusiasm for reform would have carried greater weight with pious folk had they
                    not been so deeply shocked by his well known sentiments on religion. To persons
                    not acquainted with his later years the following relation may prove surprising:
                        
                        "I find," says Robert Dale Owen, "the
                            following entry in my journal, written just after his [Robert
                            Owen's] death: 'During the last seven or eight years
                            of my father's life he was an unwavering believer in
                            Spiritualism; though I doubt whether the same amount of evidence which
                            convinced him would have satisfied me. To the last he spoke of a future
                            life with the same undoubting certainty as of any earthly event, which
                            he expected soon to occur. His death was the most peaceful I ever
                            witnessed.' "37
                  
                    
            
            
               
                  35
                        The Debatable Land Between This World and the Next, pp.
                        261-63.
               
                  36
                        Ibid., p. 273.
               
                  37
                        Ibid., p. 371n.
            
            
            
               The Debatable Land contains a number of detailed accounts of
                    spiritualistic manifestations. Some of them are of unusual interest, and there
                    is no doubt that the author deemed them authentic. One interested in such
                    testimony can find the stories without difficulty. The present paper is
                    concerned chiefly with the generalizations which Owen drew from these
                    investigations. One of the most beautiful of these is his vision of the welcome
                    given to newcoming spirits by those gone on before. "Death is an Angel
                    of Mercy there. He is Heaven's Herald of joy, for whose messages
                    yearning souls wait. Through him, the Comforter, comes re-union in the many
                    mansions that had been lonely, even amid celestial surroundings, till he brought
                    the earthly wanderers home. Then satisfied hearts stray no longer from heavenly
                        abodes."38 In this concluding passage lies, of
                    course, the spiritualists' explanation of why it is that communication
                    is established only with those more recently deceased, rather than with the dead
                    of former ages.
            From a Christian viewpoint the culmination of Owen's philosophy is his
                    tribute to the risen Christ. "I, having, like the disciples, witnessed
                    an apparition, know, as they did, that it is not impossible; and believe, as
                    they did, that Christ showed himself to them. I can thoroughly understand,
                    though I might not have imitated, that constancy of faith which braved
                    sufferings and death."39
            
            The present study makes no pretense of weighing the spiritualistic argument. It
                    is content to set forth the spirituality of Owen himself, and to reveal in this
                    practical politician and man of affairs a vein of idealism which lifted him out
                    of the rut of materialism into a mystic transcendentalism. That way madness
                    lies, of course, and if some of his contemporaries thought him a trifle mad,
                    they judged according to their lights. But men do live on different planes of
                    thought and aspiration, and Owen's was a high one. If here he has been
                    treated as a mystic, he could with equal profit have been studied as an educator
                    and practical reformer. His was, indeed, a many-sided genius.
            
               
                  38
                        Ibid., p. 410.
               
                  39
                        Ibid., p. 453.
            
         
         
         
            Mary Wright, Pioneer Musician of 
                        Switzerland County
                    
            
            Mrs. A. V. (EFFA MORRISON) DANNER, 
                        Vevay
                    
            
            Read at the midyear meeting of the Indiana Historical Society at 
                        Vevay
                    , October 15, 1927.
            For four years our county Historical Society has been interested in the
                    development of music in pioneer days in 
                        Switzerland County
                    . The life of our first classical musician, Miss Mary. Wright, and
                    her Muzio Clementi piano, which was brought to this county in 1817, is now an
                    historical story, stranger than fiction. The piano and two volumes of music were
                    donated to the Society in 1924 and 1927 by Miss Bird Cotton, of Craig Township.
            The manufacturer of this piano, Muzio Clementi, was born in
                            
                  Rome, Italy
               , in 1752. He was educated in 
                        England
                     and appeared in a concert at 
                        London
                     in 1770, "with unparalled command of the Piano."
                    His concerts were very successful and continued until 1810. The early piano upon
                    which he played was so crude that he could not express the harmony of which he
                    dreamed and which he composed. So thinking to improve pianos, he invested in
                    Broadrip & Longman Company, 1785, at Cheapside, 
                        London
                    . He lost heavily when they failed in 1798. He at once established a
                    new company in his own name, Muzio Clementi, which existed from 1798 until 1818.
            Our Piano is marked NEW PATENT, MUZIO CLEMENTI CO.— CHEAPSIDE LONDON,
                    NO. 8736. It is made after the style of the clavichord—seven and
                    one-half feet long, two feet wide and has five and one-half octaves. A thin case
                    of solid black walnut standing on five spindle legs, the hammers, sounding
                    board, and all the interior works are walnut. Each note is set on a peg of its
                    own, fastened into the case proper; they can be removed only one at a time. It
                    has only one soft pedal, placed so near the edge of the case, on the left side,
                    that the pedal, in the  shape of a foot,
                    extends past the edge of the case. It shows very distinctly the evolution of the
                    knee swell to the pedal invented in 1783 and placed in the same position,
                    dementi is regarded as the father of modern piano technique, distinguished from
                    the harpsichord.
            At this early time there lived in 
                        London
                     John W. Wright, born 1766. He married Mary Harrison. They were the
                    parents of three children: Mary, born May 11, 1793; Sarah, of the date of whose
                    birth we have no record; John, Jr., born April 8, 1805. They were cultured,
                    aristocratic, wealthy folk; though not titled they expected their children to
                    grace high social position.
            That Mary might have all the accomplishments of her time, her father bought her a
                    Muzio Clementi piano. It must have been a happy day when this treasure was
                    brought in to the household, which was furnished with corresponding luxuries and
                    servants to answer every call. They had great social ambition, but financial
                    clouds began to gather over the family. Time drifted by; Mary became a beautiful
                    accomplished young lady, with ideal manners of conventional English society. She
                    attended the concerts of Clementi and, with her mother, was presented at the
                    court of King George m. Her prospects of life were as bright as a summer
                    morning. She was betrothed to the man she loved. In her maiden dreams life was
                    an endless brook, rippling forever through a garden of roses.
            In the two volumes of her music, on which her name is printed in letters of gold,
                    is the song "Canzonet" addressed to a young lady on her
                    birthday by G. E. Griffin, printed by Clementi and Company, autographed from the
                    author to Captain South, with the words of hope, "May radiant wisdom
                    guard thy youthful way, with every step thy knowledge to increase, beaming so
                    brightly, that you can not stray from ways of pleasantness and paths of
                    Peace." Another song entitled "Encamped on the Coast"
                    was written by Captain James, melody by Captain South; we imagine these men were
                    her musical friends. This music is written for either piano or harpsichord, with
                    flute and violin. The words are printed with the long English
                    "s." There are also duets composed by Christian Bach, Esq.,
                    music master to the Queen. "Remember  Me," dedicated to the Princess Amelia, is dated 1810. The well
                    thumbed pages of the Overture "Chieftain of 
                        Ireland
                    " show it was a favorite of hers; it was printed by
                    Broadrip and Longman, 1798, and performed in the Theater, Royal Convent
                    Gar-dents, 
                        London
                    . Other pieces are: "Life let us Cherish," by
                    Mozart; "Softly Sweet in Lydian Measure," by Handel;
                    "Sweet Bird in L'Allegro and Il'Penseroso,"
                    by Handel; "Where is this Stupendous Stranger," by Handel (the
                    music is written for the first and second violin and the piano, and the words
                    both French and English); a cantata, "Cymon and Iphigenia,"
                    which contains recitations with piano accompaniment; rondos for the harpsichord;
                    "Tell me where is Fancy Bred," duet in two voices, words by
                    Shakespeare, music by Sir J. A. Stephenson, Music Dr., sold by Clementi
                    & Co., 26 Cheapside, 
                        London
                    , price one shilling; sonatas for piano or harpsichord, with violin
                    accompaniment by Valinteno Niccolai; and many others.
            Mary Wright must have had an excellent, well trained soprano voice, to have sung
                    the music in these selections. "Coming Thru the Rye" is the
                    only popular song in the collection.
            The financial crash came, ended was the court, the song and laughter. John
                    Wright, evidently with the consent of his creditors, who could have thrown him
                    into debtors prison for life, decided to come to America to retrieve his
                    fortune. A manuscript of arithmetical problems, signed by John Wright, Jr., 
                        London
                    , July, 1817, owned by Harrold Cotton, 
                  Jefferson County, Indiana
               , gives the approximate date of their sailing
                    from 
                        London
                    . We can scarcely imagine Mary's woe at the breaking of
                    home ties and separation from her lover (who was to follow when he could arrange
                    his business), and at setting out for an unknown wilderness.
            After crossing the sea and the mountains, John Wright purchased a flatboat at 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , had it fitted up in an unusual style with private rooms for the
                    family, and furnished it with carpets and even a piano. So they drifted down the
                        Ohio river to 
                        Vevay
                    , where they lived on the flatboat for some time while getting
                    located on the land grant. It was here that Mary gave her first concert in 
                        Switzerland County
                    , for the French  were wild to
                    hear her play the piano, an instrument many had never heard.
            John Wright entered land (original grant number 8699) in Pleasant and Craig
                    townships, 
                        Switzerland county
                    , and in Jefferson county.1 His principal tract
                    was near Five Points, Craig township. There he built a double, hewed log house;
                    i.e., two houses, built with a twelve foot space between them, twenty feet
                    square and one and a half stories high. The poplar logs are chinked with wedges
                    of wood and mortar. It was a most pretentious house in its time, 1817. In front
                    are two old cedar trees and an old well with moss-covered walls.
            This house is now owned by Roger Holder and is used for a barn; sheds are built
                    around it, except on one end of one house. Mr. Archibald Shaw, president of the 
                        Dearborn County
                     Historical Society, whose grandfather Rous owned the adjoining
                    grant, tells us that one room was lined with bookshelves, Wright having brought
                    a large library with him. The Cotton family has one book from this library, Aesop's Fables, with quaint steel engravings. No
                    doubt the furniture was hauled out to this log house in the forest primeval by
                    oxen. When I visited it in August, 1927, we trembled for our tires and springs,
                    so rough were the roads even after 110 years of travel.
            The ladies from 
                        London
                     tried to keep up their conventional costumes in this backwoods
                    environment. They dressed for dinner in handsome costumes of satin, brocade,
                    velvet, point lace and fine linens. They never went out without being heavily
                    veiled. No doubt Mary had high hopes that her lover would rescue her from this
                    wilderness exile. No doubt Captain South's melody rang soft and true,
                    "All my soul was turned to you …. Do you think of one, who
                    dearly, Dearly loves to think of you." When the long looked for tidings
                    came from 
                        England
                    , her faithless lover had married another. "A malady preyed
                    upon her heart, that medicine could not reach." She either could not or
                    would not accommodate herself to changed circumstances and make new friends in
                    her 
                  
                     1
                            
                                Cincinnati
                             Dist., in Pleasant tp., S.W. 1/4 sec. 19, T.3N., R.3W., 1st
                            prin. mer., 168 acres, Dec. 26, 1817; 
                                Jeffersonville
                             Dist., in Jefferson ec, S.E. 1/4 sec. 21, T.4N., R.12E.,
                            2nd prin. mer., 160 acres, Jan. 19, 1819; Craig tp., fract. sec. 27,
                            T.4N., R.12E., 476 acres, Jan. 25, 1819.
               
                     new home, yet she often played and sang for
                    those who were music hungry and came to hear.
            After five years of backwoods life, Mary received a legacy, from whom, we know
                    not. The 
                        Switzerland County
                     records show that on September 12, 1822, John Wright gave a
                    mortgage deed on his property to his daughter, Mary Wright, spinster, for
                    $5,000 for money and effects received. He was to pay out in one year
                    or pay legal interest until paid. The document was signed, and it was witnessed
                    by Samuel Merrill and Edward Patton, justice of peace. On December 5, 1822 John
                    Wright borrowed $1,200 of his daughter, Mary Wright, and gave
                    security, namely, all the tract of land being on the other side of Indian Creek,
                    the northwest quarter of fractional section 27 range 12 east, purchased of 
                        Jeffersonville
                     District, the 160 acres on which he lived. This was witnessed by
                    William Carpenter and John Wright, Jr., before John Frances Dufour. Also, on
                    December 5, 1822, he borrowed $1,000 of Mary; as security he gave the
                    stock, furniture, books, farm implements and household utensils that were in his
                    possession on the tract of land he sold her this same day, excepting one cow and
                    calf, two beds, one bake oven, two handirons, two gridirons, one carpet, six
                    chairs, six knives and forks, one bread basket and one tea kettle. William
                    Carpenter was the witness of this mortgage. Altogether, Mary loaned her father
                    $7,200, for which he mortgaged all he possessed. He told his friend
                    Mr. Rous, at about this time, that he was at last free from his English debts.
                    That he was never free from its humiliating burden, is shown in the records.
            The second daughter, Sarah Wright, married a French widower, Justus Vairin,
                    October 9, 1824. They moved to Owensboro, 
                        Kentucky
                    , and had a family of six children, who eventually inherited the
                    Wright estate.
            John Wright died February 9, 1836. His sense of honor 'is shown in these
                    mortgage deeds, made to his daughter. It is entirely possible that under the lax
                    laws of those days regarding property rights, and under the existing
                    circumstances, that he might have taken possession of the money without giving
                    security.
            When Mary brought suit to foreclose the mortgage, there was due her, principal
                    and interest, $9,350. In July, 1837, the  sheriff, Ralph B. Cotton, gave notice that this
                    property would be sold at the courthouse door on August 17, 1837, by public
                    outcry to the highest bidder. The sheriffs deed to Mary, August 18, for 476
                    acres, was in the sum of $4,500. So Mary scarcely received half of
                    the money value she originally loaned.
            Mary, her mother, and John, Jr., who never married, continued their family life
                    on the farm. To create a diversion, Mary began a series of concerts, an
                    invitation to which was considered a social honor. The unusual musical program,
                    the exquisite costume, the formal court manner, the stage effect of the Royal
                    Theater, brought a thrill of 
                        London
                     society at its best to the pioneers, who considered it a rare
                    entertainment. Mary's room was in the half story, where she reached the
                    door by climbing an outside ladder. There she dressed in her satin court dress
                    and jewels, and when the neighbors arrived, the Rouses, the Cottons, the Baynes,
                    Schaffars, Hutchinsons, and others, she appeared in the lower doorway, made a
                    court bow, and seating herself at the piano, played her entire repertoire, of
                    classical music, old English ballads, and reels. Then making another bow, after
                    the manner of the Master dementi's stage concerts, she went out,
                    climbed up the ladder to her room, and the guests dispersed without adieu. For
                    over forty years these concerts were repeated. Mr. Bayne, who is now over eighty
                    years of age, is the only person living who attended these concerts in his
                    youth. The piano was never tuned, nor did Mary Wright ever have a new page of
                    music in all these years.
            In 1851 her mother died. December 20, 1863, John, Jr., died. In about 1865 Sarah
                    died in 
                        Kentucky
                    , leaving Mary alone. The candle light of love in her heart was
                    gradually snuffed out, until the bitterness of fate was greater than she could
                    bear. She summed up her life in an epigram, which lived in the mind of a friend.
                    She said, "I left high social position in 
                        England
                    , to come to this place, where there is nothing but the grass under
                    my feet, the trees around me and the blue sky overhead."
            Perry Cotton was her business agent. No matter how urgent the business, she would
                    not receive him without a previous engagement. Then dressed in her best costume,
                    wearing a bonnet that concealed her features, she received him with the  formality due a foreign ambassador at the
                    Court of King George III.
            For years she only went out to wander by moonlight among the graves of her dead,
                    and then for quite a while she kept to her room, being physically unable to
                    descend the ladder; no steps to her room were ever made. The spirit's
                    call, in the words of her old opera, "The Traveler," was
                    "Death, Thou Art Welcome to me, Welcome now to me. For Hark! Hark! the
                    glad trumpet sounds the victory." It was heard by our little court lady
                    on April 21, 1875, when she was eighty-two years of age.
            Her remains were lowered from her room by a rope. She was buried in the private
                    cemetery in the "East Park" back of the house, now owned by
                    Charles Wolf. Here each grave has a separate vault, built two and one-half feet
                    above the ground, and filled with broken rock. Over all is a stone slab three
                    inches thick. At the end of the vault wall is a white marble tablet bearing
                    inscriptions. It is odd that even here in this holy quietness Mary's
                    inscription should be seared and smoked, and the top stone broken by lightning,
                    as though Nature too, had held a grudge. It was reported that the graveyard was
                    haunted by a flickering light often seen there, and it was said Mary's
                    spirit still walked by candle light among her dead, even as she walked while
                    living. But after Mr. Wolf drained the swamp land, back of the graves,
                    Mary's spirit at last rested in peace. After the death of Mary, Cecelia
                    Vairin, her niece, came from Kentucy to take charge of the estate. She found it
                    necessary to make a minute search of the house, as jewels, old English money,
                    and solid silver service were hid between the logs; in old papers was found an
                    oil portrait of an ancestor, while other valuables reposed in a trash barrel.
                    While attending to this business, she visited with Perry Cotton's
                    family; she gave the piano and music to Miss Bird Cotton, and English souvenirs
                    to other members of that family.
            When Mary Wright imitated the concerts of the great music master, Clementi, of 
                        London
                    , to make a diversion in her banishment from musical companionship,
                    her only thought was to give a little pleasure to those who lived around her.
                    But while she filled the aching void of her soul, she all unknowingly  became the Genesis of Indiana music. Her tragedy is
                    beautifully expressed in one of her old songs, "Words by Tho's
                    Moore Esq. Sir J. S. Stevenson—Music Doc." "Fare
                    thee well, yet think awhile, …. Thou leav'st me many a
                    bitter token, My peace is gone, my heart broken, Fare thee well."
         
         
         
            Boundaries of 
                        Wayne County
                     and Its Townships
            LUTHER M. FEEGER, 
                        Richmond
                    
            
            The historical background of the formation of 
                        Wayne county
                     possesses an interest transcending the narrow confines of its
                    present geographical limitations. Outstanding lines of division in the early
                    history of eastern Indiana, such as the Fort Recovery line; the Twelve Mile
                    Purchase boundary, and the "Gore," for instance, are
                    associated with the setting apart of this county. A considerable portion, too,
                    of the area of 
                        Wayne county
                     lies between the historic Fort Recovery line and the Twelve Mile
                    Purchase boundary. From 1810 until 1818, when 
                        Randolph county
                     was organized, 
                        Wayne
                    , extending north to the point where a southwest line from Fort
                    Recovery intersected the Twelve Mile Purchase line, constituted the apex of a
                    narrow frontier strip; its western boundary— the Twelve Mile Purchase
                    line—marked the beginning of the Indian lands.
            Only five counties had been organized in Indiana Territory prior to the setting
                    apart of 
                        Franklin
                     and 
                        Wayne
                     in one legislative act, in 1810; and of the five older counties,
                    one—Jefferson—was set off only four days before 
                        Franklin
                     and 
                        Wayne
                    , so that Wayne, ranking as the seventh oldest county in Indiana, is
                    one of the very early political units of the commonwealth. The discussion of the 
                        Wayne county
                     boundary must of necessity be a chronological one, beginning
                    briefly with the formation of the Northwest Territory and the narrowing
                    subdivisions made down to the year 1811 when 
                        Wayne county
                     became an organized political unit of Indiana Territory, and coming
                    down to the last act passed by the legislature affecting the boundary of the
                    county.
            The Northwest Territory embraced the present states of 
                  Ohio, Indiana, Illinois,
                            Michigan, Wisconsin
               , and that part of 
                        Minnesota
                     east of the Mississippi River. General Arthur
                    St.  Clair, elected governor of the territory
                    by Congress, issued a proclamation on July 27, 1788, organizing the first county
                    in it, 
                        Washington county
                    , comprising the eastern half of the present state of 
                        Ohio
                    , with 
                        Marietta
                     as county seat. By 1796 there were four counties in the territory: 
                        Washington
                    , with 
                  Marietta,
                            Ohio
               , as county
                    seat; 
                        Hamilton
                    , with 
                  Cincinnati,
                            Ohio
               , as county
                    seat; St. Clair, with 
                  Kaskaskia,
                            Illinois
               , as county
                    seat; and 
                        Knox
                    , with 
                  Vincennes,
                            Indiana
               , as county seat.
            The distances between the various seats of local government in this vast domain,
                    as well as the gradual infiltration of settlers, created by 1800 the
                    advisability, indeed, the necessity of reducing the areas of judicial,
                    political, and civil administration to more compact jurisdictions. As a result,
                    the eastern portion of the Northwest Territory was set off from the remainder.
                    The boundary line established by the treaty of General 
                        Wayne
                     with the Indians at Greenville in 1795, became the western boundary
                    of this eastern portion, which included the present state of 
                        Ohio
                     and eastern 
                        Michigan
                    , retaining the name of Northwest Territory until, with altered
                    boundaries, it became in 1802 the state of 
                        Ohio
                    . The western portion of the original Northwest Territory, extending
                    westward from the treaty line to the Mississippi river and
                    northward to 
                        Canada
                    , including the present states of 
                  Indiana, Illinois,
                            Wisconsin
               , and parts
                    of 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Minnesota
                    , was re-organized, receiving the name of Indiana Territory. Broadly
                    speaking, everything west of the 
                        Ohio
                     line to the Mississippi river and north to 
                        Canada
                     was included in Indiana Territory.
            Indiana Territory when set off in 1800 contained three counties; St. Clair, with 
                        Kaskaskia
                     as county seat, organized in 1790; 
                        Knox
                    , with 
                        Vincennes
                     as county seat, organized in 1790; and 
                        Wayne
                    , with 
                        Detroit
                     as county seat, organized in 1796. St. Clair comprised about the
                    present territory of 
                  Illinois; Knox
               
                    contained, roughly speaking, about the present area of Indiana; and 
                        Wayne
                     included northern 
                  Ohio, Indiana
                north of a
                    line from 
                        Fort Wayne
                     to the south end of Lake 
                        Michigan
                    , a small part of 
                        Illinois
                    , eastern 
                        Wisconsin
                    , and all of 
                  Michigan. Wayne county
               ,
                    of Northwest Territory and Indiana Territory, must not be confused with the
                    later 
                        Wayne
                    
                     county in the state of Indiana. The former
                    soon became in part 
                        Michigan
                     Territory; the latter has no connection whatever with it and lies
                    entirely outside its boundaries. The present area of 
                        Wayne county
                    , Indiana, in 1800 was in 
                        Knox county
                    , Indiana Territory, except so much of it as was included in the
                    "Gore," which belonged to 
                        Hamilton county
                    , Northwest Territory (
                        Ohio
                    ).
            The 
                        Ohio
                     Enabling Act of 1802 gave to Indiana Territory the portion of old 
                        Wayne county
                    , Northwest Territory, north of the 
                        Ohio
                     line. The next year saw the creation of a new 
                        Wayne county
                     (later 
                        Michigan
                    ) bounded on the west by a meridian tangent to the western shore of
                    Lake 
                        Michigan
                    , on the south by a parellel tangent to the southern point of Lake 
                        Michigan
                    , and on the east and north by 
                        Canada
                    . Residents of 
                        Detroit
                     soon sought separation from the government at 
                        Vincennes
                    , owing to the three hundred miles that separated them from the seat
                    of territorial government, and in 1805, Congress passed a bill whereby the
                    territory north of the line run from the southern tip of Lake 
                        Michigan
                     became the Territory of 
                        Michigan
                    . The northern boundary of Indiana Territory subsequently was moved
                    ten miles north of the line by congressional enactment.
            The establishment of the eastern boundary of the Territory of Indiana affected
                    the area of what was to become 
                        Wayne county
                    . By Wayne's treaty with the Indians at Greenville in 1795,
                    part of the Indian boundary line extended from Fort Recovery, in 
                        Ohio
                    , southwest to a point on the Ohio river
                    opposite the mouth of the Kentucky river. That line was
                    part of the eastern boundary of Indiana Territory, but the 
                        Ohio
                     Enabling Act of 1802 shifted the western boundary of 
                        Ohio
                     to a meridian extending north from the mouth of the Big
                        Miami river. The triangular strip between these lines,
                    known as the "Gore," thus became part of Indiana Territory.
                    For purposes of government it was attached to 
                        Clark county
                    . The original Indiana-
                        Ohio
                     line (the Fort Recovery or Greenville Treaty line) passes into 
                        Wayne county
                     north and a little east of 
                        Fountain City
                    . The 
                        Richmond
                     chapter of the D. A.R. has erected a marker at the point where the
                    Fort Recovery or  Greenville Treaty line
                    crosses the National Road west of 
                        Richmond
                    .
            By the 
                        Ohio
                     Enabling Act of 1802 settlers in the Whitewater valley were now
                    citizens of Indiana and residents of 
                        Clark county
                    , which had been organized from the eastern part of 
                        Knox
                     in 1801, with the county seat at the Falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    . The inconvenience of making long trips to the county seat was
                    responsible for an agitation that induced Governor Harrison to make a separate
                    county (
                        Dearborn
                    ) of the "Gore," with the county seat at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    . This document was dated March 7, 1803. 
                        Dearborn county
                    , or the "Gore," prior to the formation of 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Franklin counties
                    , was composed of the present counties of 
                        Dearborn
                     and 
                        Ohio
                    , and parts of 
                  Switzerland,
                            Franklin
               , Union, and 
                        Wayne
                    . It may be noted here that by 1803 and 1804 settlers were scattered
                    up the Whitewater river as far north as Dunlapsville in 
                        Union county
                    , but it was not until the next year that the first settlers
                    explored the land that is now comprised in 
                        Wayne county
                    .
            We have seen thus far that the present area of 
                        Wayne county
                     originally was partly in 
                        Knox county
                     of Indiana Territory, and partly in 
                        Ohio
                     until the 
                        Ohio
                     Enabling Act of 1802, when all of it came under Indiana sovereignty
                    and became an integral part of 
                        Clark county
                    ; and that in 1803, it became part of 
                        Dearborn county
                    , which had been set off from 
                        Clark county
                    . All this antedates the coming of the first settlers to 
                        Wayne county
                     proper but is essential for an understanding of later boundary
                    changes. In the year that settlements began in the future 
                        Wayne county
                     (1805), the region which is now 
                        Illinois
                     was still part of Indiana Territory; original 
                        Wayne county
                     in Indiana Territory had become in part the Territory of 
                        Michigan
                    ; giving Indiana Territory five counties in the first territorial
                    legislature of that year (1805). They were 
                        Dearborn
                    , Clark, 
                        Knox
                    , St. Clair, and 
                        Randolph
                    , the latter two being in what is now 
                        Illinois
                    .
            In 1809 Congress created 
                        Illinois
                     Territory embracing "all that part of Indiana Territory
                    which lies west of the Wabash river, and a direct line
                    drawn from the said Wabash river and Post 
                        Vincennes
                    , due north to the territorial line between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                    ." 
                        Harrison county
                     having been  formed in 1808,
                    there were four organized counties left in Indiana Territory in 1809, all with
                    county seats in the southern part of the present state: 
                        Knox
                     (1790) in the southwest, Clark (1801) and 
                        Dearborn
                     (1803) in the southeast, and Harrison (1808) in the middle of the
                    southern end.
            When George Holman, Richard Rue, and Thomas McCoy and their families, the first
                    whites to settle in 
                        Wayne county
                    , came here in 1805, they settled about two miles south of 
                        Richmond
                    . At that time only the land in that part of 
                        Wayne county
                     which lies east of the Fort Recovery line belonged to the
                    government, a strip about eight and one-fourth miles wide at the south line,
                    four and one-fourth at the north line, and about six and three-fourths where the
                    National Road now intersects it. The territory west of this land was Indian
                    land.
            In 1809, Governor Harrison signed a treaty at 
                        Fort Wayne
                     with the Indians making the so-called Twelve Mile Purchase. It
                    embraced the strip of land twelve miles wide immediately west of the Greenville
                    Treaty line (Fort Recovery to the mouth of the Kentucky
                    river) beginning at the Grouseland Treaty (1805) line on the south
                    and ending at the north on the 
                        Ohio
                    
               ∗ Indiana boundary in the angle made
                    by the Greenville Treaty line and a line drawn exactly southwest from Fort
                    Recovery to its intersection with the "Twelve Mile" line
                    (which ran parrallel to the Greenville Treaty line and marked the western
                    boundary of the Twelve Mile Purchase). As has already been said, the Greenville
                    Treaty line on the east of this purchase crosses the National road about two and
                    a half miles west of 
                        Richmond
                    , the "Twelve Mile" line on the west of the
                    purchase runs through Perry, Dalton, Jefferson, and Jackson townships of the
                    present 
                        Wayne county
                     and goes through the west part of 
                        Cambridge City
                    . Both lines run about thirteen degrees east of north.
            It is interesting to note that in the laying off of land by the government in
                    townships, ranges, and sections, the Fort Recovery line, running in a southwest
                    direction by the terms of the Greenville Treaty, made a division line. All land
                    east of the Fort Recovery line was laid off in ranges west from the 
                        Ohio
                    -Indiana boundary, or from the first principal meridian. Land west
                    of the Fort Recovery line was laid off in ranges  east from the second principal meridian. No such
                    consideration was given to the Twelve Mile Purchase line. It is to be regretted
                    that no marker has yet been erected designating the course of the Twelve Mile
                    Purchase line through 
                        Wayne county
                    .1
            
            This purchase gave a decided impetus to the settlement of the upper Whitewater
                    valley. Inevitably the long distance to 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , the 
                        Dearborn county
                     seat of government for settlers in the Whitewater valley, impelled
                    them to ask for a county government of their own and was responsible for the
                    movement for the legislative act setting up two new counties on the eastern
                    boundary of the territory.
            In 1809 and 1810 Richard Rue and Ephraim Overman were elected representatives to
                    the territorial legislature from 
                        Dearborn county
                    . In 1810 
                  Jefferson,
                            Franklin
               , and 
                        Wayne counties
                     were set apart by the territorial legislature, 
                        Wayne
                     being the seventh county formed in the state. The Enabling Act of 
                        Franklin
                     and 
                        Wayne counties
                     (the two are embraced in one act) passed the third General Assembly
                    of the territory at 
                        Vincennes
                    , November 27, 1810, and became effective February 1, 1811.
            The text of the act, so far as boundaries are concerned, follows:2
                    
                        AN ACT for the Formation of Two New Counties out of the Counties of 
                                Dearborn
                             and Clark.
                        1. Be it enacted by the legislative council and the house of
                            representatives of the Indiana Territory and is hereby enacted by the
                            authority of the same, That from and after the first day of February,
                            One Thousand Eight Hundred and Eleven, all that part of 
                                Dearborn
                             and 
                                Clark counties
                             Which is included in the following boundaries shall form
                            and constitute two new counties, that is to
                            say—"Beginning at the corner of townships number 7
                            and 8 on the line of the state of 
                                Ohio
                            , thence north, until the same arrives at fort Recovery,
                            then from fort Recovery southwardly, with the line of the western
                            boundary of the purchase made at fort 
                                Wayne
                             in the year One Thousand Eight Hundred and Nine, until the
                            same intersects the line of the northern boundary of the purchases made
                            at Grouseland, thence, northwardly, with the line of the last mentioned
                            purchase until the same arrives at a point from which 
                        
                           1 These facts have been called to my
                                    attention by Howard Horton, former 
                                        Wayne County
                                     surveyor, whose grandfather held the same position
                                    for many years.
                        
                           2 From the Acts of the
                                        Assembly of the Indiana Territory Passed at the First
                                        Session of the Third General Assembly of the Said Territory
                                        Begun and Held at the Borough of 
                                            Vincennes
                                        , the Twelfth Day of November A.D. One Thousand
                                        Eight Hundred and Ten, p. 19.
                     
                             a due east and west line will strike
                            the corner of town seven and eight of the aforesaid state of 
                                Ohio
                             line.
                        2. Be it further enacted, That the tract of country included within the
                            aforesaid boundaries, be, and the same is hereby divided into two
                            separate and distinct counties by a line beginning at the corner of
                            townships number eleven and twelve, on the line of the state of 
                                Ohio
                            , and from thence, due west until the same intersects the
                            line, of the western boundary of the before mentioned purchase of fort 
                                Wayne
                            , and that from and after the first day of February, one
                            thousand eight hundred and eleven, the tract of country falling within
                            the southern division thereof shall be known and designated by the name
                            and style of the county of 
                                Franklin
                             and the northern division thereof shall be designated by
                            the name and style of the county 
                                Wayne
                            : ….
                    
            
            A visualization of the boundary lines set forth in the Enabling Act shows that 
                        Ohio
                     was to be the eastern boundary of this county; a line about five
                    miles south of the present 
                        Wayne
                    -Union boundary line was to the the dividing line between 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Franklin
                    ; the Twelve Mile Purchase line was to be the northern and western
                    boundary, running exactly southeast from the 
                        Ohio
                     line to the "Twelve Mile" line, and thence along
                    that line. There were thus included in 
                        Wayne
                     parts of what are now 
                        Randolph
                     and 
                        Jay counties
                    . Of the original boundary lines, the only one which has not been
                    changed and is today as it was in 1811, is the 
                        Ohio
                    -Indiana state line on the east.
            The organization of 
                        Randolph county
                     in 1818 established the present northern boundary of
                            
                  Wayne. Fayette
                was formed from 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Franklin counties
                     in 1819; and in 1821, Harrison township, which, with 
                        Wayne
                     township, constituted all of 
                        Wayne county
                     when it was first organized in 1811, was made part of Union with
                    other territory taken from 
                        Fayette
                     and 
                        Franklin
                    , thus establishing the present southern boundary of 
                        Wayne
                    .3
            
            When 
                        Wayne county
                     became a political unit of the state, along with 
                        Franklin
                    , thereby giving momentous impetus to the development of the entire
                    Whitewater valley and providing the social and political environment for many of
                    the great leaders of the Indiana commonwealth in its formative period, the
                    western boundary of 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Franklin
                    , and the northern 
                  
                     3 So far as can now be ascertained, 
                                Wayne
                             and Harrison were the two original townships of 
                                Wayne county
                            , but our sources of information do not make this absolutely
                            certain.
               
                     boundary of Jefferson, was the Indian
                    frontier in the southeast and eastern portions of the state. The fringe of seven
                    counties north of the Ohio river, with the 
                        Knox
                     boundary lying along the western line of the state, and
                            
                  Wayne, Franklin
               , and 
                        Dearborn
                     extending north on the 
                        Ohio
                     state line, comprised, broadly speaking, the extent to which
                    civilization had encroached upon the wilderness. Virtually two-thirds of the
                    state was to all practical purposes uninhabited, or very sparsely settled.
            The legislative acts whereby 
                        Wayne county
                     lost additional territory besides that surrendered to 
                        Randolph county
                     when that political unit was established in 1818, and also obtained
                    land beyond the western boundary of the original Twelve Mile Purchase line,
                    indicate that the western boundary of 
                        Wayne
                     was the source of considerable perplexity. No changes in the
                    boundary had been made by the territorial legislature. All alterations were
                    pursuant to acts passed by the state legislature subsequent to 1816.
            The first change—after the setting off of 
                        Randolph county
                     which established the northern boundary of 
                        Wayne county
                    — is contained in an act, approved December 28, 1818, and
                    effective, January 1, 1819, which had to do with the establishment of 
                        Fayette county
                    , and helped to shape the southern and southwestern boundary line of 
                        Wayne
                    . The southern boundary of 
                        Wayne
                     at that time ran due east and west, about five miles south of the
                    present line between 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Union counties
                    . The act created a new southern boundary for that portion,
                    beginning one mile south of the present intersection of the southern boundary
                    and the Fort Recovery line, and extending west to the line dividing sections 27
                    and 28, township 15, which became the southwestern point of 
                        Wayne county
                    . The western line then ran north of this intersection until it
                    intercepted the line dividing townships 15 and 16, whence it proceeded west. The
                    remaining part of the western boundary was fixed in the same act by designating
                    that all land east of a line drawn due north of the southeast corner of section
                    34, township 16, until it extended to the 
                        Randolph county
                     line, should be added and made a part of 
                        Wayne county
                    . This line included in 
                        Wayne county
                     a triangular portion of land west of  the Twelve Mile Purchase line, in what is now the
                    northwestern part of the county, and at the same time removed a small triangular
                    strip in township 16. This is the first legislative act that added part of the
                    old Indian country west of the Twelve Mile Purchase to 
                        Wayne county
                     and helps account for part of the present western boundary of the
                    county. Reverting again to the southern boundary, we find that the act left all
                    land east of the Fort Recovery line and south to the original line between 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Franklin
                     intact.
            The act approved January 5, 1821, which provided for the formation of Union
                    county out of the counties of 
                  Franklin, Wayne
               ,
                    and 
                        Fayette
                     established the present boundary between 
                        Wayne
                     and Union, taking from 
                        Wayne
                     the land described in the concluding sentence of the foregoing
                    paragraph. The 
                        Wayne
                    -Union line remained intact from that date. West of the western
                    boundary of Union, the south line of 
                        Wayne
                     remained one mile south of the northwest corner of Union, and the
                    most southern four or five miles of the western boundary also suffered no
                    change. This act also added a strip three miles wide on the western boundary to 
                        Wayne county
                    , by designating that all land east of a north line commencing on
                    the north line of 
                        Fayette county
                    , one mile west of the northwest corner of fractional seotion 4,
                    township 15, range 12, east of the second principal meridian and running north
                    until it intersects the line dividing 
                        Randolph
                     and 
                        Wayne counties
                    , be included in 
                        Wayne county
                    . The effect of this section of the act was to restore to 
                        Wayne county
                     the small triangular strip in the Twelve Mile Purchase in Township
                    16, which was removed by the act effective January 1, 1819, and to push the line
                    three miles west of the line established for that portion of the boundary in the
                    act that was effective on January 1, 1819.
            The legislative act which set off 
                        Henry county
                    , effective June 1, 1822, creates some confusion because of the
                    vague manner in which it designates the beginning point of the boundary in 
                        Wayne county
                    . The act merely says: "Beginning at the southwest corner
                    of 
                        Wayne county
                    ," etc. Considerable legislation followed before this line
                    was finally agreed upon. An act approved January 11, 1823, altered the line to
                    begin at  the southwest corner of section 34,
                    township 16, range 12; thence north to the line dividing townships 16 and 17;
                    thence east to the line dividing sections 33 and 34, and north on it to the 
                        Randolph
                     boundary. It is apparent that the line dividing sections 33 and 34
                    is the same line on which the west boundary proceeded from the beginning point.
                    A line one mile east evidently was meant. By this act 
                        Wayne county
                     lost for one year the territory it had gained in the northwest
                    portion by previous legislative enactments. But this act was repealed in an act
                    approved January 22,1824, which restored the territory that had been removed
                    and, beginning at the southwest corner of section 32, on the line dividing
                    townships 15 and 16, virtually establishing the same line north that had been
                    fixed in the act approved January 5, 1821, as far north as the 
                        Randolph
                     line.
            A subsequent act, approved January 26, 1827, pertaining to the same line, which
                    was passed to establish the eastern line of 
                        Henry county
                    , finally fixes this portion of the west boundary of 
                        Wayne
                     as follows: Beginning at the southwest corner of section 32; thence
                    north to the line dividing townships 16 and 17; thence east to southeast corner
                    of section 32, township 17, range 12, thence north to the northeast corner of
                    section 20, township 18, range 12. By this act, 
                        Wayne county
                     lost a strip one mile wide from the intersection of townships 16
                    and 17, running∗ north to the 
                        Randolph
                     line, but it retained a strip two miles wide in the same portion
                    that had been the subject of the foregoing legislative acts.
            An act relative to county boundaries, approved February 17, 1838, sets out the
                    boundary of 
                        Wayne
                     and adjacent counties, as they are today, and in conformity with
                    the various changes that were made in the acts that have been reviewed in the
                    foregoing. With this enactment ends the list of various legislative acts that
                    have to do with the formation of the boundary of 
                        Wayne county
                     as one of the political units of the state.
            THE TOWNSHIPS OF 
                        WAYNE COUNTY
                    
            
            It is surprising that records of the formation of townships in 
                        Wayne county
                    , and apparently in many other counties in Indiana, are almost
                    entirely lacking, at least for the early days.  The few accepted statements about early townships in 
                        Wayne county
                     are not free from error; all of the county histories, for instance,
                    give the date of the formation of Harrison township as 1843; the correct date is
                    1844. The difficulty of receiving this sort of information furnishes perhaps
                    both an explanation of its absence in county histories and a justification for
                    its publication here.
            The barrier to settlement which the Indian land west of the Twelve Mile Purchase
                    line presented, as well as the modifications of the northern, southern and
                    western boundary lines of 
                        Wayne county
                     by legislative enactment, are reflected in the formation of and
                    subsequent changes in the lines of the townships of the county. The
                    configuration of the townships in 
                        Wayne county
                     is exceedingly kaleidoscopic, perhaps more so than in any county of
                    the state. 
                        Washington
                    , Dalton and 
                        Franklin
                     are the only townships that approximate a regular contour. The
                    shapes of the other townships are exceedingly irregular, owing to a disposition
                    of the county commissioners, it would seem, to grant the request of residents
                    for the creation of new townships out of existing ones, and the later addition
                    to, or subtraction of, strips of territory from adjacent townships. Of the six
                    which were established in 1817 not a single township has preserved its original
                    form or area.
            It is apparent from one or two references in the records of the commissioners
                    between 1812 and 1817 that the county originally was divided into two districts
                    or townships, but the boundaries of these units are obscure. The early county
                    records fail to give them, and none of the histories of early 
                        Wayne county
                     or 
                        Richmond
                     sets them out. 
                        Wayne
                     was one and Harrison is supposed to have been the other. It is
                    assumed that the territory south of the present 
                        Wayne
                    -Union line probably constituted one district, and the territory
                    north of this was comprised in the other. The first records of a
                    commissioner's court date from 1812. These records, both in the
                    original, and in a typewritten form, are preserved in the
                    commissioner's court in 
                        Richmond
                    . Records prior to 1812 either were lost or destroyed in the
                    transfer of county property from 
                        Salisbury
                     to 
                        Centerville
                    , and from there to 
                        Richmond
                    .
            Following the admission of the state into the Union in  1816, 
                        Wayne county
                     was divided into six townships by the commissioners, February 10,
                    1817. These six townships comprised all the territory in original 
                        Wayne county
                     as formed by the legislative act passed in 1810, including the land
                    north from the original 
                        Franklin
                    -
                        Wayne
                     line (five miles south of the present 
                        Wayne
                    -Union boundary) and extending north to where the line of the Twelve
                    Mile Purchase turned sharply to the east toward Fort Recovery, 
                        Ohio
                    . The original townships were 
                  Washington, Harrison,
                            Jackson, Wayne, New
                    Garden
                and Perry.
            The six units had the following boundaries:
            
               
                        Washington
                    —The boundary began at a stake one mile east of the range
                    line dividing ranges 12 and 13, east of the principal meridian, on the county
                    line between the counties of 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Franklin
                    ; running thence north seven miles to the corner between sections 7
                    and 18; thence west to the Indian boundary; thence with same to the corner of 
                        Franklin county
                    , thence to the beginning.
            Harrison—The boundary began at the beginning of the corner of 
                        Washington
                     township, and turning with the line of that township to the corner
                    of the same; thence east to the state line; thence south to the corner of 
                        Franklin county
                    ; thence west to the beginning.
            Jackson—The boundary began at the north corner of 
                        Washington
                     township; thence west with the line of the same to the Indian
                    boundary; thence with said line northwardly ten miles to the corner dividing
                    fractional sections 23 and 26; thence east along the section line to the corner
                    of sections 29, 30, 31, and 32, and thence to the place of beginning.
            
               
                        Wayne
                    —the boundary began at the corner between the townships
                    of 
                        Washington
                    , Harrison and Jackson, running thence north ten miles to the
                    northwest corner of Jackson township; thence east to the state line; thence
                    south with the said line to the corner of Harrison township, and thence west
                    with the line of said township to the place of beginning.
            
               
                        New Garden
                    —The boundary began at the corner of Jackson  and 
                        Wayne
                     townships on the Perry township line, running thence east with the
                    line of 
                        Wayne
                     township to the state line; thence north to the extreme settlements
                    of 
                        Wayne county
                    ; thence west to the northeast corner of Perry township; thence with
                    the line of the same to the place of beginning.
            Perry—The boundary began with the northwest corner of 
                        Wayne
                     township, running two miles east to the corner between sections 21
                    and 28; thence north to the extreme settlements in 
                        Wayne county
                    ; thence west to the Indian boundary; thence south with said
                    boundary to the corner of Jackson township, and thence east to the place of
                    beginning.
            The Twelve Mile Purchase line became the western boundary of 
                        Washington
                    , Jackson and Perry townships, while Harrison, Wayne and New Garden
                    extended along the 
                        Ohio
                     boundary in the original municipal divisions.
            
               
                        Washington
                     township in the southwestern corner extended as far north in
                    present 
                        Wayne county
                     as a line about two miles south of the present town of 
                        Milton
                    , the same line being the northern boundary of Harrison township in
                    the southeast. By the formation of 
                        Fayette county
                     in 1819, 
                        Wayne county
                     later lost the greater part of original 
                        Washington
                     township, although the curtailed township preserved its name in the
                    re-districting that followed. The new boundary of 
                        Washington
                     then became the following: Beginning at the southeast corner of
                    section 30, thence north three miles to the northeast corner of section 18;
                    thence west three miles to the northeast corner of section 15; thence north
                    three miles to the northeast corner of section 34; thence west to the boundary
                    between sections 27 and 34; thence southerly to the corner of 
                        Fayette county
                    ; thence to the beginning.
            The changes made in 
                        Wayne county
                     by the formation of 
                        Fayette county
                     affected 
                        Washington
                     township most of all the townships. It lost everything south of the
                    present 
                        Wayne
                    -
                        Fayette
                     line, but its original northern boundary was moved three miles
                    north, the territory being taken from Jackson township. Part of its eastern
                    boundary, however, still remained in what is now a portion of Abington township.
            The greater portion of original Harrison township was lost to 
                        Union county
                     in 1819. With it went the name for the designation  of the portion of its territory which remained in 
                        Wayne county
                     and is now part of 
                  Boston, Wayne
                and
                    Abington townships; later (1844) a new township in northwestern 
                        Wayne county
                     was organized and given the name of Harrison.
            The 1817 allocation by the commissioners gave to Jackson and 
                        Wayne
                     townships a straight east and west line for a southern boundary,
                    being the northern boundary line of 
                        Washington
                     and Harrison. The north boundary of Jackson and 
                        Wayne
                     was a line that originally ran from what is now the southern
                    boundary of the town of 
                        Hagerstown
                    , and the principal east and west thoroughfare through Webster. The
                    two townships embraced then about one-third of the territory of 
                        Wayne county
                    .
            The eastern boundary of Perry township ran north from a point on the north
                    boundary of 
                        Wayne
                     and Jackson townships, about two miles east of the west boundary
                    line of 
                        Wayne
                     township. 
                        New Garden
                     township embraced the land east of the Perry line to the 
                        Ohio
                     state boundary.
            Out of these six original townships and from land west of the Twelve Mile
                    Purchase line subsequently were organized nine additional townships.
            In August, 1817, Center township was organized. The commissioners took three
                    miles off the west boundary of 
                        Wayne
                     township and three off the east boundary of Jackson for this
                    purpose, leaving the original north and south boundaries as they were. Its
                    original boundary was: Beginning at the southeast corner of fractional section
                    No. 26, township 13, range 2; running thence north ten miles to the northeast
                    corner of section 27, township 17, range 14; thence west six miles to the
                    northwest corner of section 26, township 17, range 13; thence south ten miles to
                    the southwest corner of section 11, township 15, range 13, thence east six miles
                    to the beginning. In 1820 the following addition was made: Beginning at the
                    northwest corner of fractional section 26; running thence east to the old
                    boundary; thence south to the range line; thence down said line to the southeast
                    corner of section 25, township 14, range 1; thence west to the old boundary;
                    thence south to the south line of Center township. This addition to the eastern
                         boundary of Center took a strip of a
                    mile from 
                        Wayne
                     township.
            The setting off of 
                        Randolph county
                     in 1818, establishing the present north boundary of 
                        Wayne county
                    , automatically gave to Perry and 
                        New Garden
                     townships a permanent north line, although prior to that time their
                    jurisdiction extended to "the extreme settlements of 
                        Wayne county
                    ."
            Green was formed out of Perry and 
                        New Garden
                     townships in 1821 with the following boundary: On the east by 
                        New Garden
                     township; north by 
                        Randolph county
                    ; south by the line of Center and Jackson townships and on the west
                    by the in 1821 with the following boundary: On the east by New line between
                    Perry and Green townships. One range of sections on the east side was taken from 
                        New Garden
                     township to make this boundary.
            The territory of Perry and Jackson suffered further losses by the creation of 
                        Clay
                     township in 1831, which lies within the original Twelve Mile
                    Purchase. Its boundary was designated: Beginning at the half mile stake in the
                    south line of section 18, township 17, range 14; thence west four miles to the
                    half mile stake of section 16, township 17, range 13; thence south through the
                    center of sections 21, 28, and 33, to the half mile stake of section 33 on the
                    township line dividing townships 16 and 17; thence east four miles on said
                    township line to the half mile stake on the south line of section 31, township
                    17, range 14; thence north through the center of sections 31, 30 and 19 to the
                    place of beginning.
            The irregular contour of the boundary suffered little improvement in 1839 when
                    the commissioners ordered that section 15 of Green township be attached to 
                        Clay
                    ; section 16 of Perry be attached to 
                        Clay
                    ; section 8 of Jefferson (organized in 1834) be attached to Perry,
                    and sections 17, 20, 29, and 32 of Jefferson be attached to 
                        Clay
                    . The commissioner's records show another addition to 
                        Clay
                     township in 1844 when the board ordered that section 3 of township
                    16, range 13, now a part of Center township and the east half of section 4 of
                    said township, range 13 and now a part of Jackson township, be attached to 
                        Clay
                     township.
            Land west of the Twelve Mile Purchase was included in  the formation of Jefferson township, which was
                    carved mostly out of Perry and Jackson in 1834. Its boundary follows: Beginning
                    at the northeast corner of section 8, township 17 of range 13; thence running
                    west on the section line to the northwest corner of section 9, township 17 of
                    range 12; thence south with the 
                        Henry county
                     line to the southwest corner of section 33, township 17 of range
                    12; thence east along the line dividing townships 16 and 17 to the southeast
                    corner of section 32, township 17, range 13; thence north with the section line
                    to the place of beginning.
            
               
                        New Garden
                     township, lying along the 
                        Ohio
                     line, suffered a loss of its eastern territory in 1834 when 
                        Franklin
                     was formed out of it, and a small portion taken from 
                        Wayne
                     township. The description of 
                        Franklin
                     follows: Beginning at the northeast corner of 
                        Wayne county
                     and running west on the line of said county to the road leading
                    from 
                        Richmond
                     to 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ; thence south with said road to the 
                        Wayne
                     township line; thence east with said line to the state line; thence
                    north with said state line to the place of beginning.
            In 1843, another addition was made to 
                        Franklin
                     township at the expense of 
                        New Garden
                    , when the county commissioners ordered that sections 4, 9, 16, and
                    parts of 27, 28, and 23 of township 15, range 1, and section 4, township 14,
                    range 1, parts of which hitherto belonged to 
                        New Garden
                     be stricken therefrom and added to 
                        Franklin
                     township.
            Although 
                        Wayne
                     township's area had been reduced since the original
                    allotment in 1817 by the formation of townships, it still was by far the largest
                    single municipal unit in the county and it was not until the formation of 
                        Boston
                     township in 1835 and Abington in 1837 that its territory was
                    reduced to its present area. The first white settlers in the present area of 
                        Wayne county
                     came to these two townships. 
                        Boston
                     township originally was part of 
                        Wayne
                    , and Abington part of 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Washington
                     townships.
            The formation of 
                        Boston
                     township in 1835 took from 
                        Wayne
                     township that portion of original Harrison township (1817) which
                    was north of the Union-
                        Wayne county
                     line, established by the legislative act of January 5, 1821. Its
                    boundary follows: Beginning on the 
                        Ohio
                     state line at the northeast corner  of section 25, township 13, range 1 west; running
                    thence six miles west to the Center township line; thence south three miles to
                    the Union county line; thence east along said line to the 
                        Ohio
                     state line; thence north along the state line to the place of
                    beginning.
            Abington was given the following boundary: Beginning at the southeast corner of
                    section 1, township 12, range 2 west; running thence north three miles to the
                    northeast corner of section 25, township 13, range 2 west; thence west along the
                    section lines to the northwest corner of section 11, township 15, range 14 east;
                    thence south to the line dividing 
                        Wayne
                     and 
                        Fayette counties
                    ; thence east with said line one mile; thence north one mile, thence
                    east with the line dividing 
                  Fayette,
                            Union
                and 
                        Wayne counties
                     to the place of beginning.
            Reference has been made in the foregoing to the original Harrison township which
                    may have been the name of one of the two original municipal units of 
                        Wayne county
                     prior to the division into six townships made by the commissioners
                    February 10, 1817. The Harrison township established by the commissioners on
                    that date was lost to 
                        Union county
                     in 1819 when that political unit was established by legislative
                    enactment.
            Not until June 9, 1844 did a Harrison township again appear among the units of 
                        Wayne county
                     and then territories of Jefferson, Jackson, Clay and Center
                    townships were drawn on by the commissioners in the formation of the Harrison
                    township that exists today. It is interesting to note that all the 
                        Wayne county
                     histories and all references to Harrison township's
                    formation that have appeared in print give an erroneous date of 1843.
            Careful investigation of the 
                        Wayne county
                     records, however, disclosed that it was not until one year later,
                    June 9, 1844, that the commissioners made the following entry in their records:
                        
                        It is ordered by the board that a township be organized out of the
                            territories of Jefferson, Jackson, Clay and Center to be composed of the
                            following sections, viz 3:1 and 32 of township 17, range 13; section 1,
                            12, and 13 of town 16, range 12 and the west half of section 4 and
                            sections 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10, 15, 16, 17, 18, 19, 20, 21, 28, 29 of town
                            16, range 13, to be called Harrison township.
                    
            
            
            The area of Dalton township lies west of the west boundary of the Twelve Mile
                    Purchase, with the exception of a narrow triangular strip in the southeastern
                    section. Originally the entire area of Dalton was part of Perry, but in 1847 it
                    was set off with the following boundary: Commencing at the northwest corner of 
                        Wayne county
                    ; thence east to the range line between townships 12 and 13; thence
                    south with said range line to the north line of Jefferson township; thence west
                    to the county line; thence north to the place of beginning.
            Center, 
                        Wayne
                    , Green and 
                        New Garden
                     townships contributed further territory to the formation of a new
                    township in 1870 when Webster township was set off with the following
                    description: Beginning at the northwest corner of the southwest quarter of
                    section 17, township 17, range 14, east, in Green township; running thence south
                    on the section line to the southwest corner of section 32, township 17, range 14
                    east in Center township; thence east on the section line to the southeast corner
                    of the southwest quarter of section 18, town 14, range 1, west in 
                        Wayne
                     township; thence north to the half section line dividing section
                    13, township 17, range 14 east in 
                        New Garden
                     township; thence west to the place of beginning in Green township.
            In the formation of this township, Center gave about six square miles, Green
                    three, 
                        New Garden
                     three and three-eights and 
                        Wayne
                     two and one-half.
            No changes have been made in the township boundaries since 1870.
         
         
         
            Document
            LETTER OF JUDGE JOHN
                        LAW, VINCENNES, 1835
            [Contributed by Esther U. McNitt, Indiana State Library]
            The following fragment of a letter from Judge John Law, the well known historian
                    of 
                        Vincennes
                    , to his brother, William H. Law, of 
                  Norwich, Connecticut
               , was recently acquired at
                            
                  Providence, Rhode Island
               , by the State Library.
                    Judge Law was born, 1796, in New 
                  London, Connecticut
               , graduated at Yale College, studied law, and
                    was admitted to the bar in 
                        Connecticut
                    . He left that state in 1817 and settled in 
                        Vincennes
                    . One of his most famous cases there was the prosecution of the
                    claim of Francis Vigo against the government of the 
                        United States
                     for advances made to George Rogers Clark. Long delayed justice was
                    finally obtained and the claim was paid in 1877, forty-two years after the death
                    of Vigo and four years after the death of Judge Law.
            The letter here published was included in a bundle with other material addressed
                    by Judge Law to his brother, William Law, at 
                        Norwich
                    . It is incomplete, the latter part of it having become separated
                    from the double sheet acquired by the State Library.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              VINCENNES
                           
                                    AUGUST 19th 1835
                                
                        DEAR WILLIAM
                        Yours was duly received and although there is in your
                                    correspondence sometimes a "longum
                                    intervallum" yet I take the favor kindly whenever you
                                    feel disposed to write I was at 
                                        Chicago
                                     during the first week of the land sales and in the
                                    midst of all the "speculation" going on, and
                                    never since the "South Sea bubble" do I
                                    believe there has been a greater one. Lots which in 1830 sold
                                    for $35 $50 and $60 a piece
                                    sold from ten to fifteen thousand Every foot of land
                                    'offered was sold. —Arthur and Fredk Bronson
                                    sons of old Isaac of 
                                        Connecticut
                                     came out last fall and purchased forty acres of
                                    land on the west side of the Chicago River
                                    (the  town is principally
                                    built on the east) for twenty thousand dollars the first of
                                    April they sold for $100,000 and while I was there
                                    the company to whom they sold laid it out in lots, sold
                                    $175,000 and retained about 1/a the lots But it is
                                        entirely overrated depend on it. And a
                                    glance at the map will show you it is so. The great outlet from
                                    the lakes to the Ohio or
                                        Mississippi Rivers will be from the "Maumee Bay" and will be in
                                    one or two ways towit from the point where the "
                                        Wabash
                                     and 
                                        Erie
                                     Canal" now in rapid progress (and thirty
                                    miles of which in our state is completed towit from 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                     to 
                                        Huntington
                                    —the other under contract with about 1000
                                    laborers employed) strikes the 
                                        Wabash
                                     with a Rail Road running through the heart of 
                                        Illinois
                                     to 
                                        Alton
                                     or 
                                        St. Louis
                                    —or down the 
                                        Wabash
                                     and with the Rail Road to 
                                        
                                            Evansville
                                        
                                     on the 
                                        Ohio
                                    . The Rail Road to 
                                        Evansville
                                     is now surveyed and the stock will be taken next
                                    year. The Rail Road to 
                                        Alton
                                     will be probably authorized by the Legislature of 
                                        Illinois
                                     this winter. The points there are "where
                                    our Canal terminates in the Maumee Bay"—This will be the greatest. Secondly where the
                                    Canal strikes the 
                                        Wabash
                                     intersecting with the Rail Road. 3dly 
                                        Alton
                                     in 
                                        Illinois
                                     and 4th 
                                        Evansville
                                     in this state. A view of the map of 
                                        Ohio
                                        Indiana
                                     and 
                                        Illinois
                                     will show you at once the eligibility of these
                                    positions and their future importance. For instance the 
                                        Wabash
                                     from this point to its mouth is obstructed with
                                    falls. Its distance water one hundred and fifty
                                    miles—to 
                                        Evansville
                                     by land is 55 miles by the survey of the road. It
                                    is the point where all goods and passengers destined to the 
                                        Wabash
                                     either from the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     or 
                                        Ohio
                                     land in low stage of the 
                                        Wabash
                                     say eight months in the year. You may judge of its
                                    importance as to trade when I inform you that 1000 flat boats
                                    went out of our river destined for the lower market this spring
                                    probable value $1000000 and that as many as five
                                    hundred passengers have landed in one week at this point to say
                                    nothing of goods coming down the 
                                        Ohio
                                     from the 
                              Eastern
                                            cities. New
                                            York
                            Phila 
                                        Baltimore
                                    . as well as 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     Cincinati, 
                                        Louisville
                                     and all of which as well as those from 
                                        New Orleans
                                     destined for any point on the 
                                        Wabash
                                     as high as 
                                        Logansport
                                     are landed and waggoned across here.
                        The point where our Canal will terminate in Maumee Bay should 
                                        Ohio
                                     succeed in her contest with 
                                        Michigan
                                     (and who shall have jurisdiction over the bay is
                                    now the only contest between them) will be the most important point in the. West. It will be the outlet to 
                                        New York
                                     for all the trade of 
                                        Indiana
                                        Illinois
                                     (or at least the northern portion of our state and
                                    along the Valley of the 
                                        Wabash
                                    ) probably of 
                                        Missouri
                                     and the whole South Western region—for
                                    instance a rail road from 
                                        Alton
                                     to the 
                                        Wabash
                                     which will surely be completed in
                                    a few years must give it, or even the completion of the Route to 
                                        Evansville
                                     an advantage over any other point on the Lake.
                                    (Vide map and examining the situation of the country. See the
                                        points—
                                        
                                            Toledo
                                        
                                     on Maumee—
                                        
                                            Lafayette
                                        
                                     on 
                                        Wabash
                                    
                                    
                                        
                                            Evansville
                                        
                                     on 
                                        Ohio
                                    —Draw a strait line on the map from
                                    Maumee Bay to 
                                        St. Louis
                                     or 
                                        Alton
                                    —and you will understand it better) You
                                    will see the great advantages of this point, in two days sail of
                                    Buffaloe and  the Key of the whole west (provided the Canal
                                    there terminates and 
                                        Ohio
                                     has jurisdiction) Look along the map again down the valley of the 
                                        
                                            Wabash
                                        
                                     the richest country on the face of the
                                    globe—rapidly filling up—come as far as
                                    this place—then run your rule across the map to 
                                        Evansville
                                     and recollect that this whole country, the western
                                    part of Indiana and the Eastern part of 
                                        Illinois
                                    , are to be dependent on these outlets for their
                                    produce, and their goods, and you can form some idea of it. What
                                    man of any prudence wishing goods or shipping produce at 
                                        St. Louis
                                     from or to the Eastern market, will go up the
                                        Illinois river along the Canal (even if
                                    completed and it will not be soon nor do I believe from the
                                    nature of the country it can be) to 
                                        Chicago
                                    , thence through Lakes 
                                        Michigan
                                     Huron St Clair and Erie to Maumee Bay, 1000 miles
                                    of dangerous lake navigation, when on a rail road in five days
                                    with it, and our canal, he can arrive at the same point (the
                                    Bay) and within two days sail of Buffaloe—one
                                    fortnight earlier in the Spring, and one fortnight later in the
                                    fall (the difference in navigation between 
                                        Erie
                                     and the upper Lakes) The Idea is preposterous and
                                    the wants and wealth of the
                                    Country will force the measure through—The Eastern
                                    people are beginning now to see the importance of this section
                                    of Country. Ellsworth of the patent office from 
                                        Connecticut
                                     and some other gentlemen associated with him have
                                    made large purchases this Spring at 
                                        Lafayette
                                     and other points above, along the line of the
                                    Canal—and I do not believe in the whole west a better
                                    speculation can be made than purchasing now,
                                    either at 
                                        Toledo
                                     or in its vicinity, along the line of the Canal, or
                                    at 
                                        Evansville
                                     on the 
                                        Ohio
                                    , or indeed anywhere from the Maumee Bay to the
                                    point on the 
                                        Wabash
                                     where the Canal strikes it, and across to the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     on the contemplated route for a Rail Road. If I had
                                    millions at the present prices I would not
                                    invest a dollar at 
                                        
                                            Chicago
                                        
                                     or in its vicinity. Lots are now held higher there than
                                    they can be sold for in twenty years to come. Such at least is
                                    my opinion and I have been over all the ground there both along
                                    the Lake and in the interior, and I am confident any intelligent
                                    man who will look at the map, and view the Country with
                                    reference to its present…. [Marginal Notes:] Mr.
                                    Ewing wanted much to take Richard on with him but his mother
                                    thought he was too young. We have a fine school here. Sarah is
                                    likely soon to add to our stock of "legal
                                    intelligencies." The west is rich in products of all
                                    kinds….
                        Your name sake is one of the finest lads you ever saw. Tall
                                    active healthy and intelligent and will do honor to any
                                    parentage or any Godfather. You shall see him some day and tell
                                    Miss E. he will make a most noble cousin gallant.
                        
                                    [JOHN LAW]
                                
                     
                  
               
                
         
         
         
            Reviews
            
               American Presidents; their Individualities and their
                        Contributions to American Progress by THOMAS F. MORAN, 
                        New York
                    , Crowell Co., 1928, pp. 318, $2.00.
            This is a revised and considerably enlarged edition of the book published under
                    the same title in 1917. The volume is a series of character portraits and an
                    evaluation of the services of the Presidents of the 
                        United States
                     from 1789 to the present time. Dr. Moran has divided his subject
                    into five chapters: From 
                        Washington
                     to Jackson; From Jackson to 
                        Lincoln
                    ; From 
                        Lincoln
                     to Coolidge; Why Great Men are Not Chosen Presidents; and The
                    Ethics of the Presidential Campaign. With an impartial, keen analysis and at
                    times even a humorous touch, the outstanding characteristics of each president,
                    his strength as well as his weaknesses, are briefly described. He appears not
                    only as an individual, but in relation to his contemporaries and to the period
                    in which he lived. In the chapter, "Why Great Men Are Not Chosen
                    Presidents," are brief comments on some thirteen prominent men, such as
                    Benjamin 
                        Franklin
                    , Alexander 
                        Hamilton
                    , Thaddeus Stevens, John Hay and Elihu Root, who might have made
                    good presidential timber, but who for one reason or other were not
                    "available." The author admits that the best talent of the
                    nation is not finding its way into politics, but in spite of the haphazard way
                    in which the presidents have been selected thinks the results on the whole are
                    not disquieting. After describing in his last chapter the bombastic presidential
                    campaigns of the past, he suggests as helpful to a more careful selection of the
                    presidents the doing away with such campaigns; an amendment to the Constitution,
                    so as to provide for a single term of six years for the President; a
                    reconstruction of the national nominating conventions on a more equitable and
                    truly representative basis; a change in the powers of the National Committee;
                    the enactment  of definite presidential
                    primary laws in all the states; and definite and constructive party programs.
                    The author's independent judgment, his sense of proportion, his
                    critical yet kindly comments, and the clear, direct style make a very
                    interesting book for the general reader, and one which is suggestive to the
                    student. The book is illustrated by portraits of some of the more important
                    personages discussed and has a good index.
            ESTHER U. MCNITT.
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Cass County
                         in the World War. Edited by ORA E. COX. Printed at
                            
                  Logansport, Indiana
               , under direction of the 
                        Cass County
                     Historical Society, 1928. Pp. 383. $13.50.
            This stout quarto volume, made possible by recent appropriation by the
                    Commissioners of 
                        Cass County
                    , is an unusually complete and carefully compiled account of the
                    activities of an 
                        Indiana county
                     during the World War. A table of contents, unfortunately omitted,
                    would reveal that practically all the information which could well be expected
                    in such a book has been included. It is especially complete, as such a book
                    should be, in its lists of persons who served in the armed forces of the nation.
                    Lists are given of the June, 1917, draft and the June, 1918, draft in addition
                    to the full army and navy records, in alphabetical order, compiled from the
                    files of the Adjutant General of Indiana and from local records. The citations
                    received by 
                        Cass County
                     citizens and the list of those who lost their lives in the war are
                    given together; it would have been a more convenient arrangement to have had
                    separate lists. No illustrations are included, but the reviewer hardly knows
                    whether to class this as an omission or as a virtue, since the inevitable
                    tendency in such publications is to include pictures of little historical
                    significance. Special commendation should be given for the choice of the paper
                    upon which the book is printed; it is of good appearance and promises more
                    durability than most publications of the present time.
         
      
   
