
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 75, Issue 4, pages 301-378. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:75+issue:4+year:1979&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Introduction:
            
               
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     and 
                        Muncie
                    
            
            A half century ago Robert and Helen Lynd presented 
                  
                            Middletown
                        : A Study in American Culture (
                        New York
                    , 1929). Reviewing it in the American Mercury, Henry L. Mencken
                    described the book as "one of the richest and most valuable documents ever concocted by
                    American sociologists."1 For once Mencken was right. 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     and its sequel, 
                  
                            Middletown
                         in Transition: A Study in Cultural Conflicts (
                        New York
                    , 1937), became classics not only in the field of sociology but in history as well,
                    especially as scholars became more interested in social history. Hardly an American history textbook
                    is published today that does not draw on the Lynds' studies for illustrations and
                    generalizations regarding "typical" family and community life in the 1920s and
                    1930s.
            The Lynds' 
                        Middletown
                     was, of course, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, although, as Richard Jensen's essay in this issue suggests, 
                        Muncie
                     may not have been the wisest choice of a typical American community. Some of 
                        Muncie
                    's citizens agreed, or at least preferred that the Lynds had settled elsewhere.
                    These social scientists, they suggested, did not fully understand the real 
                        Muncie
                    ,2 a criticism partly supported by Carrolyle M. Frank's
                    essay below. But whether the Lynds were right or wrong in their questions, themes, or
                    interpretations, their two 
                        Middletown
                     books provide later generations with the fullest and most thought provoking studies of
                    an Indiana community in the twentieth century. And the work of understanding 
                        Muncie
                     goes on, as the essay by Theodore Caplow exemplifies. The 
                  
                     1 H. L. Mencken, "A City in Moronia," American Mercury, XVI (Marc. 1929), 379.
                  
                     2 For reaction to the Lynds' work among 
                                Muncie
                             residents see Heath Bowman, Hoosier (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1941), 275–76; and C. Walter McCarty, ed., Indiana
                                Today (n.p., 1942), 46–47.
               
                    
                    
                  ROBERT S. LYND AND HELEN MERRILL LYND Ca. 1930
               
                    
                  Photos courtesy of Helen Merrill Lynd.
                contents of this issue of the Indiana Magazine of History are indicative
                    of the many and varied ways of studying both the past and present of one of Indiana's most
                    widely known cities.3
            
            
               
                  3 The editors wish to acknowledge the assistance of Dwight W. Hoover in
                        planning this issue.
            
         
         
         
            The Lynds Revisited
            
                    Richard Jensen
                    ∗
                
            
               
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                    
               1 was a stunning success. True, America was accustomed to success in 1929,
                    but when the printers were called on six times to rush more copies, the publishers knew this was not
                    a typical sociological treatise. To H. L. Mencken reviewing the book in American
                        Mercury this "city in Moronia" was scientific proof of the silliness and
                    self-delusion of the booboisie.2 Sinclair Lewis had already exposed the
                    shallowness of babbittry and main street in general; Thorstein Veblen had for decades condemned the
                    pecuniary business culture. Now Robert and Helen Lynd showed in incredible detail how that culture
                    actually worked in the life of typical people in a typical city. Muckracking exposes of big bosses
                    and robber barons had gone out of style by 1929, but here was an expose of the inner flaws of
                    American society itself.
            
               
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     can be approached on several levels. It was, and remains, an astonishingly informative
                    description of everyday life in a small city. Like Main Street it attained
                    versimilitude by precise description of routine behavior and by close rendering of actual
                    conversations. 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                    , however, was vastly more comprehensive in scope. The Lynds followed the lead of cultural
                    anthropologists who tried to encompass the whole of a primitive society under the six rubrics of
                    getting a living, making a home, training the young, using leisure, engaging in religious practices,
                    and engaging in community activities.3
            
            
               
                  ∗ Richard Jensen is professor of history and sociology,
                        University of 
                     Illinois, Chicago
                  , and director of the Family and Community
                        History Center of the Newberry Library, 
                            Chicago
                        .
               
                  1 Robert S. Lynd and Helen Merrill Lynd, 
                     
                                Middletown
                            : A Study in American Culture (
                            New York
                        , 1929).
               
                  2 H. L. Mencken, "A City in Moronia," American Mercury, XVI (March, 1929), 379–81.
               
                  3 The scheme was borrowed explicitly from W. H. R. Rivers, Social Organization (
                            New York
                        , 1924).
            
            
            Besides their conceptual outline, the Lynds borrowed the technique of participant observation. Five
                    staff investigators spent fifty months in 
                        Muncie
                    , attending meetings of all sorts, talking with expert informants and
                    "typical" men and women. Their job was to discover what people did, why they
                    thought they did it, and how all the activity reflected the mainsprings of American culture. The
                    anthropological tone of the final report treated middle America as an ethnologist would treat an
                    aboriginal tribe. Thus the Lynds contrasted the superficiality of 
                        Muncie
                    's art clubs with parallel behavior among the Todas.4 This
                    style produced not only a detached scientific tone to the book but also allowed cosmopolitan readers
                    to remove themselves from the parochialism of the objects of study. 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     thereby distinguished itself from the hundreds of social surveys of American communities that
                    had already been published. Those surveys reflected the spirit of uplift of the Progressive era and
                    were directed primarily at opinion leaders in the community itself.5 The Lynds,
                    in sharp contrast, carefully announced that 
                        Muncie
                     had not been consulted about the project beforehand and had contributed nothing to its
                        financing.6 There were no "recommendations for civic
                    action" appended.
            The methodological innovations of 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     should not be exaggerated. Most of the material came from documentary analysis and
                    standardized questionnaires of the sort that had already been highly developed. The agency that
                    sponsored the study, 
                        New York
                    's Institute of Social and Religious Research, an offshoot of Interchurch World
                    Movement and, before that, the Presbyterian Board of Home Missions, was simultaneously sponsoring
                    much more technically sophisticated quantitative studies of the changing place of religion in
                    American society.7
            
            Urban sociologists, perhaps jealous of 
                  
                            Middletown
                        's popularity, were later wont to criticize the Lynds as
                    untheoretical. 
                  
                     4 Lynd and Lynd, 
                                
                                    Middletown
                                
                            , 249.
                  
                     5 Allen Eaton and 
                                Shelby
                             Harrison, A Bibliography of Social Surveys (
                                New York
                            , 1930), listed 2775 titles or projects completed before 
                                
                                    Middletown
                                
                             appeared. For a good review of pioneer efforts and techniques, see Pauline Young, Scientific Social Surveys and Research (1st ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1939).
                  
                     6 Lynd and Lynd, 
                                
                                    Middletown
                                
                            , 7.
                  
                     7 See H. Paul Douglass, How to Study the City Church (
                                Garden City
                            , N.Y., 1928); H. Paul Douglass, 1000 City Churches (
                                New York
                            , 1924); and C. Luther Fry, Diagnosing the Rural Church (
                                New York
                            , 1924). The latter study was a Ph.D. dissertation at 
                                Columbia
                            's sociology department, supervised by 
                                Franklin
                             Giddings. Fry worked with statisticians at 
                                Iowa
                             State College and 
                                Columbia
                             to develop his techniques. The state of the art was well represented by F.
                            Stuart Chapin, Field Work and Social Research (
                                New York
                            , 1920). John Madge's excellent discussion of the Lynds' work
                            exaggerates their originality. John Madge, The Origins of Scientific
                            Sociology (
                                New York
                            , 1962), ch. 5.
               
                     The 
                        Chicago
                     school of sociology, in particular, largely ignored the book in their quest for a hard
                    science of society.8 In fact the Lynds did have a theoretical
                    perspective—one too broad for the taste of most sociologists and too far ahead of its
                    time to be properly appreciated. Their overarching concern was how the process of industrialization
                    had transformed the values and personalities of Americans. Modernization—as scholars call
                    it now—is a central concern of current social science and history. The Lynds were the
                    first American scholars to explore the impact of modernization on all aspects of everyday life.
                    Those cosmopolitan readers who had an unquestioning faith in modernity and laughed at the 
                        Middletown
                     folk who could not comprehend or cope with the changes about them missed the
                    significance of modernization. Apparently the Lynds, their own interests shifting, eventually lost
                    interest in the theme too.9
            
            The Lynds' model of modernization involved the shift from a sleepy, rural, preindustrial
                    organic society to a pecuniary culture dominated by the interests of business. The engine of change
                    was high speed machine technology. In classical Marxist fashion, the Lynds assumed that personality
                    and culture were determined by material or economic causes. The intensive study of a typical
                    American city transformed by new industry would, therefore, present a case study of the impact of
                        modernization.10
            
            The modernization model determined the choice of cities to study. They wanted a place that had
                    experienced rapid growth based on "an industrial culture with modern high-speed machine
                        production."11 To be perfectly "typical" of
                    American life, it should be self-contained and in the Midwest. It could not be 
                  
                     8 Louis Wirth, "Meditations on 
                                Middletown
                             in Transition," and Malcolm Willey, "Selected Notes and
                            Observations on the Lynds' ‘
                                Middletown
                             in Transition,’" in Box 51, folder 9, and Box 55, folder 8,
                            Louis Wirth Papers (University of 
                                Chicago
                             Library). James T. Carey, Sociology and Public Affairs: The 
                                    Chicago
                                 School (
                                Beverly Hills
                            , Calif., 1975), 161, shows that 
                                Chicago
                             graduate students largely ignored the Lynds.
                  
                     9 Robert S. Lynd and Helen Merrill Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition: A Study in Cultural Conflicts (
                                New York
                            , 1937), was originally going to be a one or two chapter addendum; there was no
                            plan for another full length book, let alone a full length study. The research on the second
                            volume, consequently, took only a tenth the time of the first. The theme of the second book
                            was the need for centralized planning to overcome the chaos wrought by the Depression.
                  
                     10 The Lynds became more radical in the 1930s; in 1928 they apparently
                            had not read Marx, though Marxist ideas flourished in the political atmosphere Robert Lynd
                            was familiar with. Madge, Scientific Sociology, 130; Richard Pells, Radical Visions and American Dreams (
                                New York
                            , 1973). The Lynds did cite radical scholars Thorstein Veblen and R. H. Tawney.
                  
                     11 Lynd and Lynd, 
                                
                                    Middletown
                                
                            , 7.
               
                     excessively large nor small—the research team felt
                    they could handle a place of 25,000 to 50,000 population. Finally, the city had to have a
                    "small Negro and foreign-born population."12 This was critical
                    because the Lynds wanted to avoid the confounding effects of cultural heterogeneity. A community
                    with complex horizontal compartments would obscure the effects of modernization.
            Fast growing 
                        Muncie
                    , population 37,000, with the lowest proportion of immigrants of any of the midwestern
                    cities, was an easy choice.13 True, the city had a slightly higher proportion of
                    blacks than was usual in the Midwest, but the Lynds solved this problem by totally excluding blacks
                    from all of their observations, interviews, analyses, and write-ups.
            The problem with selecting a typical city in this manner was that 
                        Muncie
                     was strikingly different from other industrial cities because it had so few ethnics. In
                    urban America, half or more of the population was ethnic. In 1930, 88 percent of 
                        Muncie
                    's people were white and "old stock"—that is, both
                    parents born in the 
                        United States
                    . Of the 191 cities of over 50,000 population in 1930, only two (
                  Springfield, Missouri
               , and 
                        Huntington
                    , West 
                        Virginia
                    ) had a larger native stock proportion. No city in the Midwest with as many as 25,000
                    people was more old stock than 
                        Muncie
                    .14 Together with its sister gas belt cities, Anderson and
                            
                  Kokomo, Muncie
                stood out as a demographic curiosity—a fastgrowing
                    factory town whose population growth was drawn almost entirely from nearby farms. Thus the
                    experience of industrialization in 
                        Middletown
                     lacked the critical ethnic dimension that was otherwise nearly universal in America.15
            
            
               
                  12
                        Ibid., 8.
               
                  13
                        
                            Muncie
                         tied with New 
                            Albany
                         in low proportion of foreign born, but Robert Lynd had been born and raised in the
                        latter city. To pick it as typical would be going too far.
               
                  14 At the extreme were Ashland, 
                            Kentucky
                        , 92 percent old stock white; 
                     Hagerstown, Maryland, Springfield, Missouri
                  , and Parkersburg, West 
                            Virginia
                        , at 90 percent; Joplin, 
                            Missouri
                        , Amarillo, 
                            Texas
                        , and 
                            Huntington
                        , West 
                            Virginia
                        , at 89 percent. All but Amarillo were Ozark or Appalachian trading centers. Bureau
                        of the Census, Abstract of the Fifteenth Census of the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            Washington
                        , D.C., 1933), 101–102, 103–13.
               
                  15 To provide contrast, note that 
                            Detroit
                         was 34 percent old stock white; 
                            Chicago
                        , 28 percent; 
                            Cleveland
                        , 27 percent; Gary, 34 percent; Grand Rapids, 47 percent; 
                            South Bend
                        , 55 percent. Urban Indiana, as a whole, was 73 percent old stock white, in contrast
                        to 47 percent for urban 
                     Illinois, Michigan, Ohio
                  , and 
                            Wisconsin
                         combined. Thus, 
                            Muncie
                         was quite different from the urban Midwest. 
                            Oshkosh
                         at 47 percent old stock white or 
                            Michigan
                         City at 52 percent would have made a more "typical"
                    choice.
            
            
            Chosing 
                        Muncie
                    , anyway, the Lynds proceeded to create a mythic preindustrial past.16 They combed the newspapers and surviving organizational records, supplemented by two
                    curious diaries and haphazard recollections to paint a romantic picture of a happy
                    "gemeinschaft" society of yore, with lively arts, vigorous unions, skilled
                    craftsmen, and contented folk. Then modernization hit: 
                        In the quiet county-seat of the middle eighties men lived relatively close to the earth and
                            its products. In less than four decades, business class and working class, bosses and
                            bossed, have been caught up by Industry, this new trait in the city's culture that
                            is shaping the pattern of the whole of living.17
                  
                     The result of this change on human personality was nothing less than devastating: 
                        large numbers of people anxious to get their living are periodically stopped by the recurrent
                            phenomenon of "bad times" when the machines stop running, workers are
                            "laid off" by the hundreds, salesmen sell less, bankers call in loans,
                            "credit freezes," and many 
                                Middletown
                             families may take their children from school, move into cheaper homes, cut down
                            on food, and do without many of the countless things they desire.
                        The working class is mystified by the whole fateful business.18
                  
                    
                
            
               
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     was thus a morality tale. The authors were not poking fun at simple people, they were
                    condemning a civilization. More calmly, they were exposing the contradictions of modernization. The
                    business ethic that dominated America preached progress and prosperity while bringing anxiety,
                    misery, alienation, and despair to the workers who suffered. As the authors repeatedly emphasized,
                    the business class was responsible for all the innovations, and thus all the problems. The working
                    class, although 70 percent of the population, lacked class consciousness, for the system had broken
                    the labor unions.19 The hegemony of the business class was total, as the
                    churches, politics, the press, and advertising had nearly convinced the confused workers that
                    modernization must march forward.
            
               
                  16 Luther Fry, Robert Lynd's colleague at the Institute of Social
                        and Religious Research, may have suggested tracing the changes in one community over a forty
                        year span. His Diagnosing the Rural Church did this for Windsor County, 
                            Vermont
                        . The Lynd Papers are sealed at the Library of Congress, and scholars do not know
                        exactly how the 
                            Middletown
                         project was started.
               
                  17 Lynd and Lynd, 
                            
                                Middletown
                            
                        , 87.
               
                  18
                        Ibid. The Lynds were describing the mid-1920s, of course; when they returned
                        to describe the 1930s, for 
                     
                                Middletown
                             in Transition, their vocabulary of outrage at human suffering had been
                        exhausted, so they turned their wrath on the "X family," who they believed
                        controlled the city.
               
                  19 "From the end of the nineties such laconic reports as
                        ‘Strike defeated by use of machinery’ mark increasingly the failing status
                        of organized labor in 
                            Middletown
                        ." Ibid., 78. "But the significant point is that
                        [in the 1890s] labor
            
            
            If the Lynds had given full vent to their outrage, 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     would soon have been forgotten as another radical polemic. The genius of the book, and its
                    enduring value, was that the Lynds pulled their punches (more accurately, they tucked them into
                    footnotes) and proceeded to explore the ramifications of modernization in every one of the six
                    facets of community life they identified. In 
                  
                            Middletown
                         in Transition, having abandoned the modernization theme, the Lynds were left
                    with a much shriller book, of permanent interest only in its descriptions of the impact of the
                    Depression on family life and community decision making.
            The strongest part of 
                            Middletown
                        
                was section two, "Making a Home." Aided by Dr. Faith
                    Williams, an outstanding early home economist, the Lynds undertook a splendidly detailed and
                    suggestive description of the process of marriage, housework, and child rearing. The contrast
                    between this treatment and the dull statistical work then prevalent in home economics research could
                    not be more striking. A strong feminist tone can be detected, especially in the welcoming of new
                    employment opportunities for women.20 Again, however, the selection of 
                        Muncie
                     caused problems. Of all American cities of 25,000 or more population in 1930, 90
                    percent had a larger proportion of women at work than did 
                        Muncie
                    .21 The actual situation for the typical American woman was thus
                    more "liberated" than the Lynds dared hope.
            The evils of modernization were not forgotten, however. The authors deplored the rapid increase in
                    electric washing machines, seeing a dangerous new device to tie women more closely to the home.22 Even more grievous was advertising. Robert Lynd had worked briefly in the 
                        New York
                     advertising business and was especially alert to its insidious attraction. The trick
                    was "to make the reader emotionally uneasy, to bludgeon him with the fact that decent
                    people don't live the way he does."23 Then
                    the poor suckers will sacrifice everything to buy, buy, buy. Installment buying ("which
                    turns wishes into horses overnight")24 breaks down the traditional
                    propensity to save prudently, thus forcing the worker ever more into the 
                  was powerful and class-conscious, and the workers apparently gained added stature in many
                            of their vital activities from their membership in this powerful union movement."
                                Ibid., 79.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 25–30.
                  
                     21 Bureau of the Census, Abstract of the Fifteenth
                            Census, pp. 388–91.
                  
                     22 Lynd and Lynd, 
                                
                                    Middletown
                                
                            , 498.
                  
                     23
                            Ibid., 82.
                  
                            24
                            Ibid.
                        
               
                     clutches of the modernizing ethic. Advertising was
                    "thrusting new illiteracies" on the housewife, because the home was "an
                    essentially isolated, small-unit purchaser served by an untrained, amateur purchasing agent exposed
                    to competing, highly organized channels of diffusion."25 As a result
                    the home was being ruined. Once "it possessed recreational, educational, and protective, as
                    well as economic functions."26 Now "with the growth of
                    … extra-home activities involving money expenditure comes an increased emphasis upon the
                    money nexus between members of the family."27
            
            The dominant factor changing small city life in the 1920s was the automobile. Since the World War the
                    number of cars had tripled, until by 1923 there were two automobiles for every three families in 
                        Muncie
                    . The Lynds, however, took a narrow and jaundiced view of this phenomenon. Nearly all
                    the cities, small and large, within a 200 mile radius of 
                        Detroit
                     shared in the great auto boom of 1910–1930. 
                  Indianapolis, Columbus,
                            Kokomo, South
                    Bend
               , and Anderson, for example, were major suppliers to the industry, and
                    so was 
                        Muncie
                    . By 1935, half of 
                        Muncie
                    's manufacturing concentrated on automotive supplies. The Lynds largely ignored
                    the growth of the industry and its entrepreneurial and managerial components. As a social factor,
                    they referred darkly to the relative youth of the auto factory workers, suggesting strongly that the
                    new machine age was chewing up youthful workers and ignoring the employment needs of the middle
                        aged.28
            
            While the economic development spurred by the motor vehicle and its attendant industries hardly
                    interested the Lynds, they were deeply concerned with the pathological effects of automobiles on
                    American society. First was the havoc wreaked by the cost of the machines. They argued (though their
                    evidence contradicted the point) that families mortgaged homes to buy cars; furthermore, ownership
                    reduced saving, and family clothing and food budgets were sacrificed. They found twenty-one car
                    owners who lacked bathtubs. Candy sales were down because of the cost of autos, and, quoting a labor
                    leader, "the Ford car has done an awful lot of harm to the unions," because the
                    men would rather drive around than attend meetings.29 The Lynds dramatized their
                    point by citing seductive advertising 
                  
                     25
                            Ibid., 176.
                  
                     26
                            Ibid., 176.
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., 177.
                  
                     28
                            Ibid., 32, 35.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 554.
               
                     and by indicating that the working man spent one
                    week's pay each month in car payments. Their failure to analyze closely the budget data
                    they collected grossly misled them. Just under half the working class families owned cars, spending
                    an average 9 percent of their annual incomes for automobile purchase, gasoline, and upkeep, not
                    triple this amount as indicated in the text.30
            
            In the restudy, the Lynds dropped their concern with budget damage, but warned more pointedly of the
                    "pounding impact upon the family's standard of living of the commercially
                    manipulated pressure to buy new models"—evidence, they argued, of the extent to
                    which 
                        Middletown
                    's life is caught in the grip and forced to do the will of the economic
                        institutions."31
            
            The automobile was hurting families in more insidious ways than just draining its budget. Attendance
                    at church supposedly fell because of Sunday outings, while the new generation worshipped speed
                    itself. Youth fought parents for control of the car, then used it for petting and sex crimes. The
                    authors skipped over their evidence that motoring trips were bringing families closer together, but
                    they did acknowledge that the rapid growth of scheduled vacations centered on auto trips. The Lynds
                    did not appreciate the impact of the auto in extending the range of employment and shopping for both
                    urban and rural families, but they did show great concern about the supposed decline of residential
                    neighborhoods. On the whole, they found the automobile an artificial mechanical enticement that
                    brought more evil than good to the people caught in its embrace.32
            
            Social mobility is a major theme in history and sociology today, and 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     helped bring the question to the fore. Before they came to 
                        Muncie
                     the Lynds apparently had not thought much about how society was stratified, or how
                    people moved from one rank to another. They experimented with a variety of classifications (like
                    "upper," "middle," and "lower" class) before
                    deciding, late in their fieldwork, to hinge their interpretation on a working class versus business
                    class cleavage. Their actual classifications make it clear that this was simply a blue collar versus
                    white collar distinction. As such, it 
                  
                     30
                            Ibid., 253–56, 514–17. The standard deviation of
                            auto expenses was 8.4 percent. The proportion of homeowners and mortgages was virtually the
                            same among worker families who owned or did not own cars.
                  
                     31 Lynd and Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition, 267–68.
                  
                     32 Lynd and Lynd, 
                                
                                    Middletown
                                
                            , 64–65, 273–75; Lynd and Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition, 188, 467.
               
                     was perfectly serviceable, though far less subtle than the
                    complex scheme Lloyd Warner and his colleagues devised for the "
                        Yankee City
                    " study in the 1930s.33 Pioneer studies in social mobility
                    were underway by Pitirim Sorokin at 
                        Minnesota
                    , but the Lynds missed both the resulting articles and Sorokin's enormously
                    important Social Mobility, published in 
                        New York
                     in 1927.34
            
            The Lynds were mystified as to why some people belonged to the business class and others to the
                    working class. At one point they suggested that "the mere fact of being born upon one or
                    the other side of the watershed … is the most significant single cultural factor tending
                    to influence what one does all day long throughout one's life."35 Elsewhere, however, they concluded that luck and happenstance were decisive: children
                    "for the most part … ‘go to work’ by taking advantage of
                    some vacancy they or their families happen to hear about and spend the rest of their
                        lives doing that thing."36 They did not ask about
                    fathers' occupations and so could not estimate how much intergenerational movement between
                    the classes had occurred.37 Questionnaires on vocational preference given to
                    high school boys showed that the working class youth planned to break radically with their
                    fathers' work—a majority planned white collar careers. The Lynds acknowledged
                    that working class families believed fervently in education as an escape route 
                  
                     33 W. Lloyd Warner and Paul S. Lunt, The Status System of
                                a Modern Community [
                                Yankee City
                             Series, vol. II] (
                                New Haven
                            , 1942); W. Lloyd Warner, "American Caste and Class," American
                                Journal of Sociology, XLII (September, 1936), 234–37. W.
                            Lloyd Warner, Marchia Meeker, and Kenneth Eells, Social Class in America (
                                Chicago
                            , 1949), explains the Warner technique in detail. For the intellectual history,
                            see Milton M. Gordon, Social Class in American Sociology (Durham, N.C.,
                            1958).
                  
                     34 The Lynds were largely self-taught. Robert Lynd had a divinity
                            degree and doubtless learned most of his social survey technique working for the Institute
                            of Social and Religious Research. In 1931, 
                                Columbia
                             awarded him a Ph.D. (without coursework) on the basis of 
                                
                                    Middletown
                                
                             and gave him its prestigious chair of sociology. 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition displayed far more sociological expertise; see the
                            analysis of class in terms similar to Lloyd Warner's on pp. 458–60.
                  
                     35 Lynd and Lynd, 
                                
                                    Middletown
                                
                            , 23–24.
                  
                     36
                            Ibid., 50, italics added. See also ibid., 48.
                            Rivers' anthropology, heavily acknowledged by the Lynds, emphasized social groups
                            based on descent—that is, groups that automatically recruit by birth, which are
                            exclusive in membership, clearly bounded, and do not overlap. Rivers, Social
                                Organization, 85 ff. The Lynds mistakenly thought of class in these terms.
                  
                     37 The Lynds noted that half of the wives in the
                            working class were farm bred, versus only one in seven of the business wives. Ibid., 30–35. They also compared occupations by surname in 1890 and
                            1924, finding that relatives in the earlier period were more clustered in the same jobs. Ibid., 51.
               
                     for their children, but the authors' skepticism about
                    this actually happening was transparent.38
            
            The Lynds believed that the traditional "rags to riches" pattern of upward social
                    mobility within a single lifetime was being destroyed by industrialization. They calculated that
                    only one factory worker in fifty-three was promoted to foreman in a twenty-one month period.39 Allowing that industrialization was increasing the number of opportunities to
                    own garages, filling stations, electrical shops, and other small businesses, they warned that the
                    opportunity to become a manufacturer was declining. The Lynds were shifting their concept of strata
                    from the business-working dichotomy to a sort of independent versus hired classification and
                    lamenting that industrialization increased the latter category more than the former. The point was
                    underscored in the conclusion in the second volume: 
                        the depression has increased this helpless commitment of a growing share of the population to
                            the state of working for others with a diminished chance to "get ahead".
                            … Here is a fundamental alteration in the vaunted American ladder of
                                opportunity.40
                  
                    
                
            To make matters worse, industrialization was degrading the status of the honest craftsmen of yore.
                    The Lynds' lovingly detailed description of the craft of glass blowing in the 1890s
                    contrasted starkly with their exposure of the high speed, highly mechanized system of 1924. The new
                    industrial system forced men to work harder and faster, "activity seemingly so foreign to
                    many of the most powerful impulses of human beings."41 They quoted an
                    executive about one machinist's work: "But it's so endlessly monotonous!
                    That man is dead, just dead! and there's a lot of others like him."42 The Lynds concluded: 
                        The shift from a system in which length of service, craftsmanship, and authority in the shop
                            and social prestige among one's peers tended to go together to one which, in the
                            main, demands little of a worker's personality 
                        
                           38
                                    Ibid., 51–52, 187.
                        
                           39 That is, 1 percent per year. In forty years at that rate, a
                                    third of the workers would become foremen. Ibid.,
                                    65–66. More careful studies showed that the chance of becoming a foreman
                                    was more like 3 to 5 percent per year for younger men, less for older men. White
                                    collar workers had much greater promotion rates. Ely Chinoy, Automobile
                                        Workers and the American Dream (
                                        Garden City
                                    , N.Y., 1955); James Rosenbaum, "Organizational Career
                                    Mobility: Promotion Chances in a Corporation during Periods of Growth and
                                    Contraction," American Journal of Sociology, 85 (1979),
                                    21–48.
                        
                           40 Lynd and Lynd, 
                              
                                            Middletown
                                         in Transition, 71; Lynd and Lynd, 
                                        
                                            Middletown
                                        
                                    , 67.
                        
                           41 Lynd and Lynd, 
                                        
                                            Middletown
                                        
                                    , 73.
                        
                           42
                                    Ibid., 75.
                     
                             save rapid, habitual reactions and an ability to
                            submerge himself in the performance of a few routinized easily learned movements seems to
                            have wiped out many of the satisfactions that formerly accompanied the job.43
                  
                     Thus alienation and degradation of the worker were the inevitable results of
                    industrialization.
            The Lynds phrased their findings—wild guesses, really—in terms of the fate of
                    the typical worker. Their own evidence showed that the younger factory workers in 
                        Muncie
                     were recruited chiefly from nearby farms, not from craftsmen stripped
                    of their skills. In the early twentieth century, nationwide, the number of male craftsmen increased
                    every year (at a compound rate of 2.9 percent per year from 1900 to 1920), while the number of
                    unskilled laborers grew half as fast (1.5 percent per year), and the number of factory workers
                    increased at a slightly faster rate (3.4 percent per year). The number of farmers held constant, as
                    surplus farm youth by the hundreds of thousands flocked to nearby towns and small cities like 
                        Muncie
                    .44 Shifts were even more dramatic in the case of the native white
                    men, because most of the unskilled and semiskilled jobs at the bottom were taken by new immigrants,
                    thereby forcing the old stock workers upward. The Lynds missed this dramatic shift because they
                    studied one of the very few old stock factory towns without European immigrants.45
            
            Quite apart from national trends pointing the other way, the Lynds could have supported their
                    argument with living examples of men damaged by industrialization. Their research design, however,
                    destroyed this possibility. They did not interview workers about the jobs they held in 1924 or in
                    the past. Of the thousands of skilled young craftsmen who worked in 
                        Muncie
                     and neighboring towns in the 1890s, there must have been hundreds still around in 1924.
                    Yet the Lynds did not attempt to 
                  
                     43
                            Ibid., 75–76.
                  
                     44 Bureau of the Census, Historical Statistics of the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1975), 139. The number of male white collar workers increased at 2.7
                            percent per year. During the 1920s, craftsmen increased at a rate of 1.3 percent, factory
                            men at 1.3 percent, and white collar men at 2.9 percent per year. On rural migration, see
                            Carmel L. Jones, "Migration, Religion, and Occupational Mobility of Southern
                            Appalachians in 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana," (Ed.D. thesis, Ball State University, 1978).
                  
                     45 For a study of 
                                South Bend
                            , see Dean Esslinger, Immigrants and the City: Ethnicity and
                                Mobility in a Nineteenth-Century Midwestern Community (
                                Port Washington
                            , N.Y., 1975). A good introduction to the sociological techniques involved is
                            Judah Matras, Social Inequality, Stratification, and Mobility (Englewood
                            Cliffs, N.J., 1975).
               
                     trace them.46 Worst of all, the Lynds did
                    not interview the workers at all—they interviewed their wives. Thus,
                    the employment characteristics, such as job titles, job changes, and unemployment that they studied
                    were based on indirect sources. The critical factors of job satisfaction, the work ethic,
                    displacement of skills, and lifetime upward mobility were "explained" through
                    speculation, even though hard evidence could have been obtained just by asking the men directly.
            In their restudy of 
                        Muncie
                    , the investigators did not bother even to interview wives. This permitted even freer
                    reign to speculation. The Lynds argued that the degradation of craft skills and the blockage of
                    vertical mobility on the part of the working class gave the lie to America's
                    "exuberant boast of a classless society." The mythical ladder of success, they
                    pointed out, was "the popular justification of the reigning laissez-faire
                    philosophy—as regards the present predatory practices of business enterprise,"
                    the uneven distribution of wealth, and opposition to social reform. As reality and symbol drifted
                    apart, class consciousness should rise. This, the Lynds sadly noted, had not yet happened in 
                        Middletown
                    . But when it did, it would "usher in an era of urgent overhauling of
                    conventional American symbols and incentives."47
            
            In the last few years historians have been tracing the careers of individual workers through censuses
                    and city directories, and sociologists have conducted retrospective interviews. The results show a
                    steady rate of upward mobility from blue collar to white collar status, both from father to son and
                    within individual careers. That is, the amount of vertical mobility has been quite constant in
                    industrial America from 1850 to the present.48
            
            
               
                  46 Their sample of workers was drawn from current payrolls at three
                        plants, where only 11 percent of the workers were fifty-five years of age or older in 1924. They
                        then rejected all families without a school-aged child, which eliminated most if not all the
                        older workers. Only five men in the sample had worked for their present employer more than
                        twenty-five years. Lynd and Lynd, 
                            
                                Middletown
                            
                        , 507, 511, 512.
               
                  47 Lynd and Lynd, 
                     
                                Middletown
                             in Transition, 72, 73, 454. The quotation is from ibid.,
                        73. 
                            Muncie
                        's autoworkers refused to join the sit-down strikes in 1937; the workers
                        unanimously assured General Motors of their "loyal support in the present labor
                        crisis." Ibid., 73.
               
                  48 Stephen Thernstrom, The Other Bostonians (
                            Cambridge
                        , Mass., 1973), reviews and updates the historical literature. See Robert Hauser and
                        David Featherman, The Process of Stratification (
                            New York
                        , 1977), for current sociological findings. The rate of intergenerational social
                        mobility in 
                            Indianapolis
                         did not change at all between 1910 and 1940. See Otis Dudley Duncan,
                        "Methodological Issues in the Analysis of Social Mobility," in Neil J. Smelser
                        and Seymour Martin Lipset, eds., Social Structure and Mobility in Economic
                    
               
            
            
            Since the original sponsor of 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     was a research institute primarily concerned with the changing status of religion in American
                    life, fully one-fifth of the book focused on this issue. The Lynds interviewed leading ministers and
                    laymen at length and attended hundreds of religious services, YMCA programs, and meetings of social
                    groups sponsored by 
                        Muncie
                    's churches. They took copious notes on sermons and examined every relevant
                    document and unpublished record they could find.
            The results were thin. The four chapters on religion in 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     were filled with poorly digested descriptions and long, rambling quotations. Perhaps the Lynds
                    lost interest in religion after finishing the fieldwork; perhaps the sponsors would not allow a
                    merciless expose. The Lynds found that among adults, their parents in 1890, and their children in
                    1924, striking differences existed across class lines. The business class attended services and
                    meetings more faithfully, but religion played a far less central role in their lives than it did
                    among the working class, regardless of generation. Secularization thus came in two forms: each
                    succeeding generation was less religious than the previous one, and the business class was more
                    secular than the working class. The Lynds made little of this important finding, preferring instead
                    to concentrate on how irrelevant religious credos actually had become in this era of
                    industrialization.
            The modernization of society in the previous generation apparently had little impact on religion. The
                    Lynds clearly sympathized with the problems faced by the leading Protestant ministers in searching
                    for new roles to play (Robert Lynd held a divinity degree from 
                        Princeton
                     Seminary, and, if a social research job had not opened up, might well have become a
                    Presbyterian minister somewhere). Although the ministers were eager to adopt new techniques for
                    publicity, counselling, and fund raising, they were reluctant to abandon entirely the spiritual
                    heritage they represented, even if the congregation paid no attention. "My people seem to
                    sit through the sermon in a kind of dazed, comatose state," admitted one minister.49 The low interest shown by the business class coupled with the 
                  
                     Development (
                                Chicago
                            , 1966), 51–97. Most of the long-terra social mobility in 
                                Muncie
                             involved movement from farm to city. For the only historical analysis of job
                            mobility of rural youth, see Richard Jensen and Mark Friedberger, Education and
                                Social Change: An Historical Study of 
                                    Iowa
                                , 1880–1930 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1976).
                  
                     49 Lynd and Lynd, 
                                
                                    Middletown
                                
                            , 371.
               
                     refusal of Rotary, the key intellectual and service club for
                    the businessmen, to admit any clergymen showed that modern America had little use for religion. The
                    higher interest shown by the working class, furthermore, suggested that religion was an obsolescent
                    survival of premodern culture, likely soon to lose whatever role it still had.
            The Lynds' observation that religion had changed little in a generation could have supported
                    an entirely opposite conclusion from the one reached. Religion might have been the first institution
                    to modernize, and in turn have generated the spirit of capitalism that produced economic changes. In
                    1905, Max Weber, in the Protestant Ethic and the Spirit of Capitalism, argued as
                    much. The English translation appeared in 1930, but the Lynds must have had some notion of the
                    thesis since they did cite R. H. Tawney's Religion and the Rise of
                    Capitalism (
                        New York
                    , 1926). H. Richard Niebuhr, working in the same intellectual environment as the Lynds,
                    published The Social Sources of Denominationalism (
                        New York
                    , 1929) the same year as 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     appeared, and used Weberian categories to show how important religion was in the origins of
                    the business ethic that the Lynds made so much of. But the Lynds never made the connection. They
                    were committed to the proposition that technology was the basic causal force in modernization, from
                    which behavior, attitudes, and values flowed. They had to conclude that religion was either a
                    product of modernization, obviously not true in 
                        Middletown
                    , or else irrelevant.50
            
            In revisiting 
                        Middletown
                    , the research staff spent far less time on religion. They quickly concluded that
                    religious practice had hardly changed in the course of a decade. But with fewer reports to digest,
                    the authors turned loose their speculative skills. The single chapter on religion in the second
                    volume (5 percent of the book) also drops the cutesy anthropology of the first volume.51
            
            The Lynds suddenly realized that the irrelevance of religion was in fact highly functional and
                    necessary for the individual 
                  
                     50 See Richard Jensen, 
                        
                                    Illinois
                                : A Bicentennial History (
                                New York
                            , 1978); and Richard Jensen, The Winning of the Midwest: Social and
                                Political Conflict, 1888–1896 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1971), for arguments of close links between religion and other forms of
                            social, economic, and political behavior and values, with religion prior to the others.
                  
                     51 "Just as this city performs identical services in its
                            homes by processes ranging all the way from the use of primitive hand implements like the
                            broom and the washboard to the use of electrical labor-saving devices, so in this region of
                            its religion one observes many shades of belief addressed to this common purpose of coping
                            with the too-bigness of life." Lynd and Lynd, 
                                
                                    Middletown
                                
                            , 229–30.
               
                     to cope with society. The one thing everybody in 
                        Middletown
                     had in common—insecurity in the face of a complicated world—made
                    the more fixed aspects of the city's culture into emotionally needed counterweights to
                    change. 
                        Middletown
                    's commitment to "Progress" created a strongly
                    instrumentalist attitude, such that pecuniary culture became an end in itself, and even religion was
                    bound to be affected. The authors revealed that the intensely spiritual revival they reported on in
                    the first book was intended as a kick-off for a fund-raising campaign. Going to church had become a
                    "kind of moral life-insurance policy." The function of religion as an emotional
                    anchor in a world of insecurity was itself threatened by the logical unfolding of the pecuniary
                    culture it was supposed to spiritualize.52
            
            The second report on 
                        Middletown
                     announced a city in transition. Modernization had largely run its course; the Lynds
                    found no new manifestation that had not been apparent in 1924. The city had grown and was
                    approaching 50,000 population. Sheer size, the authors speculated, was undercutting the old sense of
                    belonging and emphasizing formal structures at the expense of neighborhoods and small groups. Size
                    also enhanced the power of a small elite tied into the national corporate system.53 But in terms of values, 
                        Middletown
                     was unchanged—it had learned nothing from the trauma of depression. The
                    working class, in particular, still showed no evidence of class solidarity. Unions were weaker in 
                        Muncie
                     in 1935 than they had been a decade earlier, despite the enormous upsurge of militant
                    unionism elsewhere in the industrial Midwest. The Lynds attributed this to the single-minded,
                    anti-union policy of the upper business class and to the distinctive rural origins of 
                        Muncie
                    's workers.54
            
            The Lynds expected that the bitter experience of economic collapse would have destroyed 
                        Middletown
                    's blind faith in modernization—at least in the belief in
                    inevitable, continuous progress.55 Their careful search found little evidence of
                    this. The only indicators were a supposed decay of faith in education56 and a
                    dark undertone of fascism among some businessmen.57 Why was the spirit of
                    modernization so resiliant? 
                  
                     52 Lynd and Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition, 303, 311–18.
                  
                     53
                            Ibid., 466–68.
                  
                     54
                            Ibid., 451–55.
                  
                     55
                            Ibid., 3–4.
                  
                     56
                            Ibid., 485, 489.
                  
                     57
                            Ibid., 387, 505–506.
               
                     The need for security, more urgent than ever before, forced
                    both businessmen and workingmen to cling "to tried sources of security rather than
                    venturing out into the untried."58
            
            One bright hope had appeared. The sheer scope of calamity had proven that local resources were
                    shallow and had forced the city to rely heavily upon outside aid. The New Deal did far more than
                    pump money into the stricken city. It brought municipal improvements that had long been needed but
                    which "prosperous" 
                        Muncie
                     never thought it could afford. The city was noticeably more attractive in 1935. Most
                    important, the New Deal brought planning to a culture that prided itself on individual initiative
                    and distrust of government. The Lynds showed that 
                        Muncie
                     businessmen strongly distrusted the New Deal, even to the point of sabotaging the Home
                    Owners' Loan Corporation in the city.59 The Lynds fervently believed in
                    the necessity of national planning and saw the modernization ethic as the chief obstacle that had to
                    be overcome.60
            
            The in-depth anthropological studies of American communities, typified by the 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     books and a series of projects sponsored by W. Lloyd Warner in the 1930s, constitute a unique
                    genre in American studies. They moved sociology away from the reform-oriented community survey
                    toward a scientific study of culture. While it is impossible to agree with the Lynds'
                    contention that "consideration of 
                        Middletown
                     in terms of ‘good’, ‘bad’,
                    ‘better’ or ‘worse’ is, obviously, irrelevant to the
                    purpose of the study,"61 there can be no doubt of the importance of
                    their work in forming America's self-image. The historian is astonished that this style of
                    sociology has virtually died out. The Lynds contemplated a third report on 
                        Middletown
                     in the 1940s but never carried it out; they also began fieldwork on yet another
                    community study but never finished it. Intellectual styles in sociology changed, and Robert Lynd was
                    overshadowed at 
                        Columbia
                     by more theoretical and more quantitative sociologists who lost sight of the community
                    midway between microscopic technical studies and grand macroscopic theories. Sociologist Theodore
                    Caplow has been replicating the 
                  
                     58
                            Ibid., 492–93.
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., 24.
                  
                     60 Robert S. Lynd, Knowledge for What? (
                                Princeton
                            , N.J., 1939), ch. 6. Robert Lynd participated in President Herbert
                            Hoover's "Recent Social Trends" project. Recent
                                Social Trends in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1933), 857–911. Several of Lynd's 
                                Columbia
                             colleagues formed the nucleus of the New Deal "brain trust."
                  
                     61 Lynd and Lynd, 
                                
                                    Middletown
                                
                            , 496. "Neither field work nor report has attempted to prove any
                            thesis." Ibid., 3.
               
                     Lynds' research in "
                        Middletown
                    : Fifty Years Later." But it is a task more suited for the historian to examine
                    other cities—and, yes, 
                        Muncie
                     again—in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century to discover exactly
                    how the process of modernization affected life in America.
         
         
         
            
               GEORGE R. DALE: MAYOR OF MUNCIE, INDIANA, 1930–1934
               Reproduced from Charles Roll, Indiana: One Hundred and Fifty Years of
                            American Development (5 vols, 
                            Chicago
                        , 1931), V, 191.
            
            
            Who Governed 
                        Middletown
                    ? Community Power in 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, in the 1930s
            
                    Carrolyle M. Frank
                    ∗
                
            Fifty years ago, in 1929, Robert and Helen Lynd published 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                    , their sociological treatise on 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana. In 
                  
                            Middletown
                         in Transition, the 1937 sequel to the original "
                        Muncie
                     story," the Lynds noted that since their first study the community had fallen
                    under the control of a prominent, local business family. Admitting that they had not previously
                    perceived the central role played by the Ball family, whom they referred to as the "X
                    family," the Lynds detected what they believed to be a consolidation of influence in the
                    hands of this close-knit clan.1 By the mid-1980s, the Lynds had concluded that:
                        
                        
                     
                                Middletown
                             has … at present what amounts to a reigning royal family. The power
                            of this family has become so great as to differentiate the city today somewhat from cities
                            with a more diffuse type of control. … The business class in 
                                Middletown
                             runs the city. The nucleus of business-class control is the X family.2
                  
                    
                
            The Lynds conceded that the Balls did not seek to exploit 
                        Muncie
                     politically; their control was largely informal and unplanned, and their dominance
                    tended to be unconscious rather than deliberate. The relevant fact, however, is that the Lynds were
                    convinced that "at most significant points in the city's life, one of the
                    X's stands at, or close to, the directing center of that particular local movement.
                        …"3 Thus, they concluded, 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, a city of almost 50,000 people, was governed by a 
                  
                     ∗ Carrolyle M. Frank is associate professor of history and
                            urban studies at Edinboro State College, Edinboro, 
                                Pennsylvania
                            .
                  
                     1 Robert S. Lynd and Helen Merrell Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                : A Study in Contemporary American Culture (
                                New York
                            , 1929); Robert S. Lynd and Helen Merrell Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition: A Study in Cultural Conflicts (
                                New York
                            , 1937), 74–101.
                  
                     2 Lynd and Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition, 77.
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., 92.
               
                     socioeconomic oligarchy or business-class elite clustered
                    around the Ball family.
            The five Ball brothers4 came to 
                        Muncie
                     from Buffalo, 
                        New York
                    , in 1887 to take advantage of a local natural gas boom. They established a glass
                    manufacturing plant which by the turn of the century was reputed to be the world's largest
                    producer of mason canning jars. These astute entrepreneurs also acquired substantial investments in
                    a number of other important commercial enterprises in 
                        Muncie
                    , including an automobile transmission company, a metal furniture factory, a meat
                    packing plant, a bank, the airport, the city's largest department store, and a daily
                    newspaper, the Morning Star. Partly as a result of the Great Depression, George
                    Alexander Ball gained control of a financial empire that owned the railroads passing through 
                        Muncie
                    . The local state-owned teachers college and the community hospital were named in honor
                    of the Ball family because of its contributions to those institutions. Most of the city's
                    charitable and philanthropic organizations profited from Ball generosity and, presumably, were
                    dominated by the benevolent family. When Robert Lynd revisited 
                        Middletown
                     in 1935, two of the original founders of the fruit jar dynasty—Frank Clayton
                    Ball and George A. Ball—were still living. By this time members of the second
                    generation—E. Arthur Ball, Edmund F. Ball, William Hudson Ball, and, until his untimely
                    death in 1936, Frank Eliot Ball—were assuming leading roles in the family business
                        ventures.5
            
            In their second 
                        Middletown
                     study, the Lynds introduced the theory of "elitism," which holds that
                    local affairs are manipulated behind the scenes by a small group of influential businessmen and
                    social notables interacting together. For the next several decades that explanation of community
                    power was 
                  
                     4 The five original Ball brothers were Edmund Burke Ball, Frank
                            Clayton Ball, George Alexander Ball, Dr. Lucius L. Ball, and William Charles Ball.
                  
                     5 Frank Clayton Ball, Memoirs (
                                Muncie
                            , Ind., 1937), 76–80, 121, 137, 139, 142, 146; John D. Barnhart and
                            Donald F. Carmony, Indiana: From Frontier to Industrial Commonwealth (4
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1954), II, 282–84, III, 3; "An Empire for
                            Charity," Business Week (April 17, 1937), 17–18; Frank
                            D. Haimbaugh, History of 
                                    Delaware
                                 County, Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1924), II, 36–38, 80–83, 648–49,
                            656–57, 664–66, 668–69, 675–76; Lynd and Lynd,
                                
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition, 82–86, 89–90; Clifton J.
                            Phillips, Indiana in Transition: The Emergence of an Industrial Commonwealth,
                                1880–1920 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1968), 297–302; Charles Roll, Indiana: One Hundred and
                                Fifty Years of American Development (5 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1931), II, 524, III, 3–7, IV, 109, V, 67, 264; Glenn White, The Ball State Story: From Normal Institute to University (
                                Muncie
                            , Ind., 1967), 51, 55, 66, 79–80, 82–83.
               
                     the most fashionable model for sociologists.6 In the 1960s, however, Robert A. Dahl challenged "elitism" by positing a
                    "pluralism" paradigm. A community was not governed by a single elite, according to
                    Dahl, but rather by competing interest or pressure groups motivated into political activity in
                    response to issues directly affecting them.7 Ritchie P. Lowry added a unique
                    twist to the pluralism thesis; one that was especially useful in the present study. Based on
                    research in Chico, 
                        California
                    , Lowry asserted that pluralism can result in an abdication of leadership responsibility
                    with the consequence that no one really runs a community.8
            
            Recently another significant model of local decision making has emerged as a counterweight to both
                    the Lynds' elitism and Dahl's pluralism. Daniel J. Elazar, in a concept designated
                    as "federalism," postulated that major decisions concerning a community usually
                    were not determined by either a local elite or by polylithic, hometown pressure groups. Elazar
                    questioned the ability of an elite to dominate because of the diffusion of power created by
                    numerous, overlapping governmental units (municipal, township, county, etc.) within the same
                    locality. Yet civic pressure groups normally did not take the initiative to resolve problems either.
                    Rather, solutions to local issues generally were encouraged, enforced, or stimulated by agencies or
                    authorities "outside" the community, such as the state and federal governments.9
            
            
               
                  6 See especially Floyd Hunter, Community Power Structure: A
                            Study of Decision Makers (
                            Chapel Hill
                        , N.C., 1953); Robert Presthus, Men at the Top: A Study in Community
                            Power (
                            New York
                        , 1964); Arthur J. Vidich and Joseph Bensman, Small Town in Mass
                            Society: Class, Power and Religion in a Rural Community (
                            Princeton
                        , N.J., 1958); W. Lloyd Warner and others, Democracy in Jonesville: A
                            Study in Quality and Inequality (
                            New York
                        , 1949); W. Lloyd Warner, ed., 
                            
                                Yankee City
                            
                         (
                            New Haven
                        , Conn., 1963). Although the Lynds' "elitism" no longer
                        enjoys the popularity it once did, a recent study suggests that local elites still exercise a
                        considerable amount of subtle control in a community. Matthew A. Crenson, The
                            Un-Politics of Air Pollution: A Study of Non-Decisionmaking in the Cities (
                            Baltimore
                        , 1971). For the impact community power studies have had on historians, consult
                        David C. Hammack, "Problems in the Historical Study of Power in the Cities and Towns of
                        the 
                            United States
                        , 1800–1960," American Historical Review,
                        LXXXIII (April, 1978), 323–49.
               
                  7 Robert A. Dahl, Who Governs? Democracy and Power in an
                            American City (
                            New Haven
                        , Conn., 1961). Dahl developed his thesis by studying 
                     New Haven, Connecticut
                  , but one of his students applied it to 
                            Muncie
                        . Nelson W. Polsby, Community Power and Political Theory (
                            New Haven
                        , Conn., 1963), 14–24; Nelson W. Polsby, "Power in 
                            Middletown
                        : Fact and Value in Community Research," Canadian Journal of
                            Economics and Political Science, XXVI (November, 1960), 592–603.
               
                  8 Ritchie P. Lowry, Who's Running This Town?
                            Community Leadership and Social Change (
                            New York
                        , 1965).
               
                  9 Daniel J. Elazar, Cities of the 
                                Prairie
                            : The Metropolitan Frontier and American Politics (
                            New York
                        , 1970), 367–416, 448–53. For a similar thesis see
            
            
            A combination of Elazar's federalism and Lowry's version of pluralism presents an
                    alternative model of community decision making to the Lynds' conception of elite rule in 
                        Muncie
                     during the 1930s. No single group in 
                        Muncie
                     could exercise its influence in local governmental affairs with any consistency. All
                    too often the result was a deadlock in the decision-making process. When competing factions of
                    municipal officials or interest and pressure groups were unable to arrive at answers to issues
                    facing the community, the intervention of external political or governmental forces prompted
                    solutions. Three major issues important to 
                        Muncie
                     during the 1930s—the debate over the municipal airport, the disagreement
                    about funding Civil Works Administration projects, and the decade-long controversy concerning river
                    pollution and sewage treatment—will be used to test this revised hypothesis of political
                        influence.10
            
            One preliminary point must be made: much of the outside intervention in municipal affairs during the
                    1930s was the result of the Great Depression and Franklin D. Roosevelt's New Deal. Federal
                    intrusion in local affairs did exist prior to the 1930s. On November 12, 1927, for example, thirty
                    federal agents "invaded" 
                        Muncie
                     to close some forty speakeasies, cigar stores, and poolrooms which were in violation of
                    the Prohibition Amendment. Such action was necessary because municipal police officers had failed to
                    carry out their duties. As historian Paul A. Carter has noted, "the Noble Experiment was
                    among other things an enormous augmentation of the power of the Federal Government."11 Other than law enforcement, however, federal interposition was limited prior
                    to 1933. The depression decade marked a significant change in the relationship between
                    municipalities and 
                        Washington
                    , D.C.12
            
            
               Don Martindale and R. Galen Hanson, Small Town and the Nation: The Conflict of
                            Local and Translocal Forces (
                            Westport
                        , Conn., 1969).
               
                  10 For a more detailed analysis of local politics and decision making in 
                            Muncie
                         in the 1920s and 1930s, see Carrolyle M. Frank, "Politics in 
                            Middletown
                        : A Reconsideration of Municipal Government and Community Power in 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana, 1925–1935" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of
                        History, Ball State University, 1974). A summary of the thesis of this work is found in
                        Carrolyle M. Frank, " ‘
                            Middletown
                        ’ Revisited—Reappraising the Lynds' Classic Studies
                        of 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana," Indiana Social Studies Quarterly, XXX
                        (Spring, 1977), 94–100.
               
                  11 Paul A. Carter, Another Part of the Twenties (
                            New York
                        , 1977), 102; 
                            Muncie
                        
                        Evening Press, November 12, 1927; 
                            Muncie
                        
                        Morning Star, November 13, 1927.
               
                  12 Daniel J. Elazar has argued that the increase in federal-municipal
                        cooperation was the result of a gradual process rather than an abrupt transition. Elazar,
                        "Urban Problems and the Federal Government: A Historical Inquiry," Political Science Quarterly, LXXXII (December, 1967),
                    505–25.
            
            
            The first of the three issues regarding local decision making, the municipal airport affair,
                    originated early in 1928 when the 
                        Muncie
                     Chamber of Commerce established an aviation committee. The Chamber desired to promote
                    development of a publicly owned municipal airport to supplement a small, private flying field that
                    had served the city since 1925.13
                    
                        Muncie
                    's thirteen-man, all Republican city council gave the idea a warm reception.14 Yet the council did little for the next year and a half to advance the
                    project.
            The council's inertia was shaken only when the Indiana General Assembly passed a law in 1929
                    providing for the creation of a department of aviation empowered to "acquire, establish,
                    construct, improve, equip, maintain, control, lease and regulate municipal airports and landing
                    fields. …"l5 Speaking in May of that year before a banquet
                    of the 
                        Muncie
                     Chamber of Commerce, Hoosier Governor Harry G. Leslie admonished the city council to
                    provide municipal air services for the community.16 These efforts on the part of
                    outside forces, in the form of state officeholders, spurred the 
                        Muncie
                     city council into adopting an ordinance providing for a municipal department of
                        aviation.17 Republican Mayor John C. Hampton appointed Abbott L. Johnson,
                    II—already serving as chairman of the Chamber of Commerce aviation
                    committee—to head the new department.18 Although the second
                    generation of the Ball family, especially Frank E. Ball, received much of the credit for the
                    promotion of air transportation in 
                        Muncie
                    , Johnson was a key figure. A grandson of one of the founders of Warner Gear and
                    Glascock Brothers, he was a director of both these important local manufacturing firms as well as a
                    flying enthusiast and licensed pilot.19
            
            
               
                  13 W. L. Gruenewald and others, A History of
                                    
                        Muncie and Delaware
                      County (
                            Muncie
                        , Ind., 1953), 71. Unfortunately the minutes of the 
                            Muncie
                         Chamber of Commerce for this period are no longer available.
               
                  14 City of 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana, Council Record No. 26, January 30, 1928, p. 109, February 6, 1928, p. 111 (
                            Muncie
                         City Hall, 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana).
               
                  15 Indiana, Laws (1929), chap. 57.
               
                  16
                        
                            Muncie
                        
                        Evening Press, May 22, 1929.
               
                  17 City of 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana, Ordinance Record No. 7, May 29, 1929, p. 237 (
                            Muncie
                         City Hall, 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana); 
                            Muncie
                         Council Record No. 26, May 29, 1929, p. 153.
               
                  18
                        
                            Muncie
                        
                        Evening Press, June 14, 1929.
               
                  19 C. Walter McCarty and others, eds., Indiana Today (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1942), 361; Roll, Indiana, IV, 133–34. Frank E. Ball,
                        son of the so-called "patriarch" of the famous fruit jar family, Frank C.
                        Ball, was a "pioneer in Hoosier flying circles." Young Ball died at the
                        controls of his airplane in May, 1936, at the age of thirty-three. Ball, Memoirs, 274–88.
            
            
            Five weeks after becoming chairman of the city aviation department, Johnson purchased a 160-acre farm
                    north of 
                        Muncie
                     and donated it to the municipality as a site for the airport.20 In
                    response to requests from the aviation department, the city council in August, 1929, appropriated
                    $27,000 for development of the facility.21 This amount was not nearly
                    sufficient to carry the project to fruition. Before any further action could be taken on the
                    airport, however, a new mayor and city council were inaugurated in January, 1930.
            The new mayor was the irascible George Reynolds Dale, Sr., a Democrat and the muckraking
                    editor-publisher of a weekly newspaper, the 
                        Muncie
                    
                    Post-Democrat.
               22 During the 1920s Dale had waged a courageous
                    campaign against the Ku Klux Klan in 
                        Muncie
                    . His efforts attracted national attention after 
                        Delaware
                     County Circuit Court Judge Clarence W. Dearth, an alleged member of the hooded
                    organization, sentenced the editor to ninety days at the state prison farm for contempt of court.23 Several attempts were made on Dale's life in the mid-1920s as a
                    result of his editorial comments about the Klan and corrupt police officers.24
                    Dale was elected mayor in 1929 as a result of his relentless exposure of graft in the Hampton
                    administration and his promises to clean up the mess in city hall.25 The
                    sixty-two year old editor defeated businessman 
                  
                     20
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, July 20, 1929; 
                                Muncie
                             Ordinance Record No. 7, August 20, 1929, p. 249.
                  
                     21
                            
                                Muncie
                             Council Record No. 26, August 19, 1929, p. 160; 
                                Muncie
                             Ordinance Record No. 7, August 31, 1929, p. 257.
                  
                     22 For an analysis of Dale's career as a journalist and
                            politician see Carrolyle M. Frank, "
                                Muncie
                             Politics: George R. Dale, Municipal Reformer, 1921–1936,"
                            in Dwight W. Hoover and John T. A. Koumoulides, eds., Conspectus of History,
                                1977: Cities in History (
                                Muncie
                            , Ind., [1978]), 34–47.
                  
                     23 David M. Chalmers, Hooded Americanism: The History of
                                the Ku Klux Klan (
                                New York
                            , 1965; paperback ed., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1968), 167, 174; Dale v. State, 198 Ind. 110 (1927);
                            "A Fight for Freedom of the Press," Literary Digest, XC
                            (August 14, 1926), 9; Roll, Indiana, V, 191–92; Hugh Evander
                            Willis, "Punishment for Contempt of Court," Indiana Law
                                Journal, II (January, 1927), 309–14. Judge Dearth was subsequently
                            impeached by the Indiana House of Representatives for his continued harassment of Dale.
                            Indiana, House Journal (1927), 577–78, 700–702.
                  
                     24 Arthur L. Gilliom, Attorney General of Indiana, to the mayor and
                            chief of police of 
                                Muncie
                             and the prosecuting attorney of 
                                Delaware
                             County, December 6, 1926, George R. Dale Papers (Ball State University Library, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana); 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Post-Democrat, March 31, 1922, November 25, 1926.
                  
                     25 W. A. S. Douglas, "The Mayor of 
                                Middletown
                            ," American Mercury, XX (August, 1930),
                            478–86; Frank, "Politics in 
                                Middletown
                            ," 207–71; Martin D. Schwartz, "
                                Middletown
                            's Maverick Mayor," 
                        
                                    Harvard
                                 Guardian, II (November, 1937), 30–36. According to Warren
                            L. Bassett, editor of the Fourth Estate, Dale was one of only three
                            newspapermen serving as mayors of American cities in 1930. Warren L. Bassett to Dale,
                            February 6, 1930, Dale Papers.
               
                     Robert 
                        Denver
                     Barnes, who had the financial support of the Balls and other prominent commercial
                    leaders, who tended to be Republican and who regarded Dale as anathema because of his scathing
                    criticism of them over the years.26
            
            In March, 1930, Johnson's aviation department requested $125,000 from the new
                    city council, nine of the members of which were Democrats, in order to complete construction of the
                    airport. At a public hearing, on March 17, attorney Tod Whipple presented a petition, which he
                    claimed contained three thousand signatures, urging the municipal lawmakers to deny approval of the
                    appropriation because of the depressed state of the local economy. Despite Whipple's
                    protestations, the city council by a margin of ten to three passed an ordinance providing for a bond
                    issue in the amount requested by the aviation department.27
            
            Mayor Dale's views on the airport were not known publicly until March 29, when he
                    unexpectedly vetoed the bond ordinance. Contending that he represented the opinion of 90 percent of 
                        Muncie
                    's citizens, Dale explained that the city was incapable of shouldering such a
                    heavy financial burden at a time when there were more pressing civic demands.28
                    At its April 7 session the council majority mustered only eight votes, thus failing to override the
                    mayor's veto by the required two-thirds margin. Two Democratic councilmen from the south
                    side, working-class section of the city, Clarence R. Hole and Ora T. Shroyer, changed their votes to
                    help sustain the veto.29 Hole defended his reversal on the grounds that he had
                    been besieged with telephone calls, personal visits, and a petition, bearing the names of over two
                    hundred of his constituents, to vote against the measure. Shroyer admitted that he still favored the
                    airport but switched his vote due to pressure from the taxpayers of his ward.30
            
            The mayor's veto of the council's ordinance was not an aberration in the
                    relationship between 
                        Muncie
                    's executive and 
                  
                     26 Six members of the Ball family donated $150 each to
                            Dale's Republican mayoral opponent. 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Evening Press, November 27, 1929. For an example of Dale's
                            editorial castigation of the 
                                Muncie
                             Chamber of Commerce and local businessmen in general, see the 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Post-Democrat, April 20, 1923.
                  
                     27
                            
                                Muncie
                             Council Record No. 26, March 17, 1930, pp. 186–88.
                  
                     28
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Evening Press, March 29, 1930. Dale probably shared the viewpoint of
                            Democratic Councilman Robert Tumelson who referred to the airport project as a playground
                            for the wealthy.
                  
                     29
                            
                                Muncie
                             Council Record No. 26, April 7, 1930, pp. 191–92.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Evening Press, April 8, 1930; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, April 8, 1930.
               
                     legislative branches during the Dale administration. Dale and
                    his council rarely saw eye-to-eye on any major issue confronting the city during the five years the
                    editor-mayor held office. The causes of the conflict between Dale and the city council were numerous
                    and complex. Factionalism within the Democratic party in 
                        Muncie
                    , personality clashes between Dale and leaders of the council, and the mayor's
                    quixotic and uncompromising nature were among the reasons for the differences. From 1930 through
                    1932, ten members of the municipal legislature voted against Mayor Dale consistently—and
                    six of the anti-administration faction were Democrats. During the period 1933–1934, Dale
                    actually gained the support of seven councilmen on most major issues. Yet, the council majority did
                    not back the mayor with any enthusiasm during those last two years.31 The
                    pinnacle of the bitter divisiveness was reached in September, 1932, when the council impeached Dale.
                    The office of mayor was declared vacant on the grounds that Dale was not eligible to retain the post
                    due to his conviction in federal district court for alleged violation of the Prohibition
                        Amendment.32 After seemingly interminable litigation and an eventual pardon
                    from President Franklin D. Roosevelt in December, 1933, Dale was able to remain in office until the
                    end of his term.33 This intense Democratic party factionalism and
                    intra-governmental disharmony in 
                        Muncie
                     were among those reasons why community leaders were unable to resolve local issues
                    without guidance from outside forces.
            After Dale's veto of the municipal airport bond issue in March, 1930, nothing further was
                    done to advance the progress 
                  
                     31 Frank, "Politics in 
                                Middletown
                            ," 578–677. The extent of council opposition to Dale is
                            demonstrated in Guttman scalogram analysis found in ibid.,
                            580–82, 585.
                  
                     32
                            
                                Muncie
                             Council Record No. 26, September 22, 1932, pp. 323–26; Dale v. U.S., 66F. 2d 666 (1933). According to all indications, Dale was framed on
                            charges of prohibition violations and was convicted on the basis of perjured testimony.
                            Bootleggers and gamblers (whom Dale had put out of business), along with political enemies
                            in both parties, appear to have been involved in the contrived case against Dale to get the
                            meddlesome mayor out of the way. Frank, "Politics in 
                                Middletown
                            ," 498–523.
                  
                     33 Dale to Josephus Daniels, February 16, 1934, Dale Papers; Dale v. Common Council, et al., Cause 8192, 
                                Delaware
                             County (Indiana) Superior Court, Civil Order Book 24 (1932); Dale
                                v. Hubert L. Parkinson, et al., Cause 9093, 
                                Delaware
                             County (Indiana) Circuit Court, Civil Order Book 154 (1932); State
                                of Indiana ex rel. Earl Everett v. Dale, Cause 8243, 
                                Delaware
                             County (Indiana) Superior Court, Civil Order Book 24 (1932); State
                                of Indiana v. Dale, Cause 10151, 
                                Delaware
                             County (Indiana) Circuit Court, Civil Order Book 155 (1933). All of 
                                Delaware
                             County Civil Order Books in this footnote are housed in the 
                                Delaware
                             County Court House, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana.
               
                     of the airfield under public ownership. Johnson finally
                    resigned as chairman of the city aviation department in October, 1931. Dale requested and received
                    the resignations of the three remaining members of that body and it became defunct.34 Johnson filed a quiet title suit in January, 1932, in order to regain possession of the
                    160-acre farm he had donated to the municipality on the grounds that the city had not used the
                    property in the manner for which it was intended. In March, 1932, Judge Robert F. Murray of the 
                        Delaware
                     County Superior Court ruled in Johnson's favor.35 With the
                    property once again his, Johnson along with Edmund F. Ball and Frank E. Ball organized a private
                    corporation and commenced development of the site. In September, 1932, the new airport was dedicated
                    to the accompaniment of the "greatest air show 
                        Muncie
                     [had] ever ever seen. …"36
            
            Although the municipal airport issue is not a classic case of Elazar's federalism, it does
                    suggest the pluralistic nature of 
                        Muncie
                     governance. In this particular instance outside forces were not able to get the
                    municipal government to build the airport. The facility was ultimately constructed, but with private
                    funds rather than taxpayers' money. Johnson, the younger members of the Ball family, and
                    the Chamber of Commerce failed to exert enough pressure to get city officials to do their bidding.
                    Mayor Dale, who claimed to represent the majority of 
                        Muncie
                     citizens, managed to thwart powerful business interests. The important point concerning
                    the resolution of the airport issue is that it certainly does not appear to be a prime example of
                    "power elite" in operation.
            The Civil Works Administration projects of the early 1930s provide a second illustration of the
                    inability of 
                        Muncie
                    's business elite to control local government. Since industry in 
                        Muncie
                     concentrated on producers' and consumers' durable
                    goods—automobile parts, foundry products, steel wire, and glass canning
                    jars—it was hit especially hard by the Great Depression. By 1930 one of every four
                    workers in 
                        Muncie
                     had lost his job. Two years later 25 percent of the city's families were on
                    relief, and the community's private and public charitable institutions were staggering
                    under this abnormally heavy burden.37
            
            
               
                  34
                        
                            Muncie
                        
                        Morning Star, October 11, November 5, 6, 1931.
               
                  35
                        Abbott L. Johnson v. City of 
                                Muncie
                            
                  , Cause 7618, 
                            Delaware
                         County (Indiana) Superior Court, Civil Order Book 23 (1932).
               
                  36
                        
                            Muncie
                        
                        Morning Star, March 14, September 11, 1932. The quotation is from ibid., September 11, 1932.
               
                  37 Marilyn A. Domer, "The Development of Federated Fundraising in 
                            Muncie
                        , Indiana, 1925–57" (Ph.D. dissertation, Department of History,
                        Ball
            
            
            Possibly because of the notoriety the city had received from the Lynds' first 
                        Middletown
                     study, volunteer schemes devised in 
                        Muncie
                     to assist the unemployed received nationwide attention. The first of the so-called "
                        Muncie
                     Plans" was sponsored by the Community Garden Association, founded in January,
                    1931. This volunteer group included on its executive committee three members of the Ball
                    family—George A. Ball, E. Arthur Ball, and Mrs. Bertha Crosley Ball. The association
                    promoted the concept of subsistance vegetable gardens, consisting of a "community
                    garden," where men on relief rolls were required to work one day a week in order to receive
                    financial assistance, and "home gardens" from which the products grown belonged to
                    the person tending the plot.38 A second "
                        Muncie
                     Plan" was launched in the spring of 1931 by the local Chamber of Commerce to
                    ease joblessness in the building trades. Through an intensive campaign, the Chamber urged property
                    owners to repair, modernize, or otherwise improve their homes in order to provide work for
                    bricklayers, carpenters, painters, and plumbers. According to journalist James Harold Hawkins,
                    unemployment in the light construction industry was reduced in 
                        Muncie
                     from 70 percent to 20 percent during 1931.39
            
            Soon after his inauguration, Mayor Dale began to advocate municipal public works projects to provide
                    jobs. In April, 1930, he proposed a $100,000 bond issue to improve streets on the
                    periphery of the city in newly annexed territory. Predictably the city council turned a deaf ear to
                    the mayor's idea.40 The feud between Dale and the council, as well as
                    the depressed condition of the local economy and tax base, prevented 
                        Muncie
                    
                    
                  State University, 1968), chap. 4; Lynd and Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition, 7–9, 16, 102–17; "
                                Middletown
                            —Ten Years After," Business Week (May 26,
                            1934), 15–16, (June 9, 1934), 12.
                  
                     38 Erving P. Hayes, Activities of the
                                President's Emergency Committee for Employment (Concord, N.H., 1936), 114; "
                                Middletown
                            —Ten Years After," Business Week (June 9,
                            1934), 12; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, January 25, 1931; Paul Potter, "Gardens Solve Food
                            Problem for the Needy," 
                                Chicago
                            
                            Tribune, August 21, 1931. This "
                                Muncie
                             Plan" was antedated by 
                                Detroit
                             Mayor Hazen S. Pingree's "potato patch plan" during
                            the depression of the 1890s. Melvin G. Holli, Reform in 
                                    Detroit
                                : Hazen S. Pingree and Urban Politics (
                                New York
                            , 1969), 70–72. Bertha Crosley Ball was the widow of Edmund B. Ball.
                            Ironically the revival of home gardening and canning, encouraged by the Ball family
                            dominated Community Garden Association, was a boon to 
                                Muncie
                            's largest industry, Ball Brothers Glass Company. "
                                Middletown
                            —Ten Years After," Business Week (May 26,
                            1934), 16, (June 2, 1934), 18.
                  
                     39 James Harold Hawkins, "How the 
                                Muncie
                             Plan Creates Employment," Ladies Home Journal, XLIX
                            (January, 1932), 22, 39.
                  
                     40
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Evening Press, April 16, 1930; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, April 18, May 6, 1930.
               
                     from taking the initiative in providing jobs through public
                    works projects. With the advent of Roosevelt's New Deal in March, 1933, however, federal
                    funds gradually became available to communities for work relief. Dale was not hesitant about taking
                    advantage of 
                        Washington
                    's generosity.
            In mid-November, 1933, the Roosevelt administration established the Civil Works Administration (CWA)
                    to provide localities with federal funds for small-scale, "make-work" projects
                    which required a minimum of planning and could be implemented quickly.41 After
                    attending a conference in 
                        Indianapolis
                     on November 17, where Democratic Governor Paul V. McNutt explained procedures for
                    acquiring funds, Dale began applying for CWA appropriations. By virtue of his position as 
                        Delaware
                     County chairman of the Governor's Commission on Unemployment Relief, E. Arthur
                    Ball was placed in charge of CWA operations in 
                        Muncie
                    . At the time he assumed this responsibility, Ball was considered an
                    "independent" Republican, but in the spring of 1934 this son of staunch Republican
                    Frank C. Ball converted to the Democracy.42
            
            Many of 
                        Muncie
                    's initial CWA projects were of the "leafraking" variety, but
                    by November 25, 1933, when the first weekly payroll arrived, over four hundred men were employed on
                    more substantial community improvements. Among the important CWA endeavors in 
                        Muncie
                     were: the building of an earthen levee and flood prevention wall along White
                        River; 
                  
                     41 Searle F. Charles, Minister of Relief: Harry Hopkins
                                and the Depression (
                                Syracuse
                            , N.Y., 1963), 47–65; Arthur M. Schlesinger, Jr., The
                                Age of Roosevelt: The Coming of the New Deal (
                                Boston
                            , 1959), 263–78; Robert E. Sherwood, Roosevelt and
                                Hopkins: An Intimate History (
                                New York
                            , 1948; paperback ed., 
                                New York
                            , 1950), 44–57. CWA was intended to be a federal operation from top
                            to bottom. Nevertheless standard monographs on the New Deal generally have overemphasized
                            the centralization of CWA and the direct federal control the agency exercised. Neglected by
                            these accounts are the important planning, recommendation, and supervisory roles of local
                            governments. See for example James N. J. Henwood, "Experiment in Relief: The Civil
                            Works Administration in 
                                Pennsylvania
                            , 1933–1934," 
                        
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 History, XXXIX (January, 1972), 69.
                  
                     42
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            News, November 17, 1933; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, November 18, 1933; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Post-Democrat, June 1, 8, 1934. Just thirty-eight years old when he became
                            CWA director, Arthur Ball had interrupted his studies at Yale University to serve as first
                            lieutenant of infantry in 
                                France
                             during World War I. Returning to 
                                Muncie
                             he became treasurer of Ball Brothers Glass Company in 1919. He also helped to
                            found 
                                Delaware
                             Post No. 19 of the American Legion and was elected state commander in 1923.
                            Ball was a member of those organizations to which 
                                Muncie
                            's business and social elite were expected to belong, including the
                            Chamber of Commerce, the 
                                Delaware
                             Country Club, the Kiwanis, the Masons, and the Shrine. Haimbaugh, History of 
                                    Delaware
                                 County, II, 656–57; Roll, Indiana, III,
                            6–7.
               
                     erection of permanent bleachers and a Scoreboard at the
                    McCulloch Park baseball diamond; removal of over eleven miles of abandoned trolley-car tracks;
                    grading and gravelling of unimproved streets; installation and repair of traffic lights; remodeling
                    and painting of city hall and five fire stations; and, the largest single enterprise, construction
                    of a swimming pool at Tuhey Park.43
            
            Normally united in their opposition to the Dale administration, the editors of 
                        Muncie
                    's two Republican daily newspapers apparently held opposite opinions of local
                    CWA activities.44 Frank E. Harrold, editor of the Morning
                    Star, praised the creation of jobs for the unemployed, but expressed concern that allocation of
                    federal funds for CWA might jeopardize "
                        Muncie
                    's one big project … the building of intercepting sewers and a
                    sewage disposal plant."45 Assured that the sewer project, for which the
                    city was seeking a one-million dollar grant and loan from the Public Works Administration, was not
                    endangered simply because 
                        Muncie
                     was already receiving other federal subsidies, Harrold urged the city to get all the
                    money it could from 
                        Washington
                    , "so long as we do not overburden ourselves with costs for
                        materials."46 Early in December, 1933, the Star
                    offered its congratulations to local officials for their harmony in promoting the CWA program:
                        
                        Under the guidance of E. Arthur Ball, … all units of government in 
                                Delaware
                             County are now co-operating as they have not co-operated before with the result
                            that hundreds of men are being paid real money in the form of wages and the city and county
                            are going to get some worth while improvements at a considerably lower cost than would have
                            been possible in normal times. Right now the taxpayers are getting a good example of what
                            can be done when units of government work together for the benefit of the community.47
                  
                    
                    
                  
                     43 Civil Works Administration Files, Indiana, 
                                Delaware
                             County, Project No. 47, 79, 574, 1525, 1529–32, 1534–37,
                            1545, 1893 (National Archives, microfilm); 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, November 26, 1933.
                  
                     44 The 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, part of the Star League chain, was
                            published by former Hoosier John C. Shaffer of 
                                Chicago
                             and edited by Frank E. Harrold. Frank C. Ball once had held controlling
                            interest in the Morning Star, and the Ball family retained partial
                            ownership after Shaffer took charge. Haimbaugh, History of 
                                    Delaware
                                 County, I, 278; Claude G. Bowers, Beveridge and the
                                Progressive Era (
                                New York
                            , 1932), 164–65; Phillips, Indiana in Transition,
                            116, 527–28. Until his death in 1932, Colonel George B. Lockwood owned the 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Evening Press. A former Munsonian living in 
                                Washington
                            , D.C., Lockwood was also publisher of the monthly National
                                Republican. The editor of the Press was Wilbur E. Sutton who assumed that
                            responsibility in 1918. Haimbaugh, History of 
                                    Delaware
                                 County, II, 583–84; Frank McKinley Hubbard and others,
                            eds., A Book of Indiana (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1929), 422, 461; McCarty, Indiana Today, 159, 390; Roll, Indiana, IV, 146.
                  
                     45
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, November 22, 1933.
                  
                     46
                            Ibid., November 26, 1933.
                  
                     47
                            Ibid., December 5, 1933.
               
                     Harrold might have added that the unaccustomed rapport among
                    local governmental units had been stimulated by an external entity, the Roosevelt administration.
                    According to Dale, Wilbur E. Button, editor of the 
                        Muncie
                    
                    Evening Press, did not share Harrold's enthusiasm for CWA. Supposedly
                    Sutton was particularly critical of the construction of a concrete retaining wall along
                        White River. Dale did not elaborate as to the cause of Button's
                    opposition to CWA efforts, but he did suggest that the Press editor was
                    disenchanted with the New Deal in general.48 Curiously Sutton made no reference
                    to CWA in his daily editorial column.
            CWA provided federal funds to pay for labor, while the city contributed money for equipment and
                    materials. In order for the municipality to finance its share of the agreement, Mayor Dale requested
                    that the city council pass a $100,000 bond issue. As eager in this case to take advantage
                    of the federal largesse as Dale, the usually antagonistic council temporarily put aside its quarrel
                    with the mayor and unanimously approved the bond issue on December 11, 1933.49
                    Adoption of the bond issue by the city was one matter; getting someone to purchase the bonds were
                    quite another story. When the city offered the bonds for sale on December 29, there were no bidders.
                    City Controller Lester E. Holloway, Mayor Dale's son-in-law, contended that he had made
                    every effort to persuade local financial institutions to purchase the bonds.50
                    As a result of the Depression, only one bank and an affiliated trust and savings company remained in
                    existence in 
                        Muncie
                    . E. Arthur Ball, George A. Ball, and William H. Ball were members of the board of
                    directors of the Merchants National Bank, while Edmund F. Ball and George A. Ball held identical
                    positions at the Merchants Trust and Savings Company.51 It is not known what
                    attitude CWA director Arthur Ball held, as a member of the board of the Merchants National Bank,
                    concerning the purchase of the 
                  
                     48
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Post-Democrat, February 9, 1934.
                  
                     49
                            Ibid., November 24, 1933; 
                                Muncie
                             Council Record No. 26, December 11, 1933, pp. 412–13; 
                                Muncie
                             Ordinance Record No. 7, December 11, 1933, pp. 492–97.
                  
                     50
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Evening Press, December 30, 1933. For biographical sketches of Holloway,
                            who later became mayor of 
                                Muncie
                            , see Barnhart and Carmony, Indiana, IV, 573; Roll, Indiana, V, 192.
                  
                     51 Lynd and Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition, 78; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, March 14, 1933, January 10, 1934; Roll, Indiana, III, 3, 6, V, 67, 264. The president of the Merchants National Bank was Frank
                            B. Bernard, reputed to be George A. Ball's financial advisor. John Bartlow Martin,
                                Indiana: An Interpretation (
                                New York
                            , 1947), 82.
               
                     bonds, but both Ball-controlled institutions refrained from
                    investing. Dale insinuated that out-of-town lending establishments were reluctant to buy the bonds
                    after local credit firms had rejected them.52
            
            The mayor was at a loss to explain why 
                        Muncie
                    's banking houses had failed to express confidence in the municipality and its
                    citizens. 
                        Muncie
                     not only had an excellent credit rating, but it was the sole second-class city in
                    Indiana which had not exceeded the constitutional limitation on its bonded indebtedness. Reportedly,
                    local banking officials refused to purchase the bonds because of the low interest rate of 4 1/2
                    percent. They also expressed anxiety concerning the ability of the municipality to liquidate its
                    financial obligations because of a 1932 state law that placed a $1.50 ceiling on the
                    combined tax rate of all local governmental units.53 According to one
                    hypothesis, Dale had antagonized bankers in 
                        Muncie
                     by paying off the city's bonded indebtedness prematurely, thus depriving local
                    credit houses of anticipated interest. The bankers therefore had retaliated by refusing to buy his
                    CWA bonds.54 When asked about this nearly forty years later, Controller Holloway
                    did not substantiate this hypothesis, but he did intimate that local bankers were never friendly to
                    his father-in-law "and were not about to do anything that would help the Dale
                        administration."55
            
            Unwillingness by 
                        Muncie
                    's banks to buy the CWA bonds placed the city in a bind. By the end of 1933 CWA
                    projects employed some sixteen hundred men in 
                        Muncie
                    . Failure to sell the bonds would cancel the projects, and those working on them would
                    have to return to the welfare rolls. Local businessmen had supplied tools and materials to the city
                    on credit after a gentlemen's agreement among the councilmen to pass the bond issue, so the
                    municipality was obligated to produce the money in some manner. The problem was serious enough that
                    William A. "Red" McClellan, a member of the 
                        Muncie
                     board of public works, who was in 
                        Washington
                    , D.C., on other business, inquired into the possibility of selling the bonds to the
                    Reconstruction 
                  
                     52
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Post-Democrat, February 16, 1934.
                  
                     53 Indiana, Laws (1932), Special Session, chap. 10; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Evening Press, January 3, 1934; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Post-Democrat, December 29, 1933. Dale complained that in spite of the
                            $1.50 tax law, local banks had recently purchased $216,750 worth of
                            bonds issued by Center Township (in which 
                                Muncie
                             is located) to cover poor relief costs.
                  
                     54 Schwartz, "
                                Middletown
                            's Maverick Mayor," 35.
                  
                     55 Author's interview with Lester E. Holloway, June 3, 1972, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana.
               
                     Finance Corporation (RFC). That avenue likewise proved to be
                        unproductive.56
            
            Eventually Controller Holloway managed to dispose of the CWA bonds. In February, 1934, the 
                        Muncie
                     firemen and policemen pension fund trustees subscribed to $36,000 worth of
                    the bonds; the balance of these securities finally went to the C. W. McNear Bonding Company of 
                        Chicago
                     in April, 1934.57 Until the bonds were purchased, Mayor Dale did
                    not miss an opportunity to censure local financiers for their failure to help provide employment for
                    the jobless. He accused the bankers of "Sell[ing] 
                        Muncie
                     Short,"58 and singled out the "so-called
                    philanthropic Ball family" for especially bitter denunciation.59 Dale
                    charged that the moneyed elite of 
                        Muncie
                     had rejected the CWA bonds in order to discredit his administration.60
            
            Despite adverse circumstances the persistent mayor and his city controller managed to salvage the CWA
                    projects in 
                        Muncie
                    . Before the CWA program terminated in the spring of 1934, the federal government spent
                    an estimated $407,976 in 
                        Muncie
                     and its immediate environs.61 The program provided temporary
                    employment for over sixteen hundred men during the winter of 1933–1934. Thus, when local
                    economic conditions and a hostile city council prevented Dale from fulfilling his public works
                    objectives, he was able to turn to a beneficent federal government. When 
                        Muncie
                     bankers and wealthy industrialists failed to cooperate with the CWA program, the mayor
                    looked to 
                        Chicago
                     for financial assistance. Dale, therefore, neutralized the negative influence of 
                        Muncie
                    's vaunted power elite by appealing successfully to agencies and institutions
                    beyond the boundaries of the community.
            The final example of this "pluralism-federalism" interpretation of community power
                    in 
                        Muncie
                     encompassed a longer period of time and was even more complex than the two previously
                    cited episodes. The White River, which bends through the 
                  
                     56
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Evening Press, December 30, 1933; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, December 31, 1933. For the background and purpose of RFC,
                            see especially Jesse H. Jones with Edward Angly, Fifty Billion Dollars: My
                                Thirteen Years with the RFC, 1932–1945 (
                                New York
                            , 1951); Gerald D. Nash, "Herbert Hoover and the Origins of the
                            Reconstruction Finance Corporation," 
                        
                                    Mississippi
                                 Valley Historical Review, XLVI (December, 1959), 455–68.
                  
                     57
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Evening Press, February 14, 1934; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Post-Democrat, April 20, 1934.
                  
                     58
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Post-Democrat, January 12, 1934.
                  
                     59
                            Ibid., April 20, 1934.
                  
                     60
                            Ibid., February 16, 1934.
                  
                     61 See CWA records cited in note 43.
               
                     northern portion of 
                        Muncie
                    , had become badly polluted with domestic and industrial wastes. Although Robert Lynd
                    found the condition of the river deplorable when he first visited the city in 1924, nothing had been
                    done to improve the situation by the time he returned in 1935. Living along the north bank of the
                    river in a row of stately mansions, the Ball family had long agitated for sewage reduction in the
                    watercourse. Property owners in the working-class south side section of 
                        Muncie
                    , however, were reluctant to help finance a sewage system that would benefit primarily
                    the Balls and other wealthy businessmen who inhabited the upper-class north side residential area.
                    Thus city councilmen from the south side failed to support proposals that would improve the color,
                    odor, and purity of White River. The Lynds, despite acknowledgement that south
                    siders had been able to obstruct a municipal sewage treatment program, saw no reason to alter their
                    concept of elite rule in 
                        Muncie
                    .62 Yet Nelson W. Polsby, in his analysis of 
                        Middletown
                    , regarded the ability of the city's working class to block the sewer project
                    desired by upper-class business interests as an excellent indicator of pluralism.63
            
            Cheered on by the local Izaak Walton League, the all-Republican 
                        Muncie
                     city council in March, 1926, had established a river committee—composed
                    completely of south siders—to consider the prospects of sewage treatment. Following this
                    initiative, the city planning commission—consisting entirely of north side
                    residents—agreed to spend $3,000 to conduct a detailed survey of the river
                    pollution problem.64 In April, 1927, Pearse, Greeley, and Hanson, the 
                        Chicago
                     engineering firm hired by the city planning commission, delivered its report. These
                    consultants recommended construction of an intercepting sewer system that would carry waste material
                    to a sewage reduction plant to be built west of the city. Estimating the cost of the project at
                    $1,306,100, the 
                        Chicago
                     engineers proposed that the municipality create a department of public 
                  
                     62 Lynd and Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition, 340–41. The Lynds saw the dichotomy between
                            north side and south side as part of the major cleavage that separated citizens of 
                                Muncie
                            —the division between the city's business class and working
                            class.
                  
                     63 Polsby, Community Power and Political Theory,
                            19–20; Polsby, "Power in 
                                Middletown
                            ," 600.
                  
                     64
                            
                                Muncie
                             Council Record No. 26, March 1, 1926, p. 25; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, September 21, 1926. Although all nine members of the city
                            planning commission lived on the north side, none of them could be considered as part of 
                                Muncie
                            's business-class elite. Emerson's 
                                    Muncie
                                 Directory and 
                                    Delaware
                                 County Gazetteer, 1927–28 (
                                Cincinnati
                            , 1927), 13, 137, 159, 169, 308, 315, 338, 488, 590.
               
                     sanitation—constituting a separate taxing
                    district—to construct the sewage system.65 Acting on the report, the
                    river committee suggested in September, 1927, that an ordinance be introduced to establish such a
                    department. However, in January, 1928, after a public hearing held the previous month, the river
                    committee reversed its position.66
            
            At this point, north side Councilman Frank W. Budd, a member of the city's planning
                    commission, proposed that a blue ribbon committee of five prominent citizens be chosen to offer
                    guidance to the city council. Selected from Budd's list of twelve economic and social
                    notables were George A. Ball and four other distinguished gentlemen.67 Since all
                    of the appointees to this "special citizens' sewer committee" were
                    residents of the north side, the council corrected the "oversight" by adding five
                    taxpayers from the south side.68 In May, 1928, this blue ribbon panel, despite
                    its somewhat more heterogeneous composition, recommended the establishment of a department of public
                        sanitation.69 Despite the stand of Mayor Hampton, the city planning
                    commission, and the sewer committee in favor of the creation of such a department, the city council
                    in July, 1928, acting on the advice of its river committee, defeated the ordinance that would have
                    established the new taxing district. Five of the eight negative votes cast came from south side
                    councilmen. A week later the council decided to place the municipal board of public works in charge
                    of the sewer project.70 Nothing further was accomplished during the Hampton
                    mayoralty. Thus, a Republican administration and an all-Republican city 
                  
                     65 Pearse, Greeley, and Hanson, Engineers, "
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana: Report on Intercepting Sewers and Sewage Disposal, April,
                            1927" (mimeographed, 
                                Chicago
                            , 1927), 46–57, 77–79, 125–27.
                  
                     66
                            
                                Muncie
                             Council Record No. 26, September 12, 1927, p. 93, December 12, 1927, p. 103; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Evening Press, January 3, 1928.
                  
                     67
                            
                                Muncie
                             Council Record No. 26, January 30, 1928, p. 110; February 6, 1928, p. 111. Also
                            appointed to the committee were Myron H. Gray, an attorney and bank director; J. Lloyd
                            Kimbrough, general manager and treasurer of the Indiana Bridge Company; A. Herbert Kruse,
                            president of the People's Trust Company; and Philip W. McAbee, president of the
                            Hemingray Glass Company. Haimbaugh, History of 
                                    Delaware
                                 County, II, 325, 594, 605–608; Hubbard, A Book
                                of Indiana, 450, 470.
                  
                     68
                            
                                Muncie
                             Council Record No. 26, March 5, 1928, p. 115. Included among the new members of
                            the special committee were a foreman at Ball Brothers, a foreman at Hemingray Glass, a bank
                            cashier, a druggist, and John M. Stetter, president of the 
                                Muncie
                             Cap and Set Screw Company. Emerson's 
                                    Muncie
                                 Directory. … 1927–28, pp. 310,
                            437, 475, 481; Haimbaugh, History of 
                                    Delaware
                                 County, II, 201–202.
                  
                     69
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Evening Press, May 15, 1928.
                  
                     70
                            Ibid., July 3, 1928; 
                                Muncie
                             Council Record No. 26, July 9, 1928, p. 129.
               
                     council failed to provide the sewage disposal system so
                    earnestly desired by the predominantly Republican, north side, business community.
            When Dale became mayor in 1930, he immediately vowed that the sewer project would never be started
                    while he was in office. As editor he had opposed construction of the sewage system because he feared
                    that the one million dollar endeavor would be an irresistable opportunity for graft for the already
                    corrupt Hampton administration. As mayor he opposed the sewage system because the city could not
                    afford it. Dale contended that most of the pollution in the river was the result of untreated
                    industrial discharge. Therefore, he argued, if 
                        Muncie
                    's industries would stop polluting, a sewage reduction plant would be
                        unnecessary.71
            
            Dale had been in office for less than a month when Dr. William F. King, secretary of the Indiana
                    State Board of Health, began to pressure him to take immediate steps to prevent continued defilement
                    of White River. The mayor refused, beginning a two-year confrontation between
                    Dale and King, which often assumed the stature of a farce.72 King received
                    ammunition for his offensive against the 
                        Muncie
                     mayor when in October, 1930, the State Department of Sanitary Engineering concluded a
                    five-year study of White River. Describing the waterway as having "the
                    appearance and odor of an open sewer," the report charged that contamination by 
                        Muncie
                     rendered the drinking water of Anderson unsafe for human consumption. The report also
                    substantiated Dale's claim that industry contributed heavily to the pollution. The Ball
                    Brothers Paper Mill and the Kuhner Packing Company, in which the fruit jar family had financial
                    investments, were among the chief culprits.73 Unable to daunt Dale with evidence
                    that 
                        Muncie
                     was in gross violation of the state's anti-pollution laws, 
                  
                     71
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Post-Democrat, March 18, May 17, June 24, July 1, 1926, December 21, 1928,
                            June 26, August 7, 21, 1931.
                  
                     72 James M. Ogden, Opinions of the Attorney-General,
                                Indiana … January 1, 1929-January 1, 1931 (Fort 
                                Wayne
                            , Ind., 1931), 782–86; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Evening Press, January 27, February 4, September 3, 30, 1930, April 7,
                            1931; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, February 4, September 27, 30, October 1, November 5, 13,
                            1930, July 10, 1931, May 27, 1932. On one occasion when the state health board issued a
                            decree designated as Rule 75, Dale promulgated his own Rule 76 ordering "Dr. King
                            to keep his nose out of our pet sewer." 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Evening Press, January 19, 1931.
                  
                     73 Indiana State Board of Health, Division of Chemistry, Department of
                            Sanitary Engineering, "Report of Cooperative Sanitary Survey of White
                                River: 
                                Muncie
                             to Anderson, 1925–30" (mimeographed, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1930), 2, 3–4, 20, 23–26, 28–29, 31, 33,
                        82.
               
                     King appealed to the city council. Hubert L. Parkinson, council
                    president and north side Democrat, responded that the municipal solons were sympathetic to
                    King's objectives but that the mayor constituted an insurmountable obstacle to sewer
                        construction.74 Thus as late as August, 1932, outside forces were unable to
                    persuade Mayor Dale of the necessity of building an expensive sewage treatment system. Legislation
                    adopted by the federal and state governments that year not only weakened Dale's adamant
                    opposition but converted the mayor into one of 
                        Muncie
                    's leading advocates of sewage disposal reform.
            In January, 1932, Congress created the Reconstruction Finance Corporation (RFC) and later authorized
                    that agency to extend loans for local, self-liquidating, public works. That same year in August the
                    Indiana General Assembly passed a law (amended in 1933) enabling Hoosier municipalities to build
                    sewage systems financed by special revenue bonds which could be sold to RFC.75
                    Since the revenue bonds could be liquidated out of a special fund accumulated from fees paid by
                    sewer users, Dale envisioned construction of a sewage system without an increase in city taxes.76 Before 
                        Muncie
                     made a formal offer to sell one million dollars worth of bonds to RFC, however, the New
                    Deal Congress in June, 1933, established the Public Works Administration (PWA). Congress empowered
                    the new agency to lend up to 70 percent of the cost of non-federal, public works, while the
                    remaining 30 percent could be donated as outright grants. From July, 1933, to March, 1939, 65
                    percent of the new sewage treatment plants in the 
                        United States
                     were built with financial assistance from PWA.77
            
            In November, 1933, the city of 
                        Muncie
                     presented an application for a PWA grant and low-interest loan. Two months later, PWA
                    awarded $1,060,000 to the municipality, $270,000 
                  
                     74 Hubert L. Parkinson to William F. King, January 17, May 19, 1931,
                            Indiana State Board of Health, Division of Water Pollution, Survey Section Files (Indiana
                            State Board of Health Building, 
                                Indianapolis
                            ). Parkinson was the leader of the Democratic faction of the council which
                            opposed Dale. The animosity between the two had existed since at least early 1924. 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Post-Democrat, February 8, August 8, 22, September 12, 1924.
                  
                     75 Indiana, Laws (1932), Special Session, chap. 61;
                            Indiana, Laws (1933), chap. 187.
                  
                     76
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, August 31, 1932; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Post-Democrat, September 2, 1932.
                  
                     77 Harold L. Ickes, Back to Work: The Story of PWA (
                                New York
                            , 1935), 12–16, 41–47, 60–66,
                            235–55; Public Works Administration, America Builds: The Record of
                                PWA (
                                Washington
                            , D.C., 1939), 1–8, 33, 39, 73–78.
               
                     being in the form of a grant.78 Before 
                        Muncie
                     could receive PWA funds, however, it was necessary for the city council to pass a
                    series of ordinances accepting the federal largesse, authorizing construction of the sewage system,
                    and establishing a rate schedule for sewer users. Continuing its prolonged confrontation with Dale,
                    the council procrastinated for ten months, resulting in cancellation of the grant and loan by PWA.
                    Among the leading opponents of the project was Clarence R. Hole, south side Democrat and chairman of
                    the council sewer committee, who objected to the proposed method of financing PWA bond-debt
                    liquidation because it would impose an inequitable hardship on residents of the south side.79
            
            Despite repeated warnings from PWA officials to take the required action or lose the grant and loan,
                    the council continued to delay. Out of desperation, Dale in August, 1934, appointed a special
                    citizens public safety committee consisting of seventy eminent residents, including George A. Ball
                    and the presidents of almost every civic organization in the community. Although members of this ad
                    hoc body met with representatives of the council, they accomplished nothing.80
                    At last on November 3, 1934, south side Democratic Councilman Emmett Grady introduced a motion
                    "that this thing be brought out and acted on, one way or the other."
                    Grady's motion was defeated by a vote of eight to four.81 Interestingly
                    five of the negative votes were cast by north siders and seven of those voting no were Democrats. It
                    would appear that the vote reflected Democratic 
                  
                     78 Verne K. Harvey to George R. Dale, November 24, 1933, Indiana State
                            Board of Health, Division of Water Pollution, Survey Section Files; 
                                Muncie
                            
                            Post-Democrat, January 5, 1934. When a PWA grant and loan was rescinded,
                            as in the case of 
                                Muncie
                            , the federal agency discarded all the documents pertaining thereto. Therefore
                            no records are available in the National Archives on this matter. Apparently all of the
                            grant application records in 
                                Muncie
                             were also scrapped.
                  
                     79
                            
                                Muncie
                             Council Record No. 26, April 2, 1934, pp. 440–41, August 6, 1934,
                            pp. 461–64.
                  
                     80
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, August 29, 30, 31, 1934. Among the more prominent members of
                            the special committee were Frank B. Bernard, president of the Merchants National Bank;
                            Lester C. Bush, executive-secretary of the Chamber of Commerce; Dr. Clarence L. Bock,
                            president of the 
                                Delaware
                            -
                                Blackford
                             County Medical Society; and John H. Maxon, president of the Central Indiana Gas
                            Company.
                  
                     81
                            
                                Muncie
                             Council Record No. 26, November 3, 1934, p. 478. Because of obvious
                            discrepancies in the voting tabulation recorded in the council minutes, that account was not
                            accepted as official. Rather the tally used by the author was a composite based on the
                            council minutes and the two daily newspapers. The author's version of the November
                            3 decision conforms to a vote taken two days later to accept a report of the sewer
                            committee, which amounted to further delay. Ibid., November 5, 1934, pp.
                            477–80.
               
                     factionalism as much as it did the publicized north side-south
                    side dichotomy. When the council made no further decision concerning the sewer, PWA notified Mayor
                    Dale on December 21, 1934, that the federal grant and loan had been rescinded.82
            
            
               
                        Muncie
                     did build its sewage system before the decade ended. Local political factionalism,
                    geographic bipolarization, and negative pluralism were eventually overcome by the inducement of
                    federal government funding. When Dr. Rollin H. Bunch, the Democrat who succeeded Dale as mayor,
                    first attempted to revive the sewer issue in 1935, he also met with resistance in the city council.
                    "I don't want to even hear anything about the sewer," Councilman Hole
                    exclaimed at a June session and stomped angrily out of the council chamber. He was soon followed by
                    Council President Ora T. Shroyer, another south side Democrat.83 Gradually,
                    however, council opposition melted before Bunch's persuasiveness. In November, 1935, 
                        Muncie
                     submitted an application to Works Progress Administration (WPA), asking for a grant of
                    $349,172 to aid in the construction of an intercepting sewer. WPA approved the request
                    early in 1936.84 Since the funds provided were for labor only, the city had to
                    furnish the money for equipment and materials. To meet this obligation, the city council passed a
                    $180,000 bond ordinance in March, 1936.85 In September, 1937, 
                        Muncie
                     applied for another WPA grant amounting to $457,226 for labor costs toward
                    erection of a sewage disposal plant. Two months after this request was approved, the city council in
                    March, 1938, voted unanimously to float an $880,000 bond issue to cover 
                        Muncie
                    's share of the expenses.86 With encouragement and
                    assistance from the federal government, the city 
                  
                     82
                            
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana, Board of Public Works, Minute Record No. 9, December 21, 1934, p. 28 (
                                Muncie
                             City Hall, 
                                Muncie
                            , Indiana). 
                                Muncie
                            's rejection of a million-dollar subsidy was not as unique as one might
                            imagine. Studies of 
                        Pittsburgh and
                                    Boston
                     , for example, have revealed
                            that parochialism and political factionalism retarded New Deal objectives in those cities as
                            well. Bruce M. Stave, The New Deal and the Last Hurrah: 
                                    Pittsburgh
                                 Machine Politics (
                                Pittsburgh
                            , 1970), 115–16; Charles H. Trout, 
                                Boston
                            : The Great Depression and the New Deal (
                                New York
                            , 1977).
                  
                     83
                            
                                Muncie
                            
                            Morning Star, June 25, 1935.
                  
                     84 Works Progress Administration Files, Indiana, Second District, OP
                            65–52–3611 (National Archives, microfilm).
                  
                     85
                            
                                Muncie
                             Board of Public Works, Minute Record No. 9, March 2, 1936, p. 132; 
                                Muncie
                             Ordinance Record No. 8, March 2, 1936, pp. 222–26.
                  
                     86
                            
                                Muncie
                             Council Record No. 27, March 8, 1938, p. 165; 
                                Muncie
                             Ordinance Record No. 8, March 8, 1938, pp. 425–32; Works Progress
                            Administration Files, Indiana, Second District, OP
                            465–52–2–241.
               
                     of 
                        Muncie
                     finally completed the badly needed sewage disposal system that the elite of the
                    community could not convince the municipality to provide previously.
            Commenting on 
                  
                            Middletown
                         in Transition two decades after its publication, Maurice R. Stein observed
                    that there were signs by 1936 that the power wielded by the Ball family would decline in the near
                        future.87 In his journalistic appraisal of the 
                        Middletown
                     scene in 1944, John Bartlow Martin hinted that the Balls' grip on the
                    community had begun to slip.88 Yet analysis of three major issues important to 
                        Muncie
                     during the 1930s suggests that the Ball family never exercised the control over local
                    affairs that Robert and Helen Lynd indicated in 
                  
                            Middletown
                         in Transition. The Balls especially do not appear to have been omnipotent
                    concerning municipal matters during George Dale's term as mayor from 1930 to 1935. Because
                    Dale could turn for help to agencies and institutions, both private and public, beyond the
                    boundaries of 
                        Muncie
                    , he was able to enhance his influence in relation to that of the Balls. If 
                        Middletown
                     had been an isolated, self-contained city-state, the Lynds' image of Ball
                    family dominance might be more plausible. As Elazar has noted, however, American cities did not
                    exist in a vacuum. Communities such as 
                        Muncie
                     were not autonomous but were parts of a larger and more complex political system. Under
                    these circumstances it was difficult for a local elite to reign supreme.89
                    Nothing in these observations should be construed to insinuate that the Balls were without
                    considerable influence. Certainly their wealth and prestige enabled them to register a great amount
                    of clout in civic affairs. Yet in the community which many scholars tend to regard as the
                    personification of an elite-ridden society, there is room for reasonable doubt concerning the
                    untrammeled authority of the legendary "X family."
            
               
                  87 Maurice R. Stein, The Eclipse of Community: An
                            Interpretation of American Studies (
                            Princeton
                        , N.J., 1960; paperback ed., 
                            New York
                        , 1964), 59–60.
               
                  88 John Bartlow Martin, "Is 
                            Muncie
                         Still 
                            Middletown
                        ?" Harper's Magazine, CLXXXIX (July, 1944), 102.
               
                  89 Elazar, Cities of the 
                                Prairie
                            
                  , 367–69, 383–87.
            
            
            
               MUNCIE, INDIANA: WALNUT STREET LOOKING SOUTH FROM MAIN, 1923
               Reproduced from Frank D. Haimbaugh, ed., History of 
                                Delaware
                             County, Indiana (2 vole., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1924), I, 433.
            
         
         
         
            The Measurement of Social Change in 
                        Middletown
                    
            
            
                    Theodore Caplow
                    ∗
                
            Robert and Helen Lynd accomplished the field work for 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     during 1924 and 1925, and wrote 
                  
                            Middletown
                         in Transition after another field study conducted in 1935.1 The Lynds attempted to retrace the processes of urbanization and modernization that had
                    changed 
                        Muncie
                    , Indiana, from a country town in 1890 to an industrial city by the 1920s. Their two
                    books describe in detail the accompanying transformation of the division of labor, the conditions of
                    work, family life, education, the use of leisure, religious practice, and community politics,
                    together with the attitudes and values sustaining those activities. They discovered massive changes
                    in all areas.
            The research team that returned to 
                        Muncie
                     in 1976–1978, some four decades after the Lynds finished their work, failed
                    to find any fundamental transformations since the publication of 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                    , although there had been numerous quantitative changes and many variations of detail. 
                        Middletown
                     is an industrial city now as it was then, stratified in much the same way, professing
                    the same varieties of denominational Christianity, and alternating control of the local government
                    between the same two parties with about the same degree of corruption. When a particular sector of
                    community life is examined, such as the social activity of adolescents, the resemblance between
                    today's youth and their grandparents2 is almost disturbing. 
                  
                     ∗Theodore Caplow is Commonwealth Professor, Department of
                            Sociology, University of 
                                Virginia
                            . This research project is supported by the National Science Foundation, Grant
                            No. SOC 75–13580. The investigators are Theodore Caplow, Howard M. Bahr, and
                            Bruce A. Chadwick. An earlier version of this paper, in French, appeared in Hommage a Jean Stoetzel (
                                Paris
                            , 1979).
                  
                     1 Robert S. Lynd and Helen Merrell Lynd, 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                : A Study in American Culture (
                                New York
                            , 1929); 
                        
                                    Middletown
                                 in Transition: A Study in Cultural Conflicts, (
                                New York
                            , 1937).
                  
                     2 Metaphorically speaking. By careful estimate, only about one in
                            three of the 
                                Middletown
                             high school students surveyed in 1977 had grandparents among the 
                                Middletown
                             high school students surveyed by the Lynds in 1924.
               
                     High school basketball still provides the community with its
                    occasions of collective excitement. Adolescent social life still depends on access to the family
                    car. Parents and adolescent children still agree on basic values and disagree about fashions. The
                    continuum from conformity to nonconformity is about the same now as it was then, and both ends of
                    the continuum are as well populated now as then.
            The great changes discerned by the latest study seem peripheral to the inner life of the community.
                    The federal government, represented in 
                        Muncie
                     of the 1920s by the post office and a few agricultural technicians, has now become a
                    major presence, operating more than fifty different programs that affect the lives of every 
                        Middletown
                     resident in one way or another. Television, nonexistent in the 1920s, now claims a
                    substantial part of the waking time of both children and adults. It is impossible to ignore the
                    effect of influences emanating from metropolitan centers, but these outside influences are somehow
                    held in their peripheral position and kept separate from local institutions. Pornographic magazines,
                    for example, are freely available to the entire population and indeed constitute the most popular
                    recreational reading for male adolescents, who also have unlimited access to pornographic books and
                    motion pictures; there is a "sex shop" on 
                        Middletown
                    's new downtown mall. The clandestine fantasies of the 1920s have become public
                    entertainment in the 1970s, but no corresponding revolution in sexual norms has occurred. The same
                    rules of conduct still prevail, although they are somewhat less strictly enforced. The resistance to
                    outside influence appears in other institutional sectors. Local norms and values appear to change
                    much more slowly than those promulgated by government agencies and the mass media, and many of the
                    behavior patterns observed in 
                        Middletown
                    's homes and work places are indistinguishable from those observed by the Lynds
                    a half century ago.
            One piece of evidence for the stability of social values and norms in this community is provided by
                    an attitude questionnaire administered to the entire high school population of 
                        Muncie
                     in the winter of 1977. It included twenty items taken from a questionnaire administered
                    by the Lynds to the high school population fifty-three years earlier.3 The
                    twenty value 
                  
                     3For a fuller report of this replication, see Theodore Caplow and
                            Howard M. Bahr, "Half a Century of Adolescent Attitudes: Replication of a 
                                Middletown
                             Survey by the Lynds," Public Opinion Quarterly
                            (Spring, 1979), 1–17; and H. M. Bahr, "Changes in Family Life in 
                                Middletown
                            , 1924–1977," Public Opinion Quarterly
                            (forthcoming).
               
                     statements with which 
                        Middletown
                     youth were invited to agree or disagree included statements about religion,
                    international affairs, patriotism, social justice, civil rights, and sources of information.4 Table I shows the percentage of 
                        Middletown
                     students in 1924 and 1977 who agreed with each of the attitude statements presented to
                    both groups.
            
               
                  4Most of the 1924 items were presented verbatim.
            
            
               Table I Proportion of 
                            Middletown
                         High School Students Agreeing with Statements on Various "Public
                        Questions," 1924 and 1977a
               
               
                  Topic and Item
                  Percent Answering "True" (1924) or Agreeing (1977)
               
               
                  
                  1924b
                  
                  1977
               
               
                  
                            Religion
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  1. The theory of evolution offers a more accurate account of the origin and history of
                            mankind than that offered by a literal interpretation of the first chapters of the Bible.
                  28%
                  (372)c
                  
                  50%
                  (843)c
                  
               
               
                  2. Christianity is the one true religion and all peoples should be converted to it.
                  94
                  (521)
                  41
                  (1,410)
               
               
                  3. The Bible is a sufficient guide to all the problems of modern life.
                  74
                  (480)
                  53
                  (900)
               
               
                  4. Jesus Christ was different from every other man who ever lived in being entirely
                            perfect
                  83
                  (526)
                  67
                  (904)
               
               
                  5. The purpose of religion is to prepare people for the hereafter.
                  60
                  (493)
                  56
                  (929)
               
               
                  6. It is wrong to go to the movies on Sunday.
                  33
                  (556)
                  8
                  (964)
               
               
                  
                            International Affairs
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  7. The recent labor government in 
                                England
                             was a misfortune for 
                                England
                             (1977: The labor governments in 
                                England
                             have been a misfortune for 
                                England
                            .)
                  36
                  (240)
                  53
                  (758)
               
               
                  8. The 
                                United States
                             was entirely right and 
                                England
                             was entirely wrong in the American Revolution.
                  40
                  (435)
                  48
                  (499)
               
               
                  9. The Allied Governments in the World War were fighting for a wholly righteous cause
                            (1977: In the Viet Nam War the 
                                United States
                             was fighting for a wholly righteous cause.)
                  83
                  (471)
                  39
                  (425)
               
               
               
                  10. 
                        Germany and Austria
                      were the only nations responsible for causing the
                            World War (1977: North Viet Nam, 
                                China
                            , and the 
                                Soviet Union
                             were the nations responsible for causing the war in Viet Nam.)
                  32
                  (413)
                  54
                  (445)
               
               
                  11. The Russian Bolshevist government should be recognized by the 
                                United States
                             (1977: The Chinese Communist government should be fully recognized by the 
                                United States
                             government.)
                  9
                  (422)
                  42
                  (840)
               
               
                  
                            Patriotism
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  12. The 
                                United States
                             is unquestionably the best country in the world.
                  92
                  (484)
                  75
                  (501)
               
               
                  13. Every good citizen should act according to the following statement: "My
                            country—right or wrong."
                  61
                  (478)
                  50
                  (492)
               
               
                  
                            Social Justice
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  14. It is entirely the fault of a man himself if he does not succeed.
                  47
                  (478)
                  46
                  (1,446)
               
               
                  15. The fact that some men (1977: people) have so much more money than others shows that
                            there is an unjust condition in this country which ought to be changed.
                  30
                  (522)
                  39
                  (901)
               
               
                  
                            Civil Rights
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  16. A pacifist in war time is a "slacker" and should be prosecuted by
                            the government (1977: A pacifist or conscientious objector in war time is a
                            "slacker" who doesn't do his share and should be prosecuted by
                            the government.)
                  55
                  (380)
                  35
                  (437)
               
               
                  17. A citizen of the 
                                United States
                             should be allowed to say anything he pleases, even to advocating violent
                            revolution, if he does no violent act himself.
                  20
                  (504)
                  50
                  (897)
               
               
                  
                            Information Sources
                        
                  
                  
                  
                  
               
               
                  18. The 
                                Middletown
                             newspaper presented a fair and complete picture of the issues in the recent
                            election (1977:. … picture in covering the issues and the candidates in the
                            recent presidential election.)
                  60
                  (318)
                  72
                  (496)
               
               
                  19. Voters can rely upon statements of fact made by political candidates in campaign
                            speeches.
                  5
                  (512)
                  23
                  (470)
               
               
               
                  20. It is safe to assume that a statement appearing in an article in a reputable magazine
                            like the Saturday Evening Post or the American Maeazine
                            is correct. (1977: . … like Time or Newsweek
                            is correct.)
                  50
                  (441)
                  42
                  (500)
               
            
            
               
                  a We did not offer respondents a "no opinion" option but
                        they took it anyway in some cases. The Lynds' format included the option of
                        "Uncertain" as well as "True" and "False."
                        Because of the ambiguity of the "Uncertain" response, we have recalculated the
                        Lynds' published percentages to show the number of respondents who agreed with the item
                        as a proportion of the total who indicated either agreement or disagreement. Thus the
                        percentages and percentage bases in Table I do not agree exactly with those published in 
                     
                                Middletown
                            . The 1977 questionnaire allowed four responses, "strongly
                        agree," "agree," "disagree," "strongly
                        disagree," which were regrouped into "agree" and
                        "disagree" for the present analysis. 
               
                  b Sources for the published figures for 1924 used to compute the
                        percentages and n's in this table are the following pages in 
                            
                                Middletown
                            
                        : religion, pp. 204–205, 316, 318, 319–20; international affairs, pp.
                        200–201; patriotism, p. 200; social justice, pp. 65, 201; civil rights, pp.
                        200–201; and sources of information, pp. 419, 477. 
               
                  c The number of responses—shown in
                        parentheses—varied from question to question because of differential exposure and
                        small differences in rates of nonresponse. Additionally, for reasons of economy, only 50 percent
                        of the 1977 responses were tabulated. The n of responses to individual
                        questions varied in 1924 from 240 to 556; in 1977 from 425 to 1446. 
            
            The Lynds reported that the Christian fundamentalism of late nineteenth-century 
                        Middletown
                     had been severely eroded by 1924, and they apparently expected secularization to
                    continue until religion disappeared. As Table I shows, secularization did continue but in a
                    curiously selective way. The decline in religiosity has been negligible with respect to the
                    essential purpose of religion but has been somewhat greater with respect to the basic tenets of
                    Christian fundamentalism (items 3 and 4). A 20 percent decline over half a century, however, is not
                    spectacular, and about half of the change observed in item 3, a tenet basic to Protestant rather
                    than Catholic doctrine, is probably attributable to the increased proportion of Catholics in the
                    1977 population.5
            
            The proportion of students saying that the theory of evolution offers a more accurate account of the
                    origin and history of mankind than the literal interpretation of the Bible rose from 28 percent in
                    1924 to 50 percent in 1977. It is equally notable 
                  
                     5When the 1977 responses to item three are retabulated for Protestants
                            only, the fifty-three-year decline shrinks to 11 percent.
               
                     that one half of the 1977 respondents still disagreed with the
                    statement. Only with respect to item 2, which might be designated as religious chauvinism, and item
                    6 (the 
                        Puritan
                     Sunday) were there major changes. Only 41 percent of 
                        Middletown
                     students now say that Christianity is the one true religion, and only a tiny minority
                    still regard Sunday movie-going as sinful.
            Although the numerical differences between the sexes are quite small in both sets of responses,
                    female respondents in 1924 showed more religiosity on every item than male respondents, whereas in
                    1977 the small differences by sex in the individual religion items balance each other out.
            The Lynds did not provide a breakdown of responses to their high school questionnaire by social
                    class, but elsewhere in 
                        
                            Middletown
                        
                     they described at length the greater religiosity of the working class compared to the business
                    class. The close association they observed between fundamentalist religion and working class status
                    has been echoed repeatedly in later studies. Yet, a breakdown of the 1977 responses indicated that
                    high school students with fathers in white collar occupations expressed about the same degree of
                    religiosity as students whose fathers followed blue collar occupations. In contemporary 
                        Middletown
                    , the religious values of the business class and the working class, at least as far as
                    they are reflected in high school student responses, seem to be nearly indentical.
            The five items under international politics are the least satisfactory of the set for comparative
                    purposes since, with one exception (item 8), the original statements had to be revised to take into
                    account a current international scene far different from that of the 1920s. In item 7, the
                    translation from 1924 to 1977 was oddly plausible. This was the Lynds' statement that
                    "The recent labor government in 
                        England
                     was a misfortune for 
                        England
                    ." The statement was applicable to 1977 with only a minor change of wording and
                    commanded a higher degree of agreement among students than it did in 1924. Parallels between World
                    War I and the 
                        North Vietnam
                     War attempted in items 9 and 10, however, were obviously weak, and it is doubtful
                    whether the responses tell anything at all about changing social values. It is curious that a much
                    lower proportion believed in the righteousness of the American cause in the 
                        North Vietnam
                     War than in World War I, but a significantly higher proportion attributed total
                    responsibility to the enemy in the 
                        North Vietnam
                     War than in World War I. Additionally, the finding that few students thought the 
                        Soviet Union
                     should be recognized by the 
                        United States
                     in 1924, while 42 percent favored the recognition 
                    of 
                        China
                     in 1977 (item 11) is inconclusive since the situations are not closely comparable.
            Responses were more comparable between 1924 and 1977 on item 8. The proportion of students agreeing
                    that the 
                        United States
                     was entirely right and that 
                        England
                     was entirely wrong in the American Revolution was slightly higher in 1977 than it had
                    been five decades earlier. Almost half of the students agreed with this expression of national
                    chauvinism. The strength of this attitude is confirmed by responses to other items concerning
                    patriotism.
            The two items that tap conventional patriotic attitudes each show small declines from 1924 to 1977 in
                    the proportion of respondents agreeing, but it is striking how high a proportion of agreement
                    remains. Some readers may find it surprising that after all the political episodes of recent years
                    and the disillusion supposedly created by them, three out of four 
                        Middletown
                     high school students believe that the 
                        United States
                     is unquestionably the best country in the world and that half of them accept the slogan
                    of "My country right or wrong" as a categorical imperative. Interestingly enough,
                    the female respondents of 1977 were somewhat less likely to express patriotic attitudes than male
                    respondents, whereas the female respondents of 1924 had been more inclined to the dominant beliefs.
            The impression that the basic political values of 1924 have persisted remarkably into the present era
                    is further supported by the pattern of response to items 14 and 15. Item 14 is a capsule version of
                    the Protestant ethic—"It is entirely the fault of the man himself if he does not
                    succeed." The proportion of students agreeing with the statement in 1977 was the same as in
                    1924, although once again this constancy was achieved by a significant increase in the proportion of
                    males, and a corresponding decrease in the proportion of females, who agreed. Fathers'
                    occupation had no discernible influence upon student responses to this item.
            There was a slight increase between 1924 and 1977 in the proportion of students who favored a change
                    in the existing distribution of wealth (item 15). Neither in 1924 nor 1977 was there much difference
                    between males and females in response to this item. However, fathers' occupation was highly
                    significant here: children of business class families were much less likely to favor a change in the
                    distribution of wealth than those of working class families.
            The above discussion of responses about religion noted that 
                        Middletown
                    's adolescents held much the same religious beliefs  as their grandparents and held them almost as strongly but appeared
                    less inclined to impose these beliefs on others. The same drift toward tolerance appears in the
                    responses to the two items on civil rights. The proportion of students who would prosecute war-time
                    pacifists or conscientious objectors was much lower in 1977 than in 1924, and the proportion
                    favoring unlimited free speech was much higher although still falling short of a majority. The
                    male/female differential increased for both items. Social class evidently exerted an ambiguous
                    influence, with students from white collar families more likely to support the rights of
                    conscientious objectors but less inclined to favor unlimited free speech.
            The questions included three items about students' confidence in sources of information on
                    public issues: one dealing with 
                        Middletown
                    's principal morning newspaper (which has changed very little in format and
                    editorial posture since 1924); one about the campaign speeches of political candidates; and another
                    about national magazines, substituting Time and Newsweek in 1977
                    for Saturday Evening Post and American Magazine in 1924. Again
                    the results controvert the common expectation. The students of 1977 expressed significantly more
                    confidence in the newspaper and campaign speeches as sources of information than did the students of
                    1924. They were less sure about the correctness of statements appearing in national magazines, which
                    may have something to do with the particular examples selected.
            These data, of course, are sparse and incomplete, but they are quantitative data of reasonable
                    quality and probably more reliable than the surmises about the attitudes of our grandparents on
                    which we usually rely when assessing the force and direction of social change. The fifty-three year
                    interval between the two surveys is just about the length of two generations in 
                        Middletown
                     and, indeed, about 30 percent of the respondents in the 1977 sample were in fact the
                    grandchildren of one or more respondents to the 1924 sample. Few of them appear aware of the
                    similarity between their own religious, political, and social attitudes and those of their
                    grandparents. That similarity, so contradictory to current popular beliefs about "future
                    shock" and "the disappearance of traditional values," calls for
                    explanation.
            The principal motor of social change in the twentieth century is modernization, assisted here and
                    there by social revolution and population shifts. 
                        Middletown
                     has not undergone a revolution and its population has been relatively stable. It may
                         be inferred, therefore, that the prevailing rate of social
                    change has been determined by the rate of modernization and, if there has been a deceleration of
                    social change during the past fifty years, it is probably attributable to the slowing down of the
                    modernization process. The next step then is to measure the rate of modernization in 
                        Middletown
                     during the past half century to determine if there was, in fact, a deceleration. This
                    procedure sounds straightforward, but in practice it involves a number of problems.
            Modernization may be defined as the process whereby a contemporary society improves its control of
                    the environment by means of an increasingly competent technology applied by increasingly complex
                    organizations. Note that the process of modernization is held to occur only in nineteenth-and
                    twentieth-century societies and that the definition assumes modernization to be continuous and
                    unidirectional, leaving no room for the possibility that an increasingly competent technology might
                    be applied by decreasingly complex organizations, or the possibility that control of the environment
                    might deteriorate in the presence of increasingly complex organizations. These assumptions have been
                    reasonable up to and including the present, but they can no longer be projected into the future with
                    much confidence.
            To measure the rate of modernization in 
                        Middletown
                     from 1925 to 1975, it is necessary to devise quantitative measures for the implied
                    variable "control of the environment." To do this is to abandon the broad concept
                    of "control of the environment" in favor of specific indicators that report
                    particular kinds of controlling activity but that probably do not tell the whole story about the
                    relationship of man and environment and how that relationship evolved in a high energy social
                    system.
            The statistical measures of modernization used here are not designed to take account of the
                    possibility that the improved control of the environment associated with the unique historical
                    process called modernization works effectively in some but not all sectors of the man-environment
                    relationship. The indicators of modernization do not take account of one important aspect of the
                    history of modernization, namely that a short-term improvement in environmental control may be
                    directly responsible for a long-term deterioration in environmental control. The whaler's
                    control of the environment improves as he progresses from a rowing boat and a handthrown harpoon to
                    a fast motor boat and an explosive lance, but within a few decades his control of the environment
                    deteriorates dramatically  as the whales disappear. Similarly,
                    control of the social environment is greatly enhanced by the intense bureaucratization of
                    governments and other large-scale organizations, but the vulnerability of such organizations to
                    natural and contrived disasters may eventually make them unworkable.
            These dangers are real and serious, but they should not frighten us into denying the ubiquity of
                    technological progress in the modern world and the still increasing availability of a still
                    increasing supply of goods and services to a still increasing population. As Jean
                    Fourastié protested: 
                        A man who, two centuries ago, would not even have learned to read, if he had survived to
                            maturity, profits by his windows, the central heating of his apartment, and the 300,000
                            copies of the newspaper for which he writes, to announce that humanity has arrived at the
                            last stage of barbarism.6
                  
                     Although that sentence was written before the industrialized countries of the Western world
                    had worked themselves into a position where the continued operation of their central heating depends
                    on the uncertain good will of oriental potentates, Fourastié's conclusion
                    remains valid: 
                        We may summarize the effect of technical progress on the material life of man by saying that
                            technical progress liberates men from servile labor, increases the length of their life,
                            enlarges their autonomy with respect to physiological needs and the external environment,
                            permits them to pass from a vegetal phase to a mobile phase, allows the average man to have
                            advanced education, and opens to him the path of intellectual civilization.7
                  
                    
                
            In order to estimate the level of modernization enjoyed by a given society at a given time, Kurt
                    Finsterbusch and the author—in studies of modernization at the 
                        Columbia
                     Bureau of Social Research during the 1960s—experimented with many
                        indicators,8 combined them into a variety of indexes, and finally settled,
                    for methodological convenience, on telephones per capita as our principal measure.9 This measure is obtainable from nearly all countries in reasonably reliable form and tends
                    to put centralized and uncentralized economies on a more even footing than measures of consumer
                    goods such as automobiles or housing. Moreover, its correlations with other indicators of
                    modernization—we identified more than a hundred plausible 
                  
                     6Jean Fourastié, The Causes of Wealth (
                                New York
                            , 1960), 229.
                  
                     7
                     Ibid., 229.
                  
                     8See also Theodore Caplow and Kurt Finsterbusch, A Matrix
                                of Modernization (
                                New York
                            , 1964); and Development Rank: A New Method of Rating National
                                Development (
                                New York
                            , 1967).
                  
                     9Theodore Caplow, "Are the Rich Countries Getting Richer and
                            the Poor Countries Poorer?" Foreign Policy, I (Summer,
                        1971).
               
                     ones—are astonishingly high. Among other indicators
                    are energy consumption per capita, agricultural productivity per acre, industrial productivity per
                    man hour, life expectancy at birth, infant mortality (inverse), physicians per capita, all measures
                    of formal education, the intensity of occupational specialization, calories consumed per capita,
                    durable goods consumed per capita, per capita readership of printed media, per capita exposure to
                    mass media, passenger miles traveled per capita, the ratio of paid vacation to work time, the
                    proportion of the population urbanized, the proportion of the labor force in tertiary occupations,
                    and the inverse of the proportion of the labor force in strenuous occupations.
            Although most indicators of these come in handy quantified form, they suffer from many defects. It
                    can never be safely assumed, for example, that an increase of n units from time
                    period one to time period two has the same social or psychological impact as an increase of n units in the same indicator from time period two to time period three. The
                    indicator may have less, or more, or be incommensurate, depending on the overall shape of the curve
                    and a variety of qualitative factors. To take two examples at random: an increase of 1 or 2 percent
                    in literacy when a society's literacy rate stands close to 100 percent is much more
                    significant than the same percentage increase would have been at an earlier point in the
                    society's history when illiteracy was prevalent. Likewise, a decrease in energy consumption
                    per capita may signal more technological progress than an increase once the supply of energy has
                    begun to run short.
            It is much easier to measure changes in the level of modernization from one period to another than to
                    link such measurements to the subjective experience of participants. The question whether the
                    generation born in 1880 experienced more or less modernization than the generation born in 1930
                    invites a comparison of the subjective experience of one set of persons at one time with the
                    subjective experience of another set of persons at another time, and it is difficult to see how any
                    conclusion drawn from such a comparison could be convincingly verified. The exercise may be worth
                    attempting but not until analysis of the hard data about rates of modernization is completed and the
                    subjective reactions of participants are placed within a solid informational framework.
            Such a framework must take into account the curious arithmetical relationship between absolute and
                    relative increments in a growth curve, especially that:
            
            (1) A constant increment of growth maintained through a series of equal,
                    consecutive, time-intervals results in continuous growth at a continuously declining rate. This is
                    the arithmetic that underlies the law of diminishing returns, the Malthusian theory of food supply,
                    and the history of industrial productivity in the 
                        United States
                    .
            (2) A constant rate of growth maintained through a series of equal, consecutive,
                    time-intervals results in increasing increments of growth from each time-interval to the next. In
                    the early stages of growth at a constant rate, the increases are small but they soon become so large
                    that continued growth at the same constant rate becomes literally impossible. This is the arithmetic
                    behind the Gompertz curve and the numerous curves for the growth of populations, artifacts, and
                    symbols that accelerate for a while and then flatten out.10 It is also the basis
                    of what may be called Khruschev's fallacy, the expectation that a less modernized society
                    with a high growth rate will soon overtake a more modernized society with a lower growth rate.
            Taken together, these two principles suggest that when persons living in a society that has been
                    modernizing for several generations compare their later experiences with their earlier experiences,
                    or their own experiences with those of their parents or grandparents, they will be influenced by two
                    trends that are arithmetically inseparable but psychologically divergent: decreasing rates of change
                    and increasing increments of change. For example, the population of 
                        Middletown
                     increased by 15 percent in the decade ending in 1910 and by only 12 percent in the ten
                    years ending in 1975, but only three thousand people were added to the population in the decade
                    ending 1910 compared to nearly nine thousand people in the later period.11 The
                    increase in motor vehicles in 
                        Middletown
                     from 1960 to 1970 was fourteen thousand while the increase from 1925 to 1935 had been
                    only five thousand, but the increase in the earlier decade represented an annual growth rate of
                    about 6 percent in the stock of vehicles compared to about 3 percent during the later decade.12
            
            The sensation of accelerating social change may be stimulated by focusing on multiplicity. We see a
                    greater number of new vehicles each succeeding year. The sensation of decelerating 
                  
                     10 Derek J. de Solla Price, Little Science, Big
                            Science (
                                New York
                            , 1965).
                  
                     11 Geoffrey K. Leigh, Updated 
                                    Middletown
                                 Trends (
                                Charlottesville
                            , Va., 1977), Table I.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., Table 56.
               
                     change may be stimulated by attention to proportions and
                    ratios. If we have a roughly constant number of friends, relatives, and acquaintances, the number
                    who acquire a car for the first time will decline from year to year. People whose ambience is
                    composed of a relatively small number of people in relatively fixed roles, like stockbrokers and
                    barbers, are likely to be less aware of social change than people whose ambiences are fluid and
                    amorphous, like salesmen and sociologists.
            The foregoing discussion is, of course, grossly oversimplified inasmuch as the changes in social
                    experience associated with modernization are qualitative as well as quantitative. They include new
                    varieties of experience, like television and space travel, and old experiences that acquire new
                    qualities by virtue of scale or technological intensity, like travel on freeways or problem-solving
                    on a computer. Moreover, every sustained growth process affecting human experience has points of
                    inflection at which a small quantitative change is equivalent to a significant qualitative change;
                    for example, that point in the growth of a small community beyond which new settlers no longer
                    attract general notice. These are not trivial phenomena, but in view of the inherent tendencies
                    toward distorted perception we have been reviewing (and others that remain undiscussed, such as the
                    tendency for perceptions of change to be affected by political preferences) we are again well
                    advised to build any qualitative description of social change on a firm foundation of quantitative
                    measurement.
            When these tactics are adopted with regard to the half century of social change between the
                    Lynds' administration of the high school survey in 
                        Middletown
                     in 1924 and the 1977 survey the results are unequivocal. Every quantitative measure of
                    modernization shows an overall deceleration from the 1920s to the 1970s. For example, there were
                    .216 telephones per capita of the 
                        Middletown
                     population in 1925. By the mid-point of the period, 1950, this had increased to .359
                    telephones per capita, equivalent to an uncompounded annual increase of 2.6 percent for the first
                    twenty-five years. From 1950 to 1975 there was a further increase from .359 to .448, an average
                    annual rate of just under 1 percent. From 1970 to 1975, there was actually a slight decline in the
                    number of telephones per capita.13
            
            The trend in hospital admissions—another good indicator of the level of
                    modernization—shows sharper deceleration. 
                  
                     13
                            Ibid., Table 45.
               
                     Hospital admissions per capita in 
                        Middletown
                     rose from .033 in 1925 to .156 in 1950 and to .292 in 1975. The average annual increase
                    was 15 percent during the first half of the period and a little over 3 percent during the second
                    half. This particular trend is especially notable in view of the enormous volume of public funds
                    appropriated for hospital construction and medical care during the second half of the period.
            Passenger automobiles provide a nearly perfect illustration of one of the situations described
                    above—a constant increment of growth resulting in continuous growth at a continuously
                    declining rate. The number of passenger automobiles per capita in 
                        Middletown
                     increased from .266 in 1925 to .487 in 1950 to .747 in 1975, in nearly constant
                    increments of around .010 per year but at an annual rate declining from an average of 4 percent in
                    the first half of the period to 2 percent in the second half.
            Another good indicator of modernization in advanced societies where most young children attend school
                    is the number of adolescents in school compared to those gainfully employed. In the decade 1920 to
                    1930, this ratio for 
                        Middletown
                     increased from .158 to .365 at an average rate of 23 percent per year. In the decade
                    1960 to 1970, it increased from 1.71 to 2.47 at an average rate of 4 percent per year.
            These measures could be multiplied almost indefinitely, but the general finding would in nearly every
                    case be the same. The people of 
                        Middletown
                     have been experiencing decelerating social change. This sober fact, which stands in
                    such glaring contrast to the fevered stereotypes of the "future shock" theorists,
                    goes far to explain the stability of attitudes and values described at the beginning of this essay. 
                        Middletown
                    's adolescents have experienced less social change than their parents and much
                    less than their urbanized grandparents, without taking any account of the cataclysmic transformation
                    experienced by their great grandparents—from a predominantly rural to a predominantly
                    urban society and from an economy based on muscular effort to one dependent on mechanical power.
            As its population growth slows down and as relatively constant increments to the various indicators
                    of modernization show up more clearly as declining rates of change, 
                        Middletown
                     is becoming, for the first time in its history, a place where the present resembles the
                    past and prefigures the probable future. If nothing more, the contemplation of this specimen
                    community may help to quiet some of the apprehensions aroused by futurists whose images of the past
                    are as arbitrary and speculative as their images of the future.
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               "City of the Century": A History of Gary, Indiana. By James B.
                    Lane. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1978. Pp. xi, 339. Map, illustrations, bibliography, sources
                    and notes, index. $12.50.)
            James B. Lane has put together a human interest story of Gary, Indiana. Drawn from Lane's
                    popular weekly newspaper column in the Gary Post-Tribune, the book strives to tell
                    the city's story in dozens of chronologically arranged vignettes. Beginning with the
                    founder, Judge Elbert H. Gary, Lane recounts colorfully and zestfully the trials and triumphs of
                    individual Garyites.
            Founded as a company town by 
                        United States
                     Steel in 1906, Gary has remained a one-industry town for all of its short seventy-year
                    history. Lacking an important state or regional function, not serving as a transportation hub or
                    educational center, and not functioning as a market center for agriculture, Gary's primary
                    purpose has been to transform raw iron ore into steel. Overshadowed by other metropolises such as 
                        Chicago
                     and dwarfed even by Indiana's own metropolis, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Gary never grew beyond its founding purpose.
            One of the results of this peculiar dependency upon one industry was that Gary, the "instant
                    city," passed from birth to adolescence to middle age and into old age and decay in a mere
                    seventy years. Lane does not address these macro questions as such but instead focuses on human
                    interest stories of people who lived through these growth phases of the city's history.
                    Seeking representative residents of the city for each period, he writes of the Arlene Draves murder
                    case, of Tony Zale, John Dillinger, and Tom Harmon in addition to dozens of less renowned citizens.
                    Therein lies both a strength and a weakness of the book. The vignettes hold the reader's
                    attention nicely but sometimes fail to convey the big picture effectively. Lane could have connected
                    his word portraits more directly to the demographic and economic realities of each period.
            One of the most interesting and valuable parts of the book chronicles the political era from Mayor
                    George Chacharis to Mayor Richard C. Hatcher. Seen up close, the "warts and all"
                    picture of Hatcher is considerably less flattering than is his national image. Like most politicians
                    of his time, Hatcher promised more than he could deliver, and his 1960s rhetoric sounds quaintly out
                    of key with the realities of the 1970s. No urban wizard but probably an improvement over his
                    predecessors, Hatcher did the best he could with difficult circumstances. Even so, the stubborn and
                    unyielding character of the urban  malaise soon deflated the
                    mayor's campaign promises. "In 13 months," Hatcher declared,
                    "I've learned there are some problems that have no solution" (p. 295).
                    Perhaps Hatcher's frustrations over Gary lie in the fact that, as Lane writes, the city was
                    founded on high expectations as an "experiment in industrial urban planning, but the city
                    never fulfilled the hopes of its pioneer boosters. Rather in its travail, it came to symbolize the
                    plight of the twentieth-century cities" (p. xi).
            Lane's book makes available at a reasonable price the modern story of Gary.
            
               University of 
                     Illinois,
                                Chicago
                   Circle Melvin G.
                Holli
         
         
            
               
                  
                            Illinois
                        : A Bicentennial History. By Richard J. Jensen. (
                        New York
                    : W. W. Norton & Company, Inc., for American Association for State and Local
                    History, 1978. Pp. xix, 191. Maps, notes, illustrations, suggestions for further reading, index.
                    $8.95.)
            Most books in the States and the Nation series, of which 
                        
                            Illinois
                        
                     is among the latest, have been greeted by the scholarly community with tolerance at best and
                    ridicule at worst. Too personal, brief, episodic, and unanalytical to be good history, they were
                    relegated to that wide readership known as the popular audience. Richard J. Jensen's book
                    is an exception.
            Jensen explains 
                        Illinois
                    ' history in terms of modernization theory. He emphasizes personality types:
                    the southerners who invaded the lower part of 
                        Illinois
                     and who constituted a predominantly traditionalist element, and the northerners,
                    predominately modernists, who settled north of where Interstate 70 is now located. Jensen also
                    attempts to relate the traditionalist-modern model to ethnoreligious groups (the Jews do not fit).
                    He also postulates a postmodern model with evidence derived for the recent past. All of this is
                    heady stuff for a book in a series funded by the National Endowment for the Humanities and intended
                    to provide narrative history or biography.
            The real question is, does Jensen pull it off? Well, he does a fairly good job; he makes a lively
                    case, but in the end he is unconvincing. This may not be his fault. He probably had a shoot-out with
                    the editors of the series and had to compromise by introducing 
                        Illinois
                    ' better-known personalities. (Social scientists have pejorative things to say
                    about practitioners who try to make individuals fit generalizations.) Nevertheless, Jensen certainly
                    raises the level of discourse above that of the  other volumes
                    in the series. As a result, in many ways this is the best interpretive one-volume state history
                    around. It would be a shame if scholars and intelligent lay readers missed it because it appears in
                    a popular series.
            How can Jensen's book be at once among the best of the state histories and at the same time
                    unconvincing: simply because Jensen raises the right questions but cannot answer them in a manner
                    that will win over the bulk of his readers. Every reader will praise his genuine effort to impart
                    meaning and content to events over time, not merely to chronicle them. He will be commended too for
                    not being so simplistic as to paint his regions or groups in monolithic terms. The difficulty will
                    come when readers seek to reconcile much of what he says with what they already know. It is not only
                    that Abraham Lincoln is an anomaly in the nineteenth century, as Jensen points out, but that Henry
                    Horner is even more out of phase. The author's categories for analyzing the twentieth
                    century are too loose to be convincing.
            The reader should be aware that Jensen's suggested further readings, presented at the end of
                    the book, have virtually nothing in common with the sources for his study. The book derives from a
                    deep knowledge of traditional historical studies as well as recent behaviorial works, especially
                    polls and voter analyses. Therefore the book warrants very careful reading because many of
                    Jensen's observations are far from casual; they are based on his own meticulous
                    scholarship. Unfortunately, he occasionally overlooks a bit of evidence that would have made his
                    case more effective. What, for example, could have been more a symbol of 
                        Chicago
                    's modernist leadership than the city's motto, I WILL, or its perhaps
                    now forgotten song, a line or so of which runs: "She aims to be far more than brick or
                    stone/A victory, a bugle forward blown."
            Donald Getsug's photographic essay is a disappointment. He should have read the book. He
                    might have taken some pictures at the corner of 1045 North 
                        California
                     Avenue to explain why Saul Bellows feels that the Puerto Ricans have spoiled the slums
                    or gotten a few shots of what was once downtown East 
                        St. Louis
                    . To get a glimpse of Jensen's argument, Getsug could have helped to explain
                    the differences in tradionalist and modernist by comparing a suburban 
                        Chicago
                     synagogue with a new Protestant church in 
                        Crawford County
                    .
            
               Henry E. 
                            Huntington
                         Library, 
                            San Marino
                        , Calif. Martin Ridge
         
         
         
            
               Daniel Webster. By Irving H. Bartlett. (
                        New York
                    : W. W. Norton & Company, Inc., 1978. Pp. xii, 333. Illustrations, notes, index.
                    $12.95.)
            Few politicians or statesmen have achieved the fame of a Daniel Webster. At a time when the 
                        United States
                     struggled to establish a sense of identity, the "Godlike Daniel"
                    emerged as a potent national symbol, famed for his oratorical prowess and his stirring debates in
                    Congress. Symbol he has remained in most accounts of his life and that of the infant republic. In
                    this graceful and stylistic biography, Irving H. Bartlett tries to place the symbolism in
                    perspective and help readers to see "the man behind the image, who succeeded, failed,
                    laughed, loved and sometimes found himself ensnared in webs of his own making but beyond his
                    understanding" (p. 11). In large measure, Bartlett's venture proves successful; he
                    has brought the reader to a new understanding of this powerful and influential public figure.
            In assessing Webster's public career and private life, Bartlett wants to answer a
                    fundamental and disturbing question: how could a politician so lionized in his own day fail to win
                    the presidency, a prize Webster coveted intensely? Bartlett sees the answer in the nature of the
                    image itself. Webster's status as a powerful, eloquent, and dynamic statesman was often at
                    odds with the democratic tendancies of the era, where political fortunes came to rest on the need
                    for humble origins. Webster may have learned to wear the coonskin cap, but it never fit comfortably.
                    As the supreme orator and senatorial gladiator, Webster was too closely tied to the established
                    structures of wealth and political bureaucracy. His fame became a two-edged sword, able to humble
                    less talented adversaries but always subject to misrepresentation as aristocratic ambition in
                    democratic disguise. Webster's Federalist heritage, his ties to the Second Bank of the 
                        United States
                    , and his chronic financial problems made him an easy target for political enemies.
            Persuasive though Bartlett's analysis is, it does not penetrate very far beneath the surface
                    of the image. The author skillfully unravels the layers of fiscal indebtedness that plagued Webster
                    throughout life yet rarely pauses to speculate about the origin or significance of this spendthrift
                    behavior. Similarly, Bartlett charts Webster's political progress but not his motives nor
                    the compelling irony of the independent, stentorian statesman who placed himself in such debt to his
                    friends and supporters. Such concerns would have carried Bartlett away from political narrative, at
                    which he excels, into the  realm of intellectual and
                    psychosocial history, where he seems uncomfortable. Bartlett's biography is clearly the
                    best one-volume life of Webster. It is stimulating, well-written, and carefully researched. That it
                    raises more questions that it answers is in part a measure of the book's success.
            
               University of 
                     Delaware,
                                Newark
                  
                James C. Curtis
         
         
            
               Lincoln and the Economics of the American Dream. By G. S. Boritt. (
                        Memphis
                    : 
                        Memphis
                     State University Press, 1978. Pp. xxiv, 420. Historiographical essay, notes,
                    bibliography, index. $15.00.)
            This is a book with one over-riding thesis. Economics, G. S. Boritt insists, was central to the
                    beliefs and faith of Abraham Lincoln, or, put another way, "the right to
                    rise [which Boritt views solely in economic terms] … was Lincoln's central
                    ideal" (p. 281). Lincoln's central ideal was also that of America. The right to
                    rise, the right to get ahead in life—in short, the American Dream—was the
                    central ideal of the Republic, and it was Lincoln who made it so. No one, Boritt suggests,
                    "placed the Dream so clearly on the highest pedestal as the central idea
                    of the Republic" (p. 160); more than anyone else Lincoln "helped institutionalize
                    the American Dream—made it perhaps the most central idea of the
                    nation" (p. 161). It was Lincoln "who uplifted America's coarse
                    materialism and gave it a spiritual dimension" (p. 160). It was Lincoln who extended the
                    Jeffersonian meaning of equality to encompass equality of opportunity, which Boritt feels may be
                    "one of the most important metamorphoses of an idea in American history" (p. 158).
                    In fact, Lincoln himself was not fully aware of his "creative approach" to
                    Jefferson's dictum. To support these contentions Boritt has painstakingly combed the
                    Lincoln literature, amassing evidence from Lincoln's own words and from the words of those
                    who knew him and remembered him. The result is a truly formidable array of documentation,
                    demonstrating the central importance of economics to Lincoln's outlook from his early
                    career as an 
                        Illinois
                     legislator to the end of his presidential years.
            While the course of Boritt's reasoning is not always clear, it is apparent that he has both
                    his subject and his sources well in hand. There are pitfalls, however, in Boritt's
                    approach, and he does not always avoid them. To prove his case he frequently employs a type of
                    selective quotation, piling up citations without regard for their contexts. His zeal at times leads
                    him into  hyperbole. There are instances when his efforts to tie
                    Lincoln's thought to economic roots seem contrived and artificial (as when Boritt finds the
                    "right to rise" in the president's military policies, a discovery which
                    Boritt himself found startling). Boritt tends to view Lincoln's development in isolation
                    from the intellectual and cultural currents of early nineteenth-century America, a lack of
                    perspective that easily tempts him to exaggerate Lincoln's uniqueness. Still, this is a
                    valuable study if only because it fills out a dimension of Lincoln's thought that has
                    received little emphasis before now. Lincoln's early support of Whig economics is given
                    careful analysis; the economics that directed his stance on slavery, his concept of the Union, and
                    his view of the nature of the Civil War are revealed. Appended to Boritt's study is an
                    extended essay in which the author seeks the "historiographical ancestry" of his
                    book. Why, he asks, had not Lincoln scholars before him discovered the essential importance of
                    economics to Lincoln's thought and action? The answer, he suggests, is found in the
                    persistent and overpowering duality of the Lincoln image, Lincoln as man and Lincoln as god. His
                    book, Boritt feels, not only explodes the "myth of the noneconomic Lincoln" but
                    also provides "the sturdiest support for the bridge between man and god" (p. 304).
                    That Boritt has made a contribution to Lincoln studies is unquestioned; that he has succeeded in his
                    aim "to find a more real, more believable, Lincoln" is less certain.
            
               University of 
                     Illinois,
                                Urbana
                  -
                            Champaign
                        
                Robert W. Johannsen
         
         
            
               R. E. Olds: Auto Industry Pioneer. By George S. May. (Grand Rapids, Mich.:
                    William B. Eerdmans Publishing Company, 1977. Pp. viii, 458. Illustrations, appendix, bibliography,
                    notes, index. $13.95.)
            Ransom E. Olds has long remained an enigmatic figure in the history of American automobiles. George
                    S. May's richly detailed biography indicates that Olds shared much with Henry Ford: age and 
                        Michigan
                     residency, an aversion to farm life, mechanical training, and early experience with
                    automobiles. Olds built his first car a decade before Ford and was even better equipped to dominate
                    the new industry. From the 1880s he had superintended the manufacture of nationally known steam and
                    gasoline engines in his father's firm. His experience and reputation helped him found the
                    Olds Motor Vehicle Company and capture one third of annual industry sales before Ford was firmly
                    established.
            
            Yet his initial success marked Olds' peak influence. In 1904 he split with his backers,
                    Samuel and Fred Smith, and left the firm. And although he quickly founded another company (the REO,
                    an acronym of Olds' initials), it never ranked higher than third in the industry. After
                    1906 Olds became less active as his company fell behind the new industry leaders, Ford and General
                    Motors. May's more abbreviated coverage of Olds' later career describes only an
                    ineffectual return to active management shortly before Olds left REO in 1936.
            Why then did a man of such obvious capabilities and advantages fail to achieve the leadership and
                    stature of a Ford? May answers that Olds was an early leader but not the towering pioneer of legend.
                    Olds did not build the first gasoline automobile, and he produced an insignificant number of cars
                    before settling on his famous curved-dash model just prior to his disastrous factory fire in 1901.
                    That car, which made Olds' reputation, was neither the only cheap model nor the first
                    automobile produced in quantity. Olds' swift departure from the Olds Motor Vehicle Company
                    resulted not from a stubborn conviction for inexpensive, mass-produced vehicles but from a power
                    struggle with Fred Smith. And Olds' diminished role at REO was by choice. After pioneering
                    two firms he had little patience with administrative routine and less taste for such controversies
                    as the Selden patent fight.
            May's evidence could have carried him further. Olds was a production man of limited vision,
                    not an entrepreneur of boundless confidence. While he forecast industry sales of a quarter million,
                    Ford and William C. Durant foresaw a market twice as large. Olds was slow to improve his original
                    engine and his frail runabout. For him, producing a dependable car meant building a bigger, more
                    expensive automobile. Ironically, he began to miss the challenge of innovation just when Ford began
                    modifying technology to produce cheap, dependable vehicles.
            A more focused account would have sharpened May's analysis of a pioneer who stopped
                    pioneering too soon, a genial fellow who fought bitterly with close colleagues, a critic of his
                    father's docility who was prematurely content, and an independent who truckled to the
                    Selden group. Yet while Olds remains an elusive figure, May's well-written book has much to
                    offer. Unless new material is uncovered, scholars will not have a better history of Olds'
                    early career. Along with Glenn Niemeyer's 1963 study, May has filled gaps and helped
                    de-mythologize an important precursor's story. More importantly  the sharp contrast of Olds with Ford and Durant illuminates the role of
                    personality and individual choice in business leadership.
            
               Dartmouth College, 
                            Hanover
                        , N.H. Charles W. Cheape
         
         
            
               Reform and Regulation: American Politics, 1900–1916. By Lewis L.
                    Gould. (
                        New York
                    : John Wiley & Sons, 1978. Pp. ix, 197. Notes, suggested readings, tables,
                    index. Clothbound, $10.95; paperbound, $6.95.)
            American political history, like other fields, has been influenced by historians using social science
                    methodology and emphasizing general patterns, state politics, electoral behavior, and legislative
                    roll-call voting. By this standard Lewis L. Gould's Reform and Regulation
                    is clearly a traditional work. Of course, as his bibliography and footnotes indicate, Gould is
                    familiar with much of the "new" political history, especially the literature on
                    the 1890s. Thus, he quite rightly begins in 1896 instead of 1900, the date apparently chosen by the
                    series editor. (This is one of eight projected volumes entitled Critical Episodes in
                        American Politics.) Gould's reading has failed him, however, with regard to
                    elections. While his descriptions of platforms, speeches, and party organization are insightful, he
                    appears to view election results as essentially referenda on national, and largely economic, issues.
                    Such a view neglects the role of social and moral questions evident in many states, including
                    Indiana. Moreover, Gould ignores almost entirely the importance of political socialization. He
                    mentions the decline of party loyalty and voter turnout but fails to appreciate the broader
                    significance of these developments. Finally, his suggestion that the Democratic victory in 1916 was
                    only an "interruption" (p. 178) in a Republican era ignores the pattern of
                    elections from 1908 to 1918, a pattern which Indiana well exemplifies. Despite its subtitle,
                    however, this book covers not American politics but presidential politics. Judged by this narrower
                    standard, Reform and Regulation is both useful and significant. Gould has read
                    widely in manuscript collections and periodicals. His evaluations are perceptive, and his noting of
                    long-range consequences is valuable.
            Gould is very critical of Theodore Roosevelt. He argues convincingly that TR's initial
                    policies, especially regarding trusts, were common Republican doctrine. Although admitting
                    Roosevelt's astute assessment of public opinion and his successful self-advertisement,
                    Gould claims that the president was  a poor manager of Congress
                    and the party and a bad judge of character. His actions divided the GOP, and in failing to revise
                    the tariff he set the stage for a more serious crisis.
            The portrait of William Howard Taft is perceptive and sympathetic. Deftly outlining the many causes
                    of animosity between Taft and the progressives, the author explains the president's view of
                    his role: administrator, quiet negotiator, and party leader. This approach, in the face of the
                    rising expectations and antipartisan sentiment of the progressives, made him appear obstructive and
                    forced him to rely on conservatives. Ultimately, Gould blames Roosevelt for the 1912 split. His
                    presidency had fostered conflict, and his subsequent activities, more for personal than policy
                    reasons, divided the party and devastated its progressive wing.
            Gould presents Woodrow Wilson as an effective leader and flexible thinker. During Wilson's
                    first term, according to Gould, modern politics finally emerged, as many interest groups sought
                    federal assistance. The Wilsonian coalition disintegrated, but big-government advocates remained
                    dominant among Democrats and subordinate in the GOP. Gould is here exaggerating precedent into
                    transition, but he is correct on a very important point: the nature of politics had changed.
            
               Purdue University, West 
                            Lafayette
                        
                Philip R. VanderMeer
         
         
            
               The Department of State on the Eve of the First World War. By Rachel West. (
                        Athens
                    : The University of 
                        Georgia
                     Press, 1978. Pp. 183. Notes, essay on sources, index. $11.50.)
            This compact monograph offers historians a fascinating "photograph" of the agency
                    and individuals who conducted American diplomacy in 1913–1914. The result is not
                    flattering to the Department of State or to the administration of President Woodrow Wilson.
            In 1914 the department was small. There were 213 officers, clerks, and messengers in 
                        Washington
                    ; another 450 served abroad. West indicates that a traditional emphasis on Latin
                    American and Far Eastern relations led to understaffing in the bureaus responsible for European
                    affairs.
            Along with organizational shortcomings, there were other serious problems. "The sheer
                    amateurism of the department, the blindness of the highest officials—these stand
                    out" (p. 3). Diplomats stationed abroad corresponded with 
                        Washington
                     on routine matters—visas and commercial listings—but hesitated to
                    communicate on more significant matters, fearing their  words
                    would be lost in a bureaucratic pigeonhole or even rebuked. For instance, in July, 1914, Frank
                    Mallett, vice-consul in Budapest, became the first 
                        United States
                     diplomat to recognize the inevitability of war between 
                        Austria
                     and Serbia. He sent this important dispatch to 
                        Washington
                     by ordinary mail, not by cable. His warning exceeded the length expected of cables, and
                    Mallet did not want to violate a regulation.
            In the summer of 1914 West shows that the department was unprepared for war and unconcerned about a
                    threat to world peace. Secretary of State William Jennings Bryan talked domestic politics at work
                    and devoted weekends to earning additional income with speeches on peace, temperance, and the good
                    life. Inexperienced officials handled department business while Counselor Robert Lansing vacationed
                    in 
                        New York
                     and Second Assistant Secretary Alvey Adee bicycled in Europe.
            Abroad the 
                        United States
                     was not well staffed to protect national interests or promote peaceful solutions to
                    disputes. Major diplomatic posts went to large political contributors, and there were inexperienced
                    political appointees in all significant European capitals except 
                        Paris
                    . In Berlin, Ambassador James Gerard, who gained his appointment with the backing of
                    Tammany Hall, lacked the president's confidence. Nor was he prescient. Gerard watched
                    German military maneuvers with the kaiser and in July pronounced Berlin "as quiet as a
                    grave" (p. 131). In St. Petersburg, where the Wilson administration needed an experienced
                    diplomatic hand, there was no ambassador until after the war began.
            This book, although narrow in scope, is thorough and professional, based as it is on extensive
                    research in primary sources and English-language materials. The conclusions reinforce earlier
                    interpretations but add significant detail that will benefit historians desiring anecdotes for
                    classroom lectures. There is a minor weakness. The index contains only proper names and is not a
                    useful guide to the volume's rich contents.
            
               The 
                            Ohio
                         State University, 
                            Columbus
                        
                Alfred E. Eckes, Jr.
         
         
            
               George W. Norris: The Triumph of a Progressive, 1933–1944. By Richard
                    Lowitt. (
                        Urbana
                    : University of 
                        Illinois
                     Press, 1978. Pp. xiii, 493. Notes, illustrations, bibliographical essay, index.
                    $20.00.)
            Richard Lowitt can now relax. After two decades of research and writing he has finished his
                    magisterial trilogy on  George W. Norris. This final volume
                    covers Norris' years of triumph as a Progressive reformer during the New Deal. The
                    senator's long political labors finally bore fruit for a better America, and
                    Lowitt's productive scholarship will, likewise, nourish students for years to come.
            Norris' triumphs as well as his failures are chronicled in Lowitt's work, and the
                    combination guarantees the senator a large degree of immortality. Franklin D. Roosevelt correctly
                    called him "one of the major prophets of America" (p. 156). After years of
                    minority advocacy he found himself leading a majority in 1933, and his dreams became law. The 
                        Tennessee
                     Valley Authority, rural electrification, the "lame duck" or twentieth
                    amendment, and 
                        Nebraska
                    's unicameral legislature all bore the stamp of his leadership. Later reformers
                    would continue his work to abolish the electoral college, divorce welfare from politics, and place
                    greater controls on utility trusts and the Federal Bureau of Investigation. His career was a
                    nonpartisan crusade for good government and citizens' rights and can be summarized in the
                    words he used to describe his beloved TVA: "a shining example of efficiency and
                    humanity" (p. 283).
            A major strength of this book is Lowitt's ability to view federal activity from state and
                    local levels. At least fifteen New Deal programs helped 
                        Nebraska
                     pull through depression and drought, and Norris' influence with 
                        Washington
                     officials probably secured more of these benefits for his constituents than statistics
                    warranted. In particular, 
                        Nebraska
                     received an extraordinary number of flood control and irrigation projects under the
                    Public Works Administration. The author also demonstrates how fickle constituents can be. Cornhusker
                    rejections of Roosevelt's candidacy in the 1940 election and Norris' bid for a
                    sixth term in 1942 are both explained convincingly as rural Republican frustration with New Deal
                    bureaucracy.
            The two previous volumes in this exhaustive biography set standards which are maintained in the
                    concluding work. Lowitt's mastery of source material is obvious; his footnotes are
                    impressive in their thoroughness; and his publisher is to be commended for placing them at the
                    bottom of the pages where they belong. The author, unfortunately, continues to plod chronologically
                    through massive details, many of which could be discarded with no damage to the subject. Historians
                    will need to be familiar with the earlier works to understand fully Norris the man; only the senator
                    is visible from 1933 to 1944. And it should come as no surprise that the author's favorable
                    bias grows to adulation by the final chapter.
            
            These small caveats aside, the book is rich, comprehensive, and judicious. Other studies pale in all
                    comparisons. Nature blessed Norris with a long and successful life; Lowitt now blesses him with a
                    similar biography.
            
               Indiana University East, 
                            Richmond
                        
                George T. Blakey
         
         
            
               Families and Communities: A New View of American History. By David J. Russo. (
                        Nashville
                    : The American Association for State and Local History, 1974. Pp. x, 322. Notes,
                    bibliography, indexes. Paperbound, $7.00.)
            
               Your Family History: A Handbook for Research and Writing. By David E. Kyvig and
                    Myron A. Marty. (Arlington Heights, Ill.: AHM Publishing Corporation, 1978. Pp. 71. Illustrations,
                    further reading, forms. Paperbound, $2.95.)
            
               Generations: Your Family in Modern American History. Second edition. By Jim
                    Watts and Allen F. Davis. (
                        New York
                    : Alfred A. Knopf, 1978. Pp. xiv, 288. Illustrations, figures, appendix, genealogical
                    charts. Paperbound, $6.95.)
            All three of these books reflect the increasing interest historians are devoting to community and
                    family history in their research and in college classrooms. David J. Russo's Families and Communities is a combination of a bibliographic essay and a call for a new
                    approach to writing American history. He spends several chapters surveying the manner in which
                    historians have treated various levels of communities, such as towns, cities, states, and regions.
                    His conclusion is "that Americans have always lived simultaneously in various levels of
                    communities and that the level of most consequence has shifted from the little
                    community—the town—to the big community—the nation" (pp.
                    155–56).
            Russo maintains that most textbook writers have concentrated on a national frame of reference with a
                    heavy emphasis on political events. Such an emphasis, he feels, has actually distorted American
                    history. He argues that the national community did not become dominant until somewhere between 1870
                    and 1930. To emphasize the nation-state from the colonial period to the present is, therefore,
                    inaccurate. Russo calls for a new scheme that focuses on the individual, the family, and the levels
                    of community in which they have lived, with the emphasis 
                    gradually shifting from the town to the city to states to regions and finally to the nation. He
                    promises that this approach will reveal more about the history of the 
                        United States
                     than do our present texts.
            Russo acknowledges several potential problem areas for those working to develop this new scheme. One
                    of the main problems will be the creation of a proper balance between dramatic events and the normal
                    functioning of individuals, groups, and institutions. In this area he warns against giving
                    preponderance to political affairs. Russo calls on historians to be sensitive to the complex
                    interplay among political, economic, social, cultural, and intellectual forces; to ascertain the
                    direction of various influences; and to distinguish between the causes of change and the reflections
                    of change. Establishing a proper balance between elitist history and mass history is a third problem
                    to which writers of the new history should respond. A main deficiency of current texts, according to
                    Russo, is their periodization. He suggests dividing American history into four periods: colonial,
                    the Revolution to the Civil War, Civil War to World War II, and World War II to the present. These
                    longer periods would allow historians to gain a better perspective as to the ways in which major
                    changes were related to each other.
            David E. Kyvig and Myron A. Marty have put together a fine little book in Your Family
                        History: A Handbook for Research and Writing. This slim volume is a good handbook either
                    for a supplemental project on family history in a survey course or as part of the reading for a
                    community or oral history course. The authors blend basic, nuts-and-bolts information on family
                    research with brief introductions to historical methodology and bibliographic information on major
                    works in family and community history. The student is systematically brought through a family
                    history research project from selecting a topic to using various sources of information and
                    techniques of research. Examples of different resources such as photographs and oral interviews
                    illustrate the authors' approach. This book is a nice example of its type, easily read and
                    reasonably priced. It is strongly recommended to anyone who is contemplating involving students in a
                    family history research project.
            Jim Watts and Allen F. Davis have developed a larger and more comprehensive reader in Generations. This book is designed for use as a main source book or text in a family
                    history course. The authors teach at urban universities, Watts at City College of 
                        New York
                     and Davis at Temple, and the reader  senses an
                    urban orientation in the construction of this volume, which deals with the problems of immigration,
                    work and unemployment, and war, as they influence the family. However, rural poverty and the rural
                    to urban migration are also illustrated. The material is organized in a circular fashion that is
                    designed to encourage the student to think about himself and his family and thus to motivate him to
                    examine the family's history. Two of the great events of the twentieth
                    century—the Great Depression and World War II—are used as examples to
                    illustrate the way in which world events affect families. After bringing the student through World
                    War II, the authors then swing back to reflecting on modern American life. Here they develop themes
                    of generational tension in manners and morals and the problems involved in adapting to a rapidly
                    changing, highly technological society. Along the margins of the various readings are questions
                    designed to prompt class discussion or student thinking. "Are trial marriages a good idea?
                    Why or why not?" (p. 232). An appendix contains materials and advice to aid students in
                    researching their own family history. The work is well-illustrated and reflects considerable
                    research in a variety of photographic archives.
            
               Generations is a combination of a mini-history of the Depression, World War II, and
                    postwar America as seen from the perspective of the individual and the family. The problems of the
                    acculturation, racism, poverty, migration, and work are developed not as political issues but as
                    factors with which people have to deal as they "grow up" in modern America and
                    with which their parents struggled during the Depression and World War II. It is an excellent and
                    unique approach to introducing the beginning student to the concepts of family history and recent
                    American history. With a little luck the student will get interested enough in history to take
                    another course.
            
               Southwest State University, Marshall, Minn. David L. Nass
         
         
            
               Registration Methods for the Small Museum: A Guide for Historical Collections.
                    By Daniel B Reibel. (
                        Nashville
                    : American Association for State and Local History, 1978. Pp. 160. Notes, illustrations,
                    appendixes, bibliographical note, index. Paperbound, $6.75.)
            As Reibel states in his preface, he has tried to "present the means to develop a
                    registration system that will be as good as any and up to the current state of the art" (p.
                    7). He has  succeeded in doing just that. He presents the
                    various steps and procedures needed to accession objects properly and provides alternative solutions
                    for each step. He correctly recognizes the fact that no museum is exactly like any other museum and
                    that as a consequence registration systems must be tailored to fit individual needs and resources.
                    He also states: "It is more important to be consistent, accurate, and complete than to
                    favor any one system over another" (p. 113).
            Reibel approaches his subject by taking the reader through each step in the registration process;
                    i.e., acquisition, numbering, loans, etc. He presents a variety of means by which these steps can be
                    approached and gives examples and conditions under which, in his experience, each approach works
                    best.
            The book reads well and is uncluttered by professional jargon. Certain terms which may cause
                    confusion, such as accession, catalog, museum, are defined in the first chapter and give the reader
                    a clear idea of how these terms are used in the museum field today. Anyone involved in either
                    starting a museum or working in an established one will find this an essential volume to add to
                    their library. The clear and concise presentation of the subject matter by someone who has had much
                    experience makes this a most useful book. Although the literature on small museums is not
                    particularly large, that which is available is of high quality, and this latest addition to the
                    field fills the long-neglected gap concerning small museum registration methods.
            
               
                  
                            Howard County
                         Historical Museum, 
                            Kokomo
                        , Ind. Richard A. Kastl
         
         
         
            INDIANA HISTORICAL SOCIETY GRADUATE FELLOWSHIPS IN HISTORY
            Two Grants of $3,500 each
            for the
            1980-1981 Academic Year
            Applications due by March 15, 1980
            Purpose: To encourage research which will contribute to an understanding of the history of Indiana or
                    of Indiana and the region of which she is traditionally a part, the Old Northwest and Midwest.
            Eligibility: Applicants must be enrolled in a doctoral progam in an accredited institution and have
                    completed all course work and met all requirements for the doctoral degree except the research and
                    writing of the dissertation. The dissertation subject must reflect the purpose of the grant and be
                    approved by the graduate committee of the institution.
            Application: Application forms may be obtained from the office of the Indiana Historical Society at
                    the address given below. Applicants must provide three letters of recommendation including one form
                    the chairman of the applicant's major department and one from the dissertation director. Documents
                    required in support are a transcript of graduate credits and a dissertation propectus.
            Awards: Winners will receive grants of $3,500 to be used for expenses connected with their
                    dissertations. One half of the grant ($1,750) will be paid September 1, 1980; one fourth
                    ($875), December 1, 1980; and one fourth upon acceptance of the completed dissertation by
                    the graduate committee.
            Deadlines:
                  
                     For receipt of applications
                     March 15, 1980
                  
                  
                     Announcements of awards
                     May 15, 1980
                  
               
            
            For further information and application forms write:
            Gayle ThornbroughExecutive SecretaryIndiana Historical Society315 West
                    Ohio StreetIndianapolis, Indiana 46202
         
         
         
            WANTED: ARTISTS/DESIGNERS
            The Indiana Magazine of History is interested in receiving suggestions for an
                    illustration, drawing, design, symbol, or logo that would be suitable for use on the inside front
                    cover of the magazine. The design should have some obvious relationship to Indiana history.
                    Submission will be returned only if accompanied by a self-addressed, stamped envelope.
         
         
            MUSIC COLLECTIONS
            Claude K. Sluder, a Ph.D. Candidate in Musicology from Indiana University, wishes to examine
                    collections of music used in southern Indiana before the Civil War. Mr. Sluder has been researching
                    music in New Harmony, Indiana, but would also like to examine contemporary collections used in other
                    areas of southern Indiana. He is interested in both secular and sacred music in print (frequently
                    bound into large volumes during this period) or in manuscript. If you have any information please
                    contact him at 2301 South Rogers, Bloomington, Indiana 47401. Phone: 812-332-7323.
         
      
      
         
         
         
         
         
         
      
   
