
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 47, Issue 1, pages 1-128. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:47+issue:1+year:1951&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            William Maclure, 1763-1840: A British Interpretation
            W. H. G. Armytage∗
            
            "To drown the self in an ocean of sociality:" so William Maclure joyfully hailed
                    the experiment which he and Robert Owen were to make on the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                     in the year 1824. Historians, examining the story of this experiment, have kept so much
                    to the Owen side of the story (not unnaturally since Owen's own great-granddaughter even
                    survived to tell the tale) that it has generally been regarded as a failure. Moreover, the nature of
                    the experiment itself has been misunderstood. Owen, it is argued, was a socialist. 
                        New Harmony
                     was an experiment in socialism. Socialism was a failure. Therefore 
                        New Harmony
                     was a failure: just another experiment in backwoods communism.
            That is not the whole story however. Owen's flair for publicity, which carried opinion
                    before it in his own day, cannot always hold sway. The New Harmony project has quite another,
                    American aspect: that of an experiment in social life which outlasted Owen's own interest,
                    and lived to contribute something to the American tradition. To understand this aspect, it is
                    necessary to survey the life of William Maclure: a survey which has been overdue for over a century
                    and which has not yet been undertaken.1
            
            
               
                  ∗ W. H. G. Armytage is a lecturer in the department of
                        education at the University of Sheffield, 
                     Sheffield, England
                  .
               
                  1 Apart from the address by Samuel G. Morton, delivered to the 
                            Philadelphia
                         Academy of Natural Sciences in 1841, A Memoir of William Maclure
                        (2d ed., 
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1844), and the article by George P. Merrill in the Dictionary of
                            American Biography (20 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1943), XII, 135-137, it seems to be presumed that he was a botanist, since of
                        twelve representative encyclopedias consulted, all give the plant Maclura, but only five give a
                        short note about him. Among the works ignoring him are The Encyclopaedia of the
                            Social Sciences (15 vols.,
            
            
            William Maclure (the insertion of the letter "a" in his surname was his own idea)
                    hailed from 
                        Scotland
                    . Born at Ayr in 1763, he went to 
                        London
                     and made a name for himself with the firm of Miller, Hart and Company, of 5 Angel
                    Court, Throckmorton Street. In the years of promise that followed 1783, he was to be found visiting
                    America, and soon he took out papers of citizenship. Such deliberate deracination was to mark his
                    whole career. Fortunately for himself, he became wealthy, and, since he remained unmarried, his
                    inclinations for travel could be indulged to the full.
            Using 
                        Philadelphia
                     as a home base, he began to geologize. Geology in those days was the subject of daring
                    guess: daring since it tended to overturn the cherished concepts of cosmology: guess since Abraham
                    G. Werner, its high priest, had never ventured beyond his native Saxony. Maclure did. Being sent to 
                        France
                     on a government mission in 1803,2 he began to make geological trips
                    all over Europe. In a moment of rare self-revelation he wrote to his friend Benjamin Silliman
                    (sixteen years his junior and from 1802 onwards a Yale professor): "I first began my
                    geological rambles (considering coal as the most useful and valuable substance that nature had
                    bestowed on man). I followed it through all my excursions, and visited every considerable coal field
                    in Europe, with the hope that by an exact examination of the strata, over and under it, I should be
                    able to predict where coal could be found, but was at last forced to content myself with a tolerable
                    guess, at where it most probably could not be found."3 At the same time
                    as he was wandering over the face of Europe, knapsack at hand, his English contemporary William
                    Smith (six years younger than Maclure) was surveying the canals in course of his practice: a survey
                    that was to bring him wide fame as a geologist.
            
               
                  
                            New York
                        , 1930-1935), Der Grosse Brockhans (21 vols., Leipzig, 1928-1935),
                            Révai Nagy Lexikona az Ismeretek
                            Enciklopédiája (20 vols., Budapest, 1911-1927), Nordisk Familjebok (38 vols., Stockholm, 1904-1926), The Encyclopaedia of
                            Education (4 vols., 
                            London
                        , 1921), Chambers Encyclopaedia (15 vols., 
                            London
                        , 1950), and Schweizer Lexicon (7 vols., Zurich, 1945-1948).
               
                  2 He published the report of his mission (which was to settle the accounts
                        of Americans who had claims against the French Republic) in 1807. To the People of
                            the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1807).
               
                  3 George P. Fisher, Life of Benjamin Silliman (2 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1866) for an account of Silliman's correspondence. This is from his American Journal of Science and Arts (
                     New
                                Haven, Connecticut
                  ,
                        1818-), VII (1824), 258.
            
            
            Maclure not only antedated Smith in publication, but was a man of far wider interests. For in the
                    intervals of combing the countries for rocks, he was combing them for ideas. The magnets which drew
                    him were Philipp E. von Fellenberg and Johann H. Pestalozzi: both of them inspired with a zeal for
                    education. Fellenberg sustained at Hofwyl a great educational colony which embraced all grades of
                    schooling and all social classes: Pestalozzi inspired at Yverdun a coterie of apostles who made
                    order out of the luminous chaos of his ideas, and returned to their own countries as apostles of Anschauung, or as Maclure put it "bottoming education upon free
                    will." He was so impressed with Pestalozzi that he spent seven summers at Yverdun, living
                    with the master.4 Failing to get him to come to America, he was successful in
                    persuading a Pestalozzian teacher, Francis J. N. Neef, to emigrate to 
                        Philadelphia
                    . In 1810, five years after Neef migrated, Maclure secured another adherent, this time
                    the geologist Gerard Troost. Both Neef and Troost bore fruit by transplantation: Neef as a teacher
                    and Troost as a scientist. Neef wrote the first pedagogical work in the English language to be
                    published in the 
                        United States
                     and founded a Pestalozzian school; while Troost established a pharmaceutical
                    laboratory, the first alum manufactory, and, ten years after his arrival, became a professor of
                        mineralogy.5
            
            Maclure himself spent most of his time doing for America what Smith was doing for 
                        England
                    . On July 20, 1809, he read a paper to the American Philosophical Society on the geology
                    of the 
                        United States
                    . This he expanded eight years later by another paper on the same subject presented to
                    the same body on May 16, 1817. This second paper, published as a separate pamphlet, undoubtedly made
                    Maclure's name known beyond the immediate circle of his American friends. 
                  
                     4 William Maclure, Opinions on Various Subjects (3
                            vols., 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana, 1831-1838), 60-63.
                  
                     5 For Troost see Henry G. Rooker, "A Sketch of the Life and
                            Work of Dr. Gerard Troost," in 
                        
                                    Tennessee
                                 Historical Magazine, Series II (3 vols., 
                        Nashville, Tennessee
                     , 1930-1937), III (1932), 3-19. For Neef see Ada Carman,
                            "Joseph Neef: A Pestalozzian Pioneer," in Popular Science
                                Monthly (
                                New York
                            , 1872-), XLV (1894), 373-375. His popularization of the work of Condillac, The Logic of Condillac (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1809), shows how sensational psychology was taking root. Mind, as the product
                            of sensation, has no independent existence as Locke would maintain. This is a significant
                            anticipation of 
                                Spencer
                            , more striking by the fact that Condillac would have the child repeat the
                            experiences of the race.
               
                     Some idea of how it circulated may be seen in the fact that the
                    British Museum copy was originally the property of Sir Joseph Banks, president of the Royal Society,
                    presented to him by David Hosack, the physician-mineralogist who gave his mineral collection to 
                        Princeton
                     in 1821. The members of the Academy of Natural Science of 
                        Philadelphia
                     were much impressed, and elected him as president, a post he held for the next
                    twenty-two years. He was a good friend to them: a considerable portion of the first part of their
                    journal was printed in his own house there, while he presented its library with over fifteen hundred
                    volumes.
            Silliman, who was well qualified to judge, said of Maclure's work at this time:
                    "Few men have seen so much of the structure of our globe, and few have done so much with
                    such small pretensions."6 The Edinburgh Review, in
                    1818, spoke of it in its Wernerian context: "His general views are much more enlarged and
                    philosophical, than is usually met with in the geologists of that school; and, like most of those
                    who have had opportunities of extensive observation, he has found that the theory of the Freyberg
                    Professor [Werner] is of a very limited application."7
            
            These "enlarged and philosophical views" show a far seeing and prophetic insight.
                    Dividing the known 
                        United States
                     into three parts (The 
                        Mississippi
                     Basin, the Alleghenies, and the Atlantic slope) he saw that the first was destined, on
                    account of climate and soil to become a country of immense agricultural possibilities. Ships of war
                    would not be able to pass up the river itself, he argued, therefore it would be safe. This safety
                    would enable a nation of agriculturalists to flourish, whose rulers would be deprived by nature of
                    keeping a fleet or army "which hitherto have always produced the ruin of free and equal
                    representative governments." "On this earth, or in the page of history, it is
                    probable no place can be found of the same extent, so well calculated to perpetuate a free and equal
                    representative government, as the basin of the 
                        Mississippi
                    , both from its 
                  
                     6 In his American Journal of Science and Arts, I,
                            209-213, he placed him beside Saussure, who explored the Alps, Dolomieu, who formulated the
                            volcanic laboratory analogy, Humboldt, who examined Mexico, and Werner himself, whose
                            theories were elaborated within the confines of his native Saxony.
                  
                     7 See review of William Maclure's book. Observations on the Geology of the 
                                    United States
                                 of America (
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1817), in Edinburgh Review (250 vols.,
                                    
                        Edinburgh, London
                     , 1802-1929), XXX (1818), 375
               
                     physical advantages and the political constitutions on which the
                    state of society is bottomed."8 For the peoples of what he called the
                    Atlantic slope, he had no such rosy views. They would become a military people, he forecast, since
                    their accessible coast and numerous rivers would involve them in numerous wars. The third, or
                    Allegheny region, he thought, would be the last part of the continent to be thickly inhabited.
            Restless and searching, he was perpetually on the lookout for fresh talent to add luster to his own
                    intellectual enterprises. His third major recruit was a naturalist, Charles Alexandre Lesueur, who
                    had explored the coasts of 
                        Australia
                     in the opening years of the century and brought back a hundred thousand zoological
                    specimens. George, Baron von Cuvier was so impressed that he credited Lesueur and his artist partner
                    François Péron with discovering more than all other naturalists had hitherto
                    done, in the modern era. Whether Maclure was drawn to him by the Voyage de
                        découvertes aux Terres Australes and thought that Lesueur's talents
                    would complement his own, cannot be definitely stated. But one thing is clear from
                    Lesueur's biographer: Lesueur was most reluctant to leave his native land, and it took long
                    persuasion by Maclure to induce him to change his mind.9 The fact that Maclure
                    was a wealthy man, and was able to offer "un traitement annuel" of two thousand
                    five hundred francs no doubt helped Lesueur to make his decision. The two of them embarked for the 
                        United States
                     via the West Indies in August, 1815, accompanied by two more Pestalozzians: M. Schaer
                    and M. Alphour. Maclure himself, with characteristic energy, took the opportunity to survey the West
                    Indies, publishing a report on his return. These observations, dated October 18, 1817, marked
                    Maclure's return to 
                        Philadelphia
                    , where, as has been already noticed, he assumed the presidency of the Academy of
                    Natural Sciences. There Lesueur settled down for the next nine years, with Troost: Neef having
                    removed in 1814 to 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               . AH three retained their membership in the Academy.
            
               
                  8 Maclure, Observations on the Geology of the 
                                United States
                             of America, 126.
               
                  9 Mme. Adrien Loir, Charles-Alexandre Lesusur, Artiste et
                            Savant Francais en Amérique de 1816 à 1839 (Le Havre, 1920), 15,
                        said that her subject was "sollicité depuis longtemps par William
                        Maclure," also, that Maclure promised he would return after two years.
            
            
            Maclure himself did not settle. The picture presented by the European progressives was discouraging.
                    Pestalozzi's work at Yverdun seemed to be coming to an end: he had lost his wife in 1815,
                    and in the same year, sixteen of his teachers left him in a body as a protest against his retention
                    of an unpopular teacher. Johannes Niederer, Hermann Krusi, and Johannes Ramsauer, his three
                    standbys, also left, and legal suits, hostile pamphlets, and misrepresentation looked like drawing a
                    curtain on a great experimental drama. All this, to an enthusiast like Maclure, must have looked
                    disastrous, and it is not surprising that he characteristically set about continuing the work
                    himself.
            The site which he selected for his operations was 
                        Spain
                    . There, at 
                        Alicante
                    , he planned a great agricultural school on the lines of Hofwyl or Yverdun. In it,
                    physical labor was to be combined with moral and intellectual culture. It was to do for the
                    education and training of the young what Fellenberg and Pestalozzi had failed to do in harmony.
                    Maclure's enterprise secured him an estate of ten thousand acres, he repaired the buildings
                    and put the whole estate in order.10 He visited various parts of southern 
                        Spain
                     with a view to scientific investigation. Unfortunately for him, the liberal dawn which
                    he so confidently expected to illuminate the country did not materialize: the estate was confiscated
                    and returned to the church, and Maclure received no compensation. But that did not prevent Maclure
                    from continuing with his geological studies. In a letter to Professor Silliman, written from Madrid
                    on August 22, 1822, he took it upon himself to castigate the Voyage Minerologique et
                        Géologique en Hongrie published by the distinguished French geologist F. S.
                    Beudant, the professor of mineralogy at 
                        Paris
                    . Maclure was scathing: "all that possibly can be useful, in mineralogy or
                    geology, might, with as much ease, have been put into 50 pages, and the reader saved the labor of
                    turning over from 1500 to 1800 pages of repetitions and descriptions of the same rocks, a thousand
                    times over, creating confusion and fatigue, without leaving in the mind, any clearly defined ideas
                    of the subject. The author seems totally unacquainted with the immense variety of volcanic
                    rocks," and to have been fiercely patriotic: "any observer can obtain a more
                    accurate 
                  
                     10 Morton, A Memoir of William Maclure, 18.
               
                     knowledge of geology, in one year in the 
                        United States
                    , than he could in a long life spent in travelling in any other part of the globe
                    hitherto examined and described."11 His fierceness was not only
                    directed against bad geologists, but also against the tiresome natives of 
                        Spain
                    . In a letter to Silliman the following year he wrote: "I have been much
                    disappointed by being prevented from executing my mineralogical excursions in 
                        Spain
                    , by the bands of powerful robbers, that have long infested the astonishingly extended
                    surface of uncultivated and uninhabited wilds, in this naturally delightful country; not that I
                    require any money worth the robbing, to supply me with all that I need—for the regimen
                    which I adopt, for the promotion of my health, in my excursions, demands nothing but water, and a
                    very small quantity of the most common food; but these barbarians have adopted the Algerine system
                    of taking you, as a slave, to the mountains, where they exact as a ransom, as many thousands of
                    dollars, as they conceive the property you possess will enable you to pay."12 Nor were the bandits of 
                        Spain
                     the only menace to his freedom. At 
                        Paris
                    , the editor of the Revue Encyclopédique asked him to
                    contribute some essays. Maclure wrote six, but they were excluded by the censors of the press as too
                    democratic. They were afterwards translated into Spanish and published at Madrid.13
            
            These years in 
                        Spain
                     witnessed a reorientation of his outlook. He swung still further from the purely
                    geological outlook. Writing to Silliman on April 29, 1823, he opined: "the pendulum by the
                    impulsion of Werner has been long kept in the extreme exaggeration of the Neptunian theory; now that
                    Werner is dead, it is likely to swing as far in the opposite direction, and scorch our globe with
                    fire, as unmercifully as the Neptunians inundated it with water. I have always been of the opinion
                    that there was no good reason to suppose any priority of one formation over the
                        other…."14 His interest was crystallizing around the
                    formation, not of rocks, but of character. More and more education was becoming 
                  
                     11
                            American Journal of Science and Arts, VII, 256.
                  
                     12
                            Ibid., VIII (1825), 187.
                  
                     13 Maclure, Opinions on Various Subjects,
                            introduction. These essays were subsequently published, with others, at 
                                New Harmony
                            .
                  
                     14
                            American Journal of Science and Arts, VII, 261. This was written from
                            Alicante.
               
                     uppermost in his mind. This is shown in a remarkable letter which
                    he wrote to Silliman on October 19, 1822: "It is an axiom with me that it is the positive
                    and real interest of every individual in society to have as many friends and as few enemies as
                    possible. To obtain them he must do as much good and as little harm as possible. In reflecting upon
                    the absurdity of my own classical education, launched into the world as ignorant as a pig of
                    anything useful, not having occasion to practice anything I had learned, …. I had been
                    long in the habit of considering education one of the greatest abuses our species were guilty of,
                    and of course one of the reforms the most beneficial to humanity, and likewise offering to ambition
                    a fair field. Almost no improvement has been made in it for two or three hundred years; there was
                    immense room for change to put it on a par with other functions of civilization. The task appeared
                    easy, and the credit to be acquired by any change considerable, for nearly the same reasons. I
                    adopted rock-hunting as an amusement in place of deer or partridge hunting, considering mineralogy
                    and geology as the sciences most applicable to useful practical purposes, but, like most of the
                    things of the greatest utility, neglected,—having long given up all idea of changing the
                    opinions of man as a labor far above my abilities. I have been endeavoring, for some twenty years,
                    to change the education of children, and stumbled by accident about eighteen years ago on the school
                    of Pestalozzi in 
                        Switzerland
                    , which subserved the useful purposes that I had formed to myself of a rational
                    education. I have been ever since doing something towards propagating and improving the scheme, and
                    the success in the fruits are more than I expected, for it has won some of the most promising men in
                    our country, such as Henry Sybert &c., &c., but has not been able to penetrate deep
                    into the crust of prejudices which is early interwoven with our self-love, so as to make the
                    greatest part of mankind jealous and inveterate enemies of any system that gives knowledge on
                    cheaper terms than they themselves paid for it; though I have little doubt that in time some such
                    system will generally prevail in our country, where the power, being in the hands of the people,
                    through the medium of our popular governments, renders a diffusion of knowledge necessary to the
                    support of freedom, and of course the necessity of an almost equal division of both property and
                    knowledge, which the advantages  given to those who can afford to
                    send their sons to colleges very naturally counteracts."15 So, to
                    offset his Spanish tragedy, he opened a school in his house in 
                        Paris
                    . In it "Boys from eight to ten years old become good mineralogists and
                    chemists, almost equal to the analysis of rocks, and speak and grammatically understand three to
                    four modern languages, mathematics in all its branches, are good arithmeticians, and in short before
                    the arrival of that critical time, the age of puberty, they will possess more useful knowledge than
                    they could have had by the old system at the age of thirty or forty."16
                    This little school served as a magnet for other teachers. William Phiquepal and Madame Fretageot,
                    both Pestalozzians, followed the path that Neef, Troost, and Lesueur had taken before them, and, by
                    1821 were also in 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Once there, Maclure's ready pen secured them the advertisement they deserved,
                    and in the American Journal of Science, volume X, he wrote an article on
                    "The Epitome of the Improved Pestalozzian System of Education, as Practiced by William
                    Phiquepal and Madame Fretageot, formerly in 
                        Paris
                    , and now in 
                        Philadelphia
                    ." But before Maclure himself left 
                        Paris
                    , he wrote once more to Silliman. He had discovered something new.
            This novelty was the prospect of a political experiment. From being a geologist he was turning
                    towards politics. The gulf between the two vocations was bridged for him by his ideas on education.
                    He told Silliman: "Indeed, one can foresee a state of society where the exchange of ideas
                    would be the only commerce, where mankind will be so well informed, as to raise every thing they
                    want themselves and restrain those wants within the limits of their own productions."17 In 
                        England
                     he had heard of a great experiment in community making: an experiment which was
                    initiated by the 
                        London
                     Cooperative 
                  
                     15 Fisher, Life of Benjamin Silliman, II, 40-43.
                            This letter is worth quoting in toto because of Silliman's own
                            acknowledgment in the American Journal of Science and Arts, X (1826),
                            145-150, that "The Pestalozzian system of instruction has been introduced into this
                            country by the public spirit and liberality of Mr. Maclure."
                  
                     16 Fisher, Life of Benjamin Silliman, II, 43.
                  
                     17
                            American Journal of Science and Arts, X, the letter dated May 2, 1825,
                            from 
                                Paris
                            . With this he informed Silliman that he had bought the whole edition of
                            Michaux's North American Sylva in order to present them to
                            various agricultural societies. He also said that he had bought past numbers of the Journal de Physique, the Revue
                            Encyclopédique, and the Westminster Review for
                            presentation to the American Geological Society, 165, 167.
               
                     Society inspired by John Gray. Gray, at the age of twenty-six,
                    had just published his Lecture on Human Happiness.
               18 This
                    tract attempted to prove, on the basis of figures given in Colquhoun's Treatise on the … Resources of the British Empire, published eleven years
                    before, that labor was being robbed of four-fifths of its produce. Gray's tract was not
                    exactly as communistic as it might have seemed, for in 1831, six years later, he showed in his Social System that what he really favored was nationalization of marketing. But
                    what he said in his Lecture on Human Happiness was enough for the 
                        London
                     workingmen. They drew up articles of agreement for the formation of a community based
                    on principles of mutual co-operation, calculating that if twenty thousand pounds were subscribed,
                    they could go ahead at once. Interested parties were invited to get in touch with James Corses at
                    108 
                  Strand, London
                for further information.
            Maclure was an interested party, but in a different sense. He told Silliman: "A Prospectus
                    of the British establishments, with the first lecture on human happiness, by John Gray, has been
                    published: it places the state of society, in a new and highly interesting point of view, extremely
                    favourable to liberty."19 He also declared "our disgrace and
                    humilitation would be much aggravated, if the two establishments now forming in Britain were to
                    succeed, and the attempt now making in America were to fail."20
            
            To prevent this, he determined to throw in his lot with Robert Owen, and ensure that "the
                    American one" would succeed. The two men were no strangers to each other: Maclure had
                    visited New Lanark, Owen's Scottish social experiment, while Owen had visited 
                        Philadelphia
                    . Owen was anxious to inaugurate his new moral world as far away from the corrosions of
                    the old one as possible, Maclure wished to try the Pestalozzian methods of instruction on human
                    beings who had known no other. It was but natural that they should get together, especially as
                    Maclure's considerable wealth enabled him to play the part of joint patron. The agreement
                    was that each should provide the sum of one hundred fifty 
                  
                     18 John Gray, A Lecture on Human Happiness (
                                London
                            , 1825). Reprinted in facsimile by the 
                                London
                             School of Economics in 1931.
                  
                     19
                            American Journal of Science and Arts, X, 165.
                  
                     20 Besides the projected 
                                London
                             Community, there was Robert Owen's experiment at Orbiston. Ibid., 165.
               
                     thousand dollars: an agreement which was to be the ostensible
                    cause of their parting. Maclure had one asset for Robert Owen which is acknowledged by a recent
                    writer: his decision merely to adhere to Robert Owen "partially counteracted" the
                    "unfortunate publicity" which Owen's public utterances brought upon the
                    embryo community.21
            
            Maclure took his part of the enterprise very seriously. He forwarded to 
                        New Harmony
                     his private library, philosophical instruments, and collections of natural history,
                    "designing," as his earliest and only biographer said "by these and other
                    means to make that locality the centre of education in the west." Moreover, he rounded up
                    his scientific associates to meet Robert Owen at 
                        New York
                     by early November, 1825. They assembled (with the notable exception of Neef, who came
                    later) and took wagon and carriage to 
                        Pittsburgh
                    . There, since they could not get a steamboat, the party purchased a keelboat, and
                    fitted it up for the journey. This was the famous boatload of knowledge about which so much has been
                    written, and which arrived at 
                        New Harmony
                     on January 26, 1826.
            Maclure was sixty-three years old: Owen eight years younger. They should have been able to see eye to
                    eye, but could not. Owen was in a hurry to establish his "half way house to the social
                    state," but Maclure was anxious to promote a more gradual system.22 It
                    was the age old tug of war between the evolutionary and revolutionary personalities. Owen soon found
                    this out, and set up a system of education different to that of Maclure. Indeed, when Owen was
                    washing the dirty linen of his quarrel with Maclure in public, he naively confessed: "Mr.
                    Maclure went out to establish a favorite system of education at 
                        New Harmony
                    ; and I had heard so much of the Pestalozzian system, and of Mr. Maclure's
                    exertions for its promotion, that I did expect the social system would be aided with it, and by the
                    assistance of those he would take with him. The population of 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    
                  
                     21 Richard W. Leopold, Robert Dale Owen, A Biography
                                    (
                        Cambridge, Massachusetts
                     , 1940), 27.
                  
                     22 George P. Merrill, The First One Hundred Years of
                                American Geology (
                        New Haven,
                                    Connecticut
                     , 1924), 33, quoted
                            Maclure as saying "land in the cities can no longer rise in value. The Communistic
                            society must prevail, and in the course of a few years 
                                Philadelphia
                             must be deserted; those who live long enough may come back here and see the
                            foxes looking out of the windows." It looks as if Maclure was not anxious to invest
                            money in real estate in 
                                Philadelphia
                            .
               
                     waited week after week, and month after month, with more
                    patience than I ever saw exercised on any similar occasion. I was myself disappointed that he could
                    not organize his operations."23 He attacked Maclure's brother
                    as "a mere tradesman who knew but little except to buy cheap and sell
                        dear," and continued: "I had, I suppose, somewhat irritated Mr. Maclure;
                    for I had commenced a system of education different from his own—and I therefore made my
                    arrangements independently of him, and commenced my system under the direction of a Mr.
                        Dorsey."24
            
            The financial trouble was somehow hushed up: Maclure paid forty thousand dollars and a balance of a
                    further five thousand dollars. Owen admitted defeat on April 13, 1828, and left the field clear for
                    Maclure, who now got into his stride. Earlier he had written in the American Journal of
                        Science his manifesto: "The great and fundamental principle is, never attempt to
                    teach children what they do not comprehend, and to teach them in the exact ratio to their
                    understanding it, without omitting one link in the chain of ratiocination, proceeding always from
                    the known to the unknown and from the most easy to the most difficult, practising the most extensive
                    and accurate use of all the senses, exercising, improving, and perfecting all the mental and
                    corporeal faculties by quickening combination; accelerating and carefully arranging comparison;
                    judiciously and impartially making deductions; summing up the results free from prejudices, and
                    cautiously avoiding the delusions of imagination, the constant source of ignorance and
                        error."25
            
            With Owen himself away, Maclure was at last able to establish what he had failed to do in 
                        Spain
                    : an educational community. It was to be an advance on Fellenberg's
                    agricultural community at Hofwyl, for it was to be more democratic. Neef took over the higher
                    school, assisted by his four daughters and one son. In this, children from five to twelve were to be
                    reared: arithometers, trignometers, machines, skeletons, and flowers were to serve as realistic
                    bases for the study of various subjects, and the children were to 
                  
                     23 See Robert Owen's speech delivered at 
                                Philadelphia
                             on June 27, 1827, which was printed in the 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana Gazette, August 8 and 15, 1827.
                  
                            24
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     25
                            American Journal of Science and Arts, X, 145.
               
                     print and publish their own textbooks. It was on this school,
                    (not the infant department, which was Owen's idea) that Maclure devoted all his thought. An
                    industrial department was grafted to the school, so that the child should pay for its maintenance,
                    and gain self respect by so doing. In this, the child chose his trade, and if he had no positive
                    choice, Neef was to assign him to one for which he displayed a special aptitude.26
            
            There were two other schools: one leading to this higher school, and the other leading from it. The
                    former would be called an infant school and the latter a vocational course. The junior school, as
                    might be expected, was under Madame Fretageot, and the vocational school under Phiquepal
                    d'Arusmont. Numbers, according to Owen's son were 130 before Maclure arrived:
                    afterwards, according to Maclure, they were nearly tripled.27 Maclure's
                    estimate was: one hundred in the junior school, nearly two hundred in the higher school, and eighty
                    in the vocational department. What is even more important from the point of view of this article is
                    that the education society had purchased from Owen no less than nine hundred acres of land for an
                    experimental farm, several houses, two large granaries, and a public building which was being
                    converted into a workshop. This public building had been a church used by the former Rappite member
                    of the community.28
            
            Maclure's educational venture was the real magnet of the enterprise, for it drew into its
                    service the distinguished foreigners who had accompanied Maclure down the 
                        Ohio
                    . Troost and Lesueur both taught their respective disciplines to the boys, and a third
                    scientist, Thomas Say ("the father of descriptive entomology in America"), also added his
                        efforts29
                    
                  
                     26 The first number of the 
                                New Harmony
                            , Indiana, Gazette contains an advertisement of the school.
                            From the first, the schools appear to have been run as a separate society, called Macluria.
                            The literature is enormous, the best accounts being George B. Lockwood, The 
                                    New Harmony
                                 Movement (
                                New York
                            , 1905), and Will S. Monroe, A History of the Pestulozzian Movement
                                in the 
                                    United States
                                
                      (
                                New York
                            , 1907). Maclure seems to have believed in vocational guidance.
                  
                     27 Robert Dale Owen, Threading My Way, An
                            Autobiography (
                                London
                            , 1874), 260. Maclure's letter dated July 4, 1826, and addressed to the
                            editor of the Revue Encyclopédique is given in Frank Podmore,
                                Robert Owen (
                                London
                            , 1923), 313.
                  
                     28 Nothing has been said of the previous settlers at 
                                New Harmony
                            , whose leader had sold the settlement en bloc to Robert Own.
               
                     Say was thirty-nine when the 
                        New Harmony
                     educational experiment began: a Philadelphian like the others, but with a wider
                    periphery of American experience. He had accompanied Major Stephen Long's expedition to the
                    Rocky Mountains seven years before, and had geologized in 
                        Minnesota
                    . The community were indeed lucky to have such a further star among their illuminati:
                    especially as he anchored himself in 1827 by marrying Lucy Way Sistaire, one of three sisters who
                    had come on the boatload of knowledge.
            With Owen gone, the community shook off his political ideas and settled down as a happy family.
                    Intermarriage drew them closer: Neef's daughter married Owen's third son, David
                    Dale Owen; Professor George Davidson married Robert Fauntleroy's sister; Jane Owen
                    (Owen's daughter) married Robert Fauntleroy, and d'Arusmont married a transient
                    member of the community who made her name elsewhere, Frances Wright.
            Owen's sons seem to have been infected by Maclure's geological enthusiasms rather
                    than their father's politics. For, with the notable exception of Robert Dale Owen, the
                    eldest, they all played their part in the schools, teaching and researching.30
                    Indeed, the extremely critical Mrs. Trollope, whom nobody could accuse of communistical leanings,
                    thought it a good idea to send one of her sons, Henry, to school here. Other travelers in America,
                    like the Duke of Saxe-Weimar, were similarly impressed. The Duke wrote: "all the boys and
                    girls have a very healthy look, are cheerful and lively, and by no means bashful. The boys labour in
                    the field or the garden, and were now occupied with new fencing. The girls learn female employments;
                    they were as little oppressed as the boys with labour and teaching; these happy and interesting
                    little children were much more employed in making 
                  
                     29 For Say and a number of letters from Maclure, see Harry B. Weiss
                            and Grace N. Ziegler, Thomas Say, Early American Naturalist
                                    (
                        Springfield, Illinois
                     , 1931).
                  
                     30 Robert Dale Owen, a rolling stone, nevertheless did great work for
                            education in Indiana, and, as a member of Congress, introduced the bill for the founding of
                            the Smithsonian Institution. William died at 
                                New Harmony
                             in 1842. David Dale arrived in 
                                New Harmony
                             in January, 1828, and eleven years later made it the headquarters of the 
                                United States
                             Geological Survey. Richard, who arrived in 
                                New Harmony
                            -when he was eighteen, died at 
                                New Harmony
                             when he was 81, having, in the meantime, taught in the schools, run a steam
                            flourmill, and been professor of natural science at Western Military Institute of 
                                Kentucky
                            .
               
                     their youth pass as pleasantly as possible."31 The research, always a concomitant of good teaching, went on at a very high
                    level. Troost, it is true, moved to 
                  Nashville,
                            Tennessee
               , in 1827 with his large
                    collections of natural history, and was, the following year, made professor of geology, mineralogy,
                    chemistry, and natural history at the university. But the technique he followed was Maclurian: he
                    built a large museum (the best west of the Appalachians) just as Maclure had done in 
                        Philadelphia
                    ,32 and, as the state geologist of 
                        Tennessee
                    , he did much to make its resources known. Lesueur, on the other hand, spent the next
                    twelve years of his life teaching drawing in the community school at 
                        New Harmony
                    , engraving plates, and sketching the specimens of 
                  St. Louis, New Orleans
               , and
                    nearby states. As his biographer acknowledged "les rêves de New-Harmony, ont
                    laissé Lesueur indifférent."33 He piloted the
                    Prince of Wied around,34 and, of course executed the illustrations for the work
                    of Thomas Say. It was Say's work, written at 
                        New Harmony
                    , on the conchology and entomology of the 
                        United States
                     that Maclure subsidized most heavily. Madame Fretageot was delegated by Maclure to run
                    the little community of scholars and teachers, as Maclure found yet another place where he could
                    live.
            According to the account of Silliman on November 17, 1828, Maclure appeared at a meeting of the
                    geological society "decidedly marked by age and infirmity." Silliman remarked
                    "the brilliant man whom I first saw twenty years before had now hoary locks; he stooped as
                    he walked, and an ulcer on his leg made him lame." Maclure had struck up a friendship with
                    Thomas Cooper, a man of as radical an outlook as his 
                  
                     31 Karl Bernhard, Duke of Saxe-Weimar Eisenach, Travels
                                Through North America during the Years 1825 and 1826 (2 volumes in one, 
                                Philadelphia
                            , 1828), II, 106-123.
                  
                     32 Maclure's work in helping the Academy of Natural Sciences
                            was acknowledged at his death.
                  
                     33 According to Loir, Charles Alexandre Lesueur, he
                            was making voyages with his sketchbook, and in the library of the museum at LeHavre, where
                            he returned after the death of Say in 1834, there were no less than seven hundred drawings.
                            He published at the 
                                New Harmony
                             Press in 1827 his work American Ichtyology, or Natural History of
                                the Fishes of North America, with Coloured Figures Executed From Nature.
                  
                  
                     34 Prince Maximilian von Neuwied with his corps of scientific
                            explorers spent the winter of 1832 at 
                                New Harmony
                            . With Teutonic thoroughness, he had an artist and taxidermist with him. He
                            published the account of his journey in Reise in das innere Nord-America in den
                                Jahren 1832 bis 1834 (2 vols., Coblentz, 1839-1841).
               
                     own.35 Maclure declared that he was now
                    living in 
                        Mexico
                    , and was intending to bring back a number of young native Indians in order to have them
                    educated in the 
                        United States
                    , and subsequently diffuse the benefits of instruction among the people of their own
                    race. He was as punctual a correspondent of Professor Silliman as before: from 
                        Jalapa
                     on February's, 1829, came a letters which Silliman published in his journal.
                    Entitled "Remarks on the Igneous theory of the Earth," it confessed
                    Maclure's surprise at the magnitude and respectability of the proofs" of the
                    volcanic theory. But what is even more significant is that P. L. A. Cordier, whose book Essai sur la Température de l'intérieur de la terre,
                    should have considered Maclure important enough to send him a copy for his opinion. Cordier was a
                    member of the French Academy, and the doyen of French geologists.36
            
            Before leaving for Mexico, Maclure had organized his "school of industry."
                    "Utility shall be the scale on which we shall endeavour to measure the value of
                    everything" he announced, and, on January 16, 1828, the 
                        New Harmony
                    
                    Disseminator first appeared to ventilate his ideas "edited printed and
                    published by the pupils of the school of industry." In this octavo semi-monthly,
                    Maclure's opinions were given to the world. From Mexico, he would communicate them, while
                    at 
                        New Harmony
                    , Madame Fretageot acted as his lieutenant, cossetting Say, ensuring that
                    d'Arusmont did his job, and ordering the numerous talent that had congregated at 
                        New Harmony
                    . The first number of the Disseminator announced: "these
                    sheets will contain observations on the possibility of improving practical education, by separating
                    the useful from the ornamental, and thereby reducing the labour and fatigue of instructing youth,
                    and we will endeavour to prove that children can educate, clothe and feed themselves by their own
                    labour when judiciously 
                  
                     35 Thomas Cooper (1759-1839), subject of a biographical study by Dumas
                            Malone, The Public Life of Thomas Cooper, 1783-1839
                                    (
                        New Haven, Connecticut
                     , 1926), had also emigrated from 
                                England
                            . He was a friend of Priestley, and Jefferson had wanted him to become the
                            cornerstone of the University of 
                                Virginia
                            . But Cooper preferred to hold the chair of chemistry at the University of 
                                South Carolina
                            , to which he was elected in January, 1820.
                  
                     36 P. L. A. Cordier, 1777-1861, had been a pupil of Dolomieu, whom he
                            accompanied to 
                                Egypt
                             with Napoleon in 1797. On his return he was made inspector of mines in the
                            Appenines. In 1819 he obtained the chair of geology of the museum, and in 1822 became a
                            member of the academy. He had sent his essay addressed to Maclure at 
                                New Harmony
                            .
               
                     applied to produce articles of real value." On June 29,
                    1830, as The Disseminator, it changed to folio form and continued till June 25,
                    1831. When the school of industry was abandoned, Maclure became editor and publisher of a new series
                    that ran from 1834-1835.
            His friend Silliman thought he was too modest in his management of the enterprise: "I have
                    always wished" he wrote to Maclure "that there might eventually be an
                    establishment on that subject to bear your name, and to diffuse knowledge and
                    benefit to this country, when you and I are gone. Even a posthumous dedication of
                    a small portion of your fine Western or Spanish territories would accomplish the object without
                    seriously interfering with your great and interesting undertaking at 
                        New Harmony
                    . Forgive this liberty … 37
            
            The break with 
                        New Harmony
                     had to come for Maclure. Say died in 1834, depriving him not only of one of his closest
                    associates, but also of one of his closest friends. Neef, who had left 
                        New Harmony
                     in 1828, returned once more in 1834, but this was counterbalanced by the loss of
                    Lesueur, who in 1836 returned to 
                        Paris
                    , whence he became director of the museum at 
                        Le Havre
                    . But perhaps the greatest blow of all was the loss of Marie Louise Duclos Fretageot:
                    who had managed his affairs so well since 1828. Not for nothing was she the wife of a colonel of
                    Hussars in Napoleon's army: for five years she had managed the little group of advanced
                    students, acting as midwife to all their literary productions. Since her death in 1833 was a serious
                    break in the chain of communicative control by which Maclure kept his hand on affairs in 
                        New Harmony
                    , he left his Mexican resting place. In the autumn of 1835 he gave his 
                        New Harmony
                     Library to the Academy of Natural Sciences at 
                        Philadelphia
                    , which deputed Dr. Charles Pickering to come and supervise its transit eastwards. The
                    2,259 volumes which went were a complete coverage of every department of useful knowledge,
                    especially of natural history and fine art. In addition, he gave to the Academy a ten thousand
                    dollar claim against the Spanish government which he possessed, following it up with a gift of
                    another ten thousand dollars in 1838. Such 
                  
                     37 Fisher, Life of Benjamin Silliman, II, 44, letter
                            dated April 13, 1829. Evidently Silliman did not think that 
                                New Harmony
                             was going downhill.
               
                     munificence enabled the society to build on the corner of Broad
                    and George Street a building in which they could hold their meetings. The first meeting, held on
                    February 7, 1840, marked the year of Maclure's death in Mexico.
            In bald narrative, the achievements do not seem much— a couple of settlements, one in 
                        Spain
                    , one in Indiana, both of which were failures. But underlying these was the surge and
                    tug of the ideas which he manipulated, the ambience of the men he brought to the west, and the
                    dominant impress of his own enthusiasm. Undoubtedly his geological enthusiasm weaned Owen's
                    sons from their father's political activities, and set them in the careers which they
                    followed. David Dale Owen's indication of the mineral riches of 
                        Iowa
                    , his classification of the subcarboniferous strata of Indiana (a name which he coined)
                    and his official reports, are themselves tributes to Maclure, whose infectious enthusiasm made 
                        New Harmony
                     the real center of 
                        United States
                     geology till the transfer to the Smithsonian Institution took place.
            Maclure had wider plans than that. He wanted his school of industry at 
                        New Harmony
                     to print editions of what he would call classics. He had a very real sense of the value
                    of useful knowledge, and savagely attacked what often passed for it. In a scathing indictment of
                    antiquarianism, he wrote: "I see nothing worth the trouble, in searching for antiquities,
                    and studying the learned disquisitions of antiquarians. The only use of both is to retard the
                    progress of the age, by neglecting the useful arts, of which the ancient were totally ignorant. I do
                    not remember ever having the occasion to examine the results of either, of antiquities or
                    antiquarians, but to find them in opposition to the general good, by supporting and enforcing
                    arbitrary maxims of what now may be called despotism; obstructing by sophistry and miscalled logic,
                    all the roads to the comfort and happiness of the millions; reasoning that because the ancients,
                    they call our masters, did not arrive at the same height of perfection, it is impossible for any of
                    the moderns to improve. I would not give a single new fact of the operations of the laws of nature,
                    for all the antiquities that exist."38 Here is your positivist speaking
                    with a vengeance!
            
               
                  38 See letter from Mexico dated February 26, 1828, in Maclure, Opinions on Various Subjects, 229.
            
            
            The light that radiated from 
                        New Harmony
                     was a very real one, and it shone in all sorts of places where it is difficult to
                        follow.39 The little friendless Irish boy, Edward Murphy, thought so much of
                    it, that when he became a man of substance, he left large sums of money to establish a library.
                    Horace Mann's cousin, Josiah Mann, was living here in 1850, and his three daughters married
                    into the Owen family.40 Bronson Alcott, then teaching in the center district
                    school of 
                  Cheshire, Connecticut
               , corresponded with the New Harmonists.41 Perhaps the most exciting whiff of what was happening on the 
                        Wabash
                     passed to young Abraham Lincoln: who is not only said to have seen the colonists pass
                    up the river on their way to 
                        New Harmony
                    , but also to have begged his father to let him join them (not because he was interested
                    in political ideas, for he would certainly never have heard of them) but because they had
                    books—and he was desperate to learn.42
            
            Maclure took good care that the light should shine after his death, for by his will, no less than one
                    hundred sixty libraries were set up or supplied from a fund which he provided for the purposes of
                    aiding instruction. The importance of these libraries in stimulating thought among ordinary people
                    when such institutions did not exist has yet to be calculated. Visitors like Constantine Raffinesque
                    (1783-1840), John J. Audubon (1785-1851), Joseph Leidy (1823-1891), Leo Lesquereux (1806-1889),
                    George Engelman (1809-1884) made the place a scientific mecca, to which such a world famous
                    geologist as Sir Charles Lyell had to pay his respects. Major Sidney Lyon, who superintended the
                    geodetic survey of 
                        Kentucky
                    , Professor H. A. Worthen, the state geologist of 
                        Illinois
                    , Professor E. T. Cox, the state geologist of Indiana, 
                  
                     39 Donald C. Peattie, Green Laurels (
                                London
                            , 1937), 264-288; Louis Martin Sears, "
                                New Harmony
                             and the American Spirit," Indiana Magazine of
                            History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1905-), XXXVIII (1942), 225-230; and Arthur Deen, "Early
                            Science in the Ohio Valley," ibid, XXXIII
                            (1937), 32-44, have essayed to do so.
                  
                     40 Elfrieda Lang, "The Inhabitants of 
                                New Harmony
                             According to the Federal Census of 1850," ibid.,
                            XLII (1942), 355-394 gives an analysis of the census returns of 1850.
                  
                     41 Odell Shepard, The Journals of Bronson Alcott (
                                Boston
                            , 1938), 4.
                  
                     42 John Strachey, The Theory and Practice of
                            Socialism (
                                London
                            , 1936), 290. He told Jesse Fell that in Indiana "there was absolutely
                            nothing to excite ambition for education."
               
                     and Dr. J. C. Norwood, who participated in the geological survey
                    of 
                        New York
                    , were all, in a real sense, 
                        New Harmony
                     men.
            Something of the infectious enthusiasm which must have prevailed at 
                        New Harmony
                     in the years 1825-1826 can be gathered from the lament of the county clerk of 
                        Greene County
                    , who wrote to the governor that the two associate judges had abandoned the county and
                    attached themselves to the new community on the banks of the 
                        Wabash
                    . One left in November, 1825, and the other in April, 1826.43 We can
                    only recapture it if we look at Maclure's own testament, his fiery Opinions on
                        Various Subjects, peppered with the commas which scar his prose and make his meaning so
                    opaque. Gathered in these two volumes are all his newspaper articles on education, his political
                    essays, and his philosophy. Breathing through them all is his fervid patriotism: as he urged
                    "we still continue to copy Britain in spite of fifty one years of independence. The
                    mechanism of our minds, like a clock wound up under the old colonial system, goes on without being
                    changed by external circumstances. But in no slavish imitation of the follies of Europe, have we
                    been so essentially injured in our vital principles, as in the copy we have taken and still continue
                    to take, of their absurd, monkish system of education."44 To this theme
                    he returned again and again. He guaranteed that he could teach geology in five lessons with properly
                    ticketed specimens.45 His enthusiasm for the economy of the Pestalozzian system,
                    and the healthy economy of Fellenberg's industrial schools never blinded him to the basic
                    needs of a democracy: positive knowledge. Without that, despotisms could trample as they had done in
                    Europe. He was no doctrinaire socialist, but a pioneer in the scientific movement in the West: one
                    of the creators of the new humanism.
            
               
                  43 Dorothy Riker (ed.), Executive Proceedings of the State of
                            Indiana, 1816-1836 (
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1947), 447. This is volume XXIX of the Indiana Historical Collections.
               
               
                  44 See his essays X-XXVI in Opinions on Various
                        Subjects. The quotation is from page 105.
               
                  45
                        Ibid., 51.
            
         
         
         
            Early American Geologists and the Oil Industry
            F. Garvin Davenport∗
            
            Petroleum has been known for centuries in various parts of the world, but it was not until the famous
                    Drake well was drilled in 1859 that it suddenly assumed the proportions of an industry. Petroleum is
                    one form of bitumen which also occurs as asphalt, as a semifluid substance called maltha and the
                    natural gas which is so familiar to Americans of the twentieth century. All forms of bitumen were
                    known to ancient people. The word "slime" as used in Genesis probably refers to
                    the soft bitumen of the Euphrates Valley and some form of semifluid bitumen was used as mortar in
                    the construction of 
                        Nineveh
                     and Babylon. Petroleum is mentioned in the early writings of the Arabs and by the
                    historian Herodotus. Pliny described oil that was used in lamps under the name of "Sicilian
                    Oil." The oil springs of Baku, which frequently burned in spectacular fashion, attracted
                    the attention of early travelers including that imaginative globe-trotter, 
                        Marco Polo
                    .1
            
            In North America it seems evident that the Indians, particularly the Iroquois and their ancestors in
                    the Great Lakes region, were aware of the oil springs at an early date. Undoubtedly, they used the
                    oil as a base for war paint and as medicine. French missionaries noticed traces of petroleum in the
                    Great Lakes country early in the seventeenth century and by the middle of the eighteenth century the
                    famous Oil Creek in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     was receiving some attention in travel books.2 After the
                    Revolution, American troops guarding the western frontier posts used the oil for tired feet and
                    aching joints.3
            
            
               
                  ∗ F. Garvin Davenport is professor of history and chairman of
                        the department of history and government at Monmouth College, 
                     Monmouth, Illinois
                  .
                        This paper was read at the session on "The Petroleum Industry" at the
                        forty-third annual meeting of the Mississippi Valley Historical Association
                        at 
                     Oklahoma City, Oklahoma
                  , on April 21, 1950.
               
                  1 S. F. Peckham, "Report on the Production, Technology, and Uses
                        of Petroleum and Its Products," in House Miscellaneous Documents, 47
                        Cong., 2 Sess., no. 42 (serial no. 2139), 3-4, 10.
               
                  2
                        Ibid., 5.
               
                  3 J. T. Henry, The Early and Later History of Petroleum, with
                            Authentic Facts in Regard to its Development in 
                                Western Pennsylvania
                            
                   (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1873), 2.
            
            
            As the hunters and pioneers moved into the Midwest and Upper South, they noticed oil springs and
                    greasy streams in 
                  Ohio, Kentucky
               , and 
                        Tennessee
                    . In 
                        Ohio
                     and western 
                        Virginia
                     pioneer salt-well drillers encountered oil on the Great and Little Kanawha and in the
                    Muskingum Valley.4 Later, part of this district was known as the White Oak
                    Anticlinal or the so-called 
                        West Virginia
                     Oil Break. Early salt wells bored in 
                        Kentucky
                     and 
                        Tennessee
                    , especially in the valleys of the Big Sandy and the Cumberland, produced oil in
                    sufficient quantities to be troublesome. The Beatty well in 
                        Kentucky
                    , bored about 1819, produced more oil than brine and was abandoned as useless for more
                    than thirty years. Sometimes there were startling and unexpected results from well drilling in these
                    early years. In 1828 a driller from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     sank a well near 
                  Burkesville, Kentucky
               , which struck oil instead of salt. When
                    the well was finished it became ignited and the driller, who had boasted on starting the well that
                    he would either find salt or bore into hell, was satisfied that he had accomplished the latter.5
            
            Oil in the salt wells was a nuisance, but the petroleum had some commercial value even in the early
                    frontier period of the west. At the time of the westward migration at the beginning of the
                    nineteenth century the methods of collecting the oil were very primitive. The most popular procedure
                    consisted in throwing a coarse blanket into the oil spring and allowing the cloth to absorb the oil.
                    The blanket was wrung out into a tub or barrel and the operation repeated. Some frontiersmen
                    collected oil in five-gallon kegs which they exchanged in 
                        Pittsburgh
                     for hardware or food staples needed by the family. This method of barter was not
                    dependable since the demand of the local apothecaries was limited and two large barrels of oil would
                    glut the market.6
            
            Since the pioneers believed that the oil had almost miraculous medicinal powers, it was inevitable
                    that every quack and pill vendor of the frontier either used it in his practice or sold it wholesale
                    as a miracle drug capable of curing a 
                  
                     4 Peckham, "Report on the Production, Technology, and Uses of
                            Petroleum and Its Products," in House Miscellaneous Documents, 47
                            Cong., 2 Sess., no. 42, pp. 7-8.
                  
                     5 Clarence M. Gaines, A History of the Oil Fields of 
                                    Western Kentucky
                                 District (
                        Bowling
                                Green, Kentucky
                     ,
                            1922?), 3.
                  
                     6
                            Annual Report of the Geological Survey of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 for 1886 (
                                Harrisburg
                            , 1887), Part II, 589-590.
               
                     remarkable array of ailments. Among these were fever (all
                    types), dyspepsia, cholera, and tape work. In addition, the settlers along the frontier used the oil
                    as a cough medicine, a laxative, a liniment for rheumatism, saddle bruises, and charley horses. It
                    was considered very effective on minor burns and it was used extensively in fly season to bring some
                    degree of comfort to domestic animals. Some men claimed that the oil made a very good hog dip and
                    others declared that when it was mixed with the proper ingredients, it made an excellent spring
                    tonic for man or beast.7
            
            In later years crude petroleum was used for more practical purposes. It proved to be superior to
                    animal oils when used as a machine lubricant and in spite of its stench, it was used for
                    illuminating purposes in certain localities. It was beginning to be popular locally as an illuminant
                    in 
                        Ohio
                     by 1850 although its use there as elsewhere was retarded by the introduction of a cheap
                    coal oil.8 However, by 1858, largely because of the experimentation of A. C.
                    Ferris of 
                        New York
                     with oil and oil lamps, the public was becoming increasingly interested in petroleum as
                    a practical illuminant. It was this potential market that prompted the formation of the first
                    petroleum companies between 1854 and 1858 which in turn began the trend of drilling for oil, using the salt-well technique, in order to secure the "black
                    gold" in large quantities.9
            
            It is pertinent to the theme of this article to notice that the promoters of the early companies saw
                    the practical value of scientists as consultants. At this time it was not the geologist who was
                    employed but the chemist, and the services requested did not include field surveys but laboratory
                    tests of the crude oil from the seepages to determine its commercial value. The most important of
                    the pioneer advisers was Benjamin Silliman, Jr., of Yale College who was recognized as an eminent
                    authority in chemistry. He was also interested in geology but his employers were concerned primarily
                    with 
                  
                     7
                            Ibid., 590; J. S. Newberry, "The Rock Oils of 
                                Ohio
                            ," in Fourteenth Annual Report of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 State Board of Agriculture … 1859 (
                                Columbus
                            , 1860), 605-618 and especially 612.
                  
                     8 Newberry, "The Rock Oils of 
                                Ohio
                            ," in Fourteenth Annual Report of the 
                                    Ohio
                                 State Board of Agriculture, 612-613.
                  
                     9 For the best account of the early oil companies see Paul H. Giddens,
                                The Birth of the Oil Industry (
                                New York
                            , 1938), especially chapters three and four.
               
                     the important chemical report on 
                        Pennsylvania
                     crude that he issued from his laboratory. In 1854, Silliman was engaged by Jonathan G.
                    Eveleth and George H. Bissell, who were organizing the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Rock Oil Company of 
                        New York
                    , to analyze samples of oil from their Titusville property. In April of 1855, Silliman
                    made his historical report which eventually led to the drilling of the Drake well in 1859.10
            
            Silliman's report was important for several reasons. For the first time it was
                    scientifically demonstrated that the refined oil was not only valuable as an illuminating oil but
                    that it was superior to any of the important means of artificial illumination known at the time with
                    the possible exception of the English Argand gas burner.11 To prove the point,
                    Silliman invented an original photometer by means of which he brought the petroleum light into rigid
                    comparison with the illumination of camphene lamps, sperm oil lamps, coal oil and gas burners.12 Furthermore, he anticipated and described the early methods of distilling
                    petroleum that were to be adopted by manufacturers. He used the method that became known as
                    "cracking" and suggested the use of steam for distillation, an idea that was to be
                    adopted and exploited by Joshua Merrill, a manufacturing chemist on the staff of the Downer Kerosene
                    Oil Company of 
                        Boston
                    .13
            
            Eveleth and Bissell were pleased with Silliman's report. With the hope of securing 
                        New England
                     capital they reorganized the company and incorporated the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Rock Oil Company of 
                        Connecticut
                     with Benjamin Silliman, Jr., as president. Thus there came about the wedding of science
                    and capital but the honeymoon was of brief duration. Internal dissension among the stockholders plus
                    the disturbing effects of the panic of 1857 quickly terminated the activities of this organization.
                    It was succeeded by the Seneca Oil Company which was incorporated in 1858. This firm was responsible
                    for the drilling of the Drake well at 
                        Titusville
                     in 1859.14
            
            
               
                  10 B. Silliman, Jr., "Report of the Rock Oil, or Petroleum, from
                        Venango Co., 
                            Pennsylvania
                        ," in American Chemist (7 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1870-1877), II (1871-1872), 18-28.
               
                  11
                        Ibid., 22-23.
               
                        12
                        Ibid.
                    
               
                  13
                        Ibid., 401-403; see also, Henry, Early and Later History of
                            Petroleum, 38-54; Paul H. Giddens, 
                     
                                Pennsylvania
                             Petroleum, 1750-1872, A Documentary History (
                     Titusville, Pennsylvania
                  , 1947), 127-129.
               
                  14 For the history of the companies see Giddens, Birth of the
                            Oil Industry, chapters three and four.
            
            
            The Drake well proved that a commercial supply of petroleum could be obtained by drilling directly
                    into the rock or "oil sands," and the successful operation of this well marks the
                    beginning of the petroleum industry. It attracted the attention of geologists, promoters,
                    prospectors, and businessmen and soon additional wells were being drilled mostly on a helter skelter
                    basis since no one had a sound theory relative to petroleum origin and occurrence. Most of the new
                    wells were drilled on the assumption that if Drake could get oil from a hole in the rock, so could
                    other men.
            The early methods of well drilling would seem simple and inexpensive today but they certainly marked
                    a revolutionary advance over the frontier "soaked blanket" technique. In
                            
                  Pennsylvania, New
                        York
               , and 
                        Ohio
                     the well was drilled with iron or wooden rods, or both combined. If the rock was
                    covered with a layer of soil or quicksand, a cast-iron pipe was driven down to the oil level. The
                    drill hole and the pipe varied from three to six inches in diameter. Great care was taken to drill
                    the hole perpendicular otherwise the pump would never set properly. Small mirrors were used to
                    reflect the sun's rays into the well so that its condition could be determined and errors
                    corrected before the pump was set in place. If the borehole filled with water at a short distance
                    from the surface, it was more difficult, if not impossible, to examine the well accurately.15
            
            The pump was of copper or iron and operated by a five-horse power engine. Barren water veins above
                    the oil pool were stopped by a "seed bag." This was a leather jacket filled with
                    dry flaxseed and placed around the pump. When in place, the water expanded the seed and the jacket
                    swelled into a water tight packing. Since most of the oil came with water, it was run off into a
                    series of large vats of varying depth which separated the oil from the water. From the last vat the
                    pure oil was drawn off into casks and shipped to market.16
            
            The cost of well construction varied from place to place depending on the depth of the boring,
                    hardness of the rock, and the price of labor and supplies. In eastern 
                        Ohio
                     a six-inch boring one hundred feet deep cost two hundred and fifty 
                  
                     15 Newberry, "The Rock Oils in 
                                Ohio
                            ," in Fourteenth Annual Report of the State Board of
                                Agriculture, 614.
                  
                     16
                            Ibid., 615.
               
                     dollars in labor. The pump and frame cost an additional one
                    hundred and sixty dollars. A four-horse power engine was worth about five hundred dollars and three
                    run-off vats could be purchased for ninety dollars. About five hundred dollars was allowed for
                    operating expenses during the boring process bringing the total cost of the well to fifteen hundred
                    dollars. Daily operating expenses for a moderately productive well were estimated at twenty-five or
                    thirty dollars per day. Such a well, producing at least ten barrels17 per day
                    produced a daily profit of eighty-three dollars when oil was quoted at twenty-five cents per gallon
                    at the well.18
            
            During the years following the development of the Drake well men pursued the smell of petroleum with
                    the same feverish determination that had characterized the gold prospector in the rush of
                    forty-nine. According to Alexander Winchell, one of the early oil geologists, the wildcatters could
                    not be convinced "that mineral oil is a geological product, fixed in its relations to the
                    earth and to the strata, as unchangeably and as intelligibly as iron or salt. They would not listen
                    to the counsel of science. Every man was confident in his self-wisdom, and never inquired on what
                    grounds he believed and acted as he did."19 Of course, in the
                    1860's geologists themselves did not know very much about the subject and they made many
                    mistakes in their efforts to locate oil. These errors in judgment caused promoters and businessmen
                    to look askance at geologists and the science was given a stigma which, while unjust, was difficult
                    to eradicate. The profession was discredited still more by unscrupulous quacks who advertised
                    themselves as trained and reputable geologists. By 1880 it was a common saying among oilmen that if
                    they wanted to make sure of a dry hole, they would employ a geologist to select the location.20
            
            Slowly but surely the geologists developed sound theories pertaining to oil occurrence and eventually
                    these ideas were 
                  
                     17 In 1859 a barrel contained forty gallons of oil.
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., 616.
                  
                     19 Alexander Winchell, Walks and Talks in the Geological
                                Field (
                                New York
                            , 1890), 135.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., 136; Gaines, A History of the Oil Fields of the 
                                    Western Kentucky
                                 District, 1-5; J. A. Udden, "Hints to Prospective
                            Geologists," in Bulletin of the Southwestern Association of Petroleum.
                                Geologists (
                        Austin, Texas
                     , 1917-), I, 129; I. C. White,
                            "The Mannington Oil Field and the History of its Development," in Bulletin of the Geological Society of America (
                                Rochester
                            , 1890-), III (1892), 193.
               
                     accepted by scientists and oilmen alike. Among the early writers
                    on this subject were T. Sterry Hunt, E. B. Andrews, and Alexander Winchell. Hunt (1826-1892) had
                    been a student in the chemistry course taught by Benjamin Silliman, Jr., at Yale, and in 1847 he was
                    appointed chemist and mineralogist of the geological survey of 
                        Canada
                    . While performing his duties in this connection, he observed that Canadian oil occurred
                    "along the line of a low, broad anticlinal axis."21 This seems
                    to be the first time that the anticlinal fold was associated with oil accumulation. Hunt published
                    his views in an article in the Canadian Naturalist for August, 1861, and modern
                    authorities claim that had he backed up his anticlinal reservoir theory with additional factual
                    evidence based on actual field observation, he would have become an outstanding petroleum authority.
            While Hunt was developing his theory in 
                        Canada
                    , E. B. Andrews of Marietta College came to a similar conclusion after a study of the
                    oil regions of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    .22 Andrews published his conclusions in December, 1861, but neither
                    his report nor Hunt's stimulated the comment that they deserved. Nothing more of importance
                    to the oil prospector was advanced by the geological profession until 1865. In that year, Alexander
                    Winchell (1824-1892), who had been surveying the bituminized shales of 
                        Michigan
                    , called attention to the very essential need of an impervious rock covering for the oil
                    sands in order to prevent spontaneous distillation. He was the first to point out that wherever the
                    oil producing shales were exposed to the atmosphere or were covered with a porous medium, the oil
                    and gas slowly escaped and were lost. On the other hand, where the oil rock was covered by an
                    impenetrable layer of rock or heavy clay the oil and gas were retained, gradually forcing out the
                    water and saturating whatever porus strata there was in the formation. The saturated porus strata
                    then became a tightly capped oil reservoir.23
                    
                  
                     21 Quoted in George P. Merrill, The First One Hundred
                                Years of American Geology (
                        New
                                Haven, Connecticut
                     ,
                            1924), 400.
                  
                     22 E. B. Andrews, "Rock Oil, Its Geological Relations and
                            Distribution," in American Journal of Science and Arts, Second
                            Series (50 vols., 
                        New Haven, Connecticut
                     , 1846-1870), XXXII (1861),
                            85-93 and especially 88.
                  
                     23 Alexander Winchell, "Report on 
                                St. Clair County
                             Oil Rocks," in ibid., XXXIX (1865), 350-353.
               
                     Winchell also accepted the anticlinal theory although he used
                    the word arch instead of anticline.24
            
            Although these theories were fundamentally sound they were given little publicity at this time and
                    several decades went by before a practical working hypothesis for oil prospecting was worked out,
                    successfully demonstrated and generally accepted. Meanwhile, geological field work continued, and
                    the state surveys in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     were especially valuable to the growing oil industry and to the geologists who were
                    interested in petroleum. From time to time geologists demonstrated that their scientific knowledge
                    was expanding and that this knowledge when properly applied to a given problem possessed a practical
                    value. A striking example was the successful drilling of a well at Brady's
                            
                  Bend, Pennsylvania
               , in 1865. The Brady's Bend Iron Works Company
                    consulted the well-known geologist J. P. Lesley (1819-1903) for an opinion on the probable depth at
                    which oil could be reached on their property. Lesley, who had made a thorough study of the
                    formations in the vicinity, promptly made his computations and predicted that oil should be found at
                    a depth of eleven hundred feet. Acting on his advice the company drilled the well and struck oil at
                    eleven hundred and twenty feet.25
            
            Perhaps Lesley was lucky because few geologists made predictions as accurate as this at this time.
                    Generally speaking, in the 1860's and 70's wells were still being drilled merely
                    because the hills or ledges seemed to resemble other topographical features where petroleum had been
                    discovered. In 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , it was noted that the oil pools tended to be elongated, with a nearly straight axis of
                    a fixed magnetic bearing. This caused the development of the "degree lines" or
                    "oil belt" school of thought.26 When founded on fact, such
                    lines proved to be helpful in drilling in certain cases, but frequently the idea was carried to
                    extremes and applied to districts far removed from those where the original basic data had been
                    gathered. One "oil belt" expert ran a line for sixty-five miles through the woods
                    and terminated his survey, 
                  
                            24
                            Ibid.
                        
                  
                     25 Peckham, "Report on the Production, Technology, and Uses
                            of Petroleum and Its Products," in House Miscellaneous Documents,
                            47 Cong., 2 Sess., no. 42, p. 49.
                  
                     26 Myron L. Fuller, "Appalachian Oil Field," in Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, XXVIII (1917), 625.
               
                     by coincidence, at a productive well. This incident was proof to
                    many that all the lands through which the line had been run contained valuable oil deposits.27
            
            John Franklin Carll (1828-1904), who was in charge of the petroleum department of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     survey under Lesley from 1874 to 1885 considered the belt-line theory the best of the
                    old methods, but he was among the first to demonstrate that it was not infallible. He described the
                    belt method of oil prospecting as "an attempt, by means of compass lines, to keep on the
                    axis of the sand deposit," as shown by previous experience and oil well development. It was
                    unfortunate that the oil sands had been directed by the very unstable agent, water, and consequently
                    had not been laid down on a straight and continuous line. This natural condition, he pointed out,
                    was the fallacy in the oil belt theory. Unexpected breaks and curves in the oil sands and gravels
                    made the application of a dogmatic formula of this type a risk and not a certainty in the search for
                    new wells.28
            
            According to Carll, the best guides for the oil prospector were the rocks themselves and while he did
                    not condemn the anticlinal theory, he was very critical of it and thought that it should be used
                    with caution. He agreed with Winchell that there should be a reservoir to hold the oil and a good
                    impervious cover to prevent its escape.29 Carll was the first geologist to
                    thoroughly describe the structure of the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     oil formations and at least one student of his career asserts that he created the
                    geology of petroleum.30 However, the fact remains that he failed to see the
                    correlation between the oil and gas wells already in operation and the anticlinal folds that were
                    plainly indicated on his own maps.31 It remained for I. C. White of 
                        West Virginia
                     and Edward Orton of 
                        Ohio
                     to 
                  
                     27
                            Ibid., also, Peckham, "Report on the Production, Technology, and
                            Uses of Petroleum and Its Products," in House Miscellaneous
                            Documents, 47 Cong., 2 Sess., no. 42, p. 45 and map between pp. 44-45.
                  
                     28
                            Annual Report of the Geological Survey of 
                                    Pennsylvania
                                 for 1885 (
                                Harrisburg
                            , 1886), 74.
                  
                     29
                            Ibid., 73-81.
                  
                     30 Katherine W. Clendinning, "John Franklin Carll,"
                                Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1928-1936), III (1929), 496.
                  
                     31 Carll's work was defended by Charles A. Ashburner and
                            other 
                                Pennsylvania
                             geologists at this time (1885). See for example, Science
                                    (
                        Cambridge, Massachusetts
                     , and 
                                New York
                            , 1883-), VI (1885), 42-43; also Peckham, "Report on the Production,
                            Technology, and Uses of Petroleum and Its Products," in House
                                Miscellaneous Documents, 47 Cong., 2 Sess., no. 42, p. 52.
               
                     demonstrate and popularize the anticlinal theory.32 White in particular was a prominent figure in the movement to convince oilmen that
                    geological knowledge was indispensable to the economy of the industry. The field work that he
                    started in 1883 and the publicity that he gave to it during the next two decades revolutionized the
                    field techniques of the petroleum industry.33
            
            Israel Charles White was born in 
                  Monongalia County, Virginia
                (later 
                        West Virginia
                    ) in 1848. He attended the local public schools and graduated from the University of 
                        West Virginia
                     in 1872. For a time he studied geology in the graduate school of 
                        Columbia
                     University but he gave up graduate work in 1877 in order to accept a position as
                    professor of geology at his Alma Mater. He taught at the University of 
                        West Virginia
                     until 1892, devoting his vacation periods to field work in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     where he was attached to Lesley's survey. From 1884 to 1888 he was also an
                    assistant geologist on the 
                        United States
                     Geological Survey, devoting most of his attention to the stratigraphy of the bituminous
                    coal field of 
                  Pennsylvania, Ohio
               , and 
                        West Virginia
                    .
            He advocated the establishment of a geological survey for his native state, 
                        West Virginia
                    , and when the survey was actually organized in 1897, he was appointed to the office of
                    superintendent. He spent the rest of his life in this position. During his administration of the
                    survey, he personally supervised the preparation of a complete set of topographical maps covering
                    the entire state and published thirty-four geological reports. Five of the reports, including two on
                    petroleum, he wrote himself.34
            
            When he accepted the position of chief of staff on the 
                        West Virginia
                     survey, White was already foremost among petroleum geologists in the 
                        United States
                     and his reputation was beginning to spread to Latin America and Europe. His reputation
                    was built on his careful field work and on his clear 
                  
                     32 In the early 1880's, F. W. Minshall, an experienced
                            geologist and oilman, after a special study of the 
                                West Virginia
                             "Oil Break" published some interesting observations on the
                            nature of anticlines but his ideas were almost unnoticed at the time. Report of
                                the Geological Survey of 
                                    Ohio
                                
                      (
                                Columbus
                            , 1873-), VI (1888), 90.
                  
                     33 Fuller, "Appalachian Oil Fields," in Bulletin, of the Geological Society of America, XXVIII, 626.
                  
                     34 George P. Merrill, "Israel Charles White," Dictionary of American Biography, XX (1936), 107-108.
               
                     exposition and actual demonstration of the anticlinal theory.35 He made the first of these revolutionary field tests in 1883 and the results
                    convinced him that the anticlinal theory was valid and should be generally adopted.36
            
            White possessed some of the characteristics of the typical crusader. He was anxious to prevent the
                    waste of man power and the waste of capital in the fruitless drilling for oil and gas in areas where
                    it could not exist. He was also concerned over the stigma that had been placed on the geological
                    profession by skeptical and prejudiced oilmen. Since he believed sincerely that the anticlinal
                    theory was the best guide to petroleum deposits, he was determined to win the support of geologists
                    and oilmen alike and with this objective in mind he began what he called the battle against
                    prejudice by publishing several articles in 1885 that were based on his successful field
                        demonstrations.37 New demonstrations were followed by additional reports and
                    articles. Then in 1892 he republished his most important articles because he was certain that many
                    geologists had not seen them before and he was determined that they should.38
            
            Undoubtedly there were many geologists who did not read his articles and some of those who did flatly
                    refused to accept his general thesis. However, it was impossible to overlook his remarkable success
                    in locating oil and gas in commercial quantities. For example, during the 1880's he located
                    in 
                        Pennsylvania
                     the 
                        Washington
                     gas and oil field, the Grapeville gas pool, and the Belle Vernon field. The celebrated
                    Taylortown oil horizon had been located and mapped by White long before the actual drilling proved
                    that his conclusions 
                  
                     35 White, "The Mannington Oil Field and the History of Its
                            Development," in Bulletin of the Geological Society of America,
                            III, 204ff; Fuller, "Appalachian Oil Field," in ibid.,
                            XXVIII, 626-627.
                  
                     36 White, "The Mannington Oil Field and the History of Its
                            Development," in Bulletin of the Geological Society of America,
                            III, 204ff; Fuller, "Appalachian Oil Field, in ibid., XXVIII,
                            626-627. At this time White was employed by the Forest Oil Company whose president, J. J.
                            Vandergrift, had more faith in geologists than the majority of his contemporaries.
                            Vandergrift had been influenced by William Earseman, a successful oilman who had made a
                            special study of Carll's stratigraphic reports. All three men should be given some
                            credit for White's subsequent success.
                  
                     37 I. C. White, "The Geology of Natural Gas," in Science, V (1886), 521-522; VI, 42-43, 184-185.
                  
                     38 White, "The Mannington Oil Field and the History of Its
                            Development," in Bulletin of the Geological Society of America,
                            III, 194.
               
                     had been accurate once more.39 The crucial
                    test of his theory, however, was made in 1889 on the Mannington field in 
                        West Virginia
                    .
            The Mannington oil field in 
                  Marion County, West Virginia
               , was developed by White and his
                    associates and its location was made from purely scientific deductions in which the anticlinal
                    theory was of paramount importance. When White was surveying the field and predicting that oil would
                    be found there, oilmen and geologists were skeptical. The test of his knowledge and of his theories
                    came with the drilling. It was a long and tedious process and even White became discouraged when
                    rocks thickened where they should have thinned and when the intervals between strata were not what
                    the calculations had indicated they should be. Day after day the drill cut deeper into the rock. The
                    geologists became anxious; the scoffers continued to smile knowingly to themselves. And then
                    suddenly, success! On October 11, 1889, the drill struck saturated oil sand and the black gold began
                    to flow in large quantities.40
            
            White's successful demonstration on the Mannington field was a very important episode in the
                    history of petroleum geology. As White himself said, "It taught the practical oil men once
                    for all that they could not afford to disregard geological truths in their search for oil
                        deposits."41 The fight against the old prejudices was beginning to
                    be won and White deserves a great deal of credit for his role in the struggle. Certainly he did more
                    than any other geologist to popularize the anticlinal theory. The importance of the accomplishment
                    was clearly summarized by Edward Orton (1829-1899), 
                        Ohio
                    's state geologist (1882-1899), when he asserted that while there was
                    "no element of the theory as stated by Professor White that differs from the theory as
                    stated before,42 his applications of it are bold and, best of all, successful,
                    marking a new period in our study of the geology of oil and gas."43
            
            Orton, too, applied rather boldly the principles of the 
                  
                     39
                            Ibid., 195.
                  
                     40
                            Ibid., 198-199.
                  
                     41
                            Ibid., 199.
                  
                     42 That is, the anticlinal theory as described by Hunt, Winchell, and
                            Andrews.
                  
                     43
                            Eighth Annual Report of the 
                                    United States
                                 Geological Survey, 1886-87, printed as House Executive
                                Documents, 50 Cong., 1 Sess., no. 1 (serial no., 2544), 516-517.
               
                     anticlinal theory to the gas and oil fields of 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana. After he had examined the Findlay and 
                        Kokomo
                    -
                        Muncie
                     gas and oil regions, he found that some modifications of the basic theory were
                    necessary. For example, the heart of the Indiana gas field was not a true anticline but a high lying
                    formation that resembled a terrace, which may be described as a flattened arch or roll, so
                    constructed that the oil and gas could be arranged within the rocks in order of their specific
                    gravity much as they would do in a perfect anticline. Orton's "terrace
                    principle," which was defined about 1886, became an important and practical corollary of
                    the anticlinal theory.44
            
            Orton's administration of the 
                        Ohio
                     survey was very efficient and productive. His reports on coal, oil, and gas were
                    scholarly and thorough and they became the basic authorities for the state, ranking in importance
                    with the publications of Carll and White. It was Orton and his associates who discovered that the
                    main street of 
                  Findlay, Ohio
               , was above an anticlinal dip in the oil producing
                    Trenton Limestone of that area. Gas had been discovered there more or less by accident in November,
                    1884, and before long geologists, oil, and gas men were on the scene. Almost immediately the
                    so-called practical prospectors began to lay their belt lines in all directions but especially north
                    forty-five degrees east, which had become the most popular line in the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     fields. Advice from the geologists was ignored and numerous wells were drilled on the
                    basis of the belt theory with the expected results from the scientific point of view: most of the
                    wells were failures. This effort, however, was not entirely wasted as the geologists were able to
                    secure valuable information from the drilling without any expense or effort on their part. According
                    to Orton, this wildcat drilling proved again the worthlessness of lines or belts as guides to
                    productive horizons.45 More scientific prospecting helped to develop the Findlay
                    field and by 1886 the town was experiencing a typical boom complete with industrial and real estate
                    promoters. The city government bought out the local gas company 
                  
                     44
                            Ibid., 639-640; Edward Orton, "Origin of the Rock Pressure of
                            Natural Gas in the Trenton Limestone of 
                                Ohio
                             and Indiana," in Bulletin of the Geological Society of
                                America, I (1890), 87-94; also, White, "The Mannington Oil Field and the
                            History of Its Development," in ibid., III, 193-197.
                  
                     45
                            Eighth Annual Report of the 
                                    United States
                                 Geological Survey, 1886-87, printed as House Executive
                                Documents, 50 Cong., 1 Sess., no. 1, pp. 538-540.
               
                     and reduced the gas rates for fuel and illumination to a
                    ridiculously low figure. Under the circumstances the use of gas was lavish and wasteful and Orton,
                    who had made a special study of oil and gas accumulation, warned of the probability of the
                    exhaustion of the supply. He was the first geologist to promote conservation practices where
                    petroleum products were concerned.
            The contributions of White and Orton helped convince the oilmen that geologists could be assets to
                    their business. Additional prestige was brought to the profession by the publications of the federal
                    survey which were based on extensive field work in the Midwest, 
                        Texas
                    , and 
                        California
                    . There were many capable geologists attached to the survey at the end of the nineteenth
                    and beginning of the twentieth century and they brought to light knowledge of numerous oil bearing
                    areas, usually as the result of the application of principles developed by White. At the turn of the
                    century, White was regarded as the pioneer and the guide of the profession of petroleum
                        geologists.46 It would seem that his popularity was deserved because the new
                    oil discoveries gave additional proof of the general soundness of his fundamental hypothesis. In
                    1905 oil was discovered in 
                        Illinois
                     at the end of the La Salle Anticline,47 and in 1911 boom conditions
                    developed at Carlyle when productive wells were drilled in the Carlyle Anticline.48 Similar developments took place in 
                  Kentucky, Texas, California
               , and 
                        Oklahoma
                    , and in each new oil field the relationship between the productive sands and definite
                    types of rock formations was obvious to geologists. Writing in 1915, Carroll W. Wegemann of the 
                        United States
                     Geological Survey summed up the anticlinal theory as it was understood at that time.
                    "In a large proportion of the oil fields of the world," he wrote, "the
                    accumulation of the oil is controlled principally by the structure of the rocks in which it is
                    contained. In 
                        Northern Texas
                     and 
                        Oklahoma
                     the structure is unquestionably one of the controlling factors, the oil in all the
                    fields explored having accumulated along the axes or on 
                  
                     46 H. B. Goodrich, "[Petroleum Geology]; Its Past and Its
                            Future," in Bulletin of the American Association of Petroleum
                                Geologists, V (1921), 452.
                  
                     47 Fred H. Kay, "Oil Fields of 
                                Illinois
                            ," in Bulletin of the Geological Society of America,
                            XXVIII, 659.
                  
                     48 E. W. Shaw, "The Carlyle Oil Field and Surrounding
                            Territory," in Extract from. Bulletin 20, 
                                    Illinois
                                 State Geological Survey (
                                Urbana
                            , 1912), 20, 25-28.
               
                     the flanks of anticlines, domes, or monoclines. Even the
                    accumulations that apparently lie in synclines … are probably controlled by the
                    monoclinal structure on which the shallow synclines are superimposed."49 A quarter of a century earlier, White of 
                        West Virginia
                     and Orton in Indiana and 
                        Ohio
                     had arrived at a similar conclusion.
            In the twentieth century the continued success of the application of geological principles to oil
                    prospecting brought about closer co-operation between oilmen and petroleum geologists. By 1920,
                    although quack geologists and "unwashed" wildcatters were still in evidence, big
                    business fully recognized the value of the trained scientist. Even before the turn of the century,
                    Carll was on the payroll of Standard Oil,50 E. T. Dumble was appointed
                    consulting geologist to the Southern Pacific Railroad, and W. W. Orcutt organized and headed the
                    geological department of the Union Oil Company of 
                        California
                    .51 After 1900 other oil companies began to employ geologists either
                    as consultants or as full time employees. One of the most enthusiastic pioneer supporters of geology
                    as the handmaiden of the oil industry was Frank Adair Leovy of the Gulf Corporation. Leovy was also
                    a pioneer in using applied seismology and geophysics as an aid to the oil prospector. In later years
                    he established at Gulf a complete research department charged with the responsibility of developing
                    improved methods of locating oil fields.52
            
            Modern oil companies know the value of trained petroleum geologists and the role played by geology
                    increases in importance year by year. Since modern wells may cost from seventy-five to five hundred
                    thousand dollars, random drilling is a luxury that few companies can afford. The philosophy of
                    modern oilmen was expressed in 1922 when Robert S. Ellison, Vice-President of the Midwest Refining
                    Company 
                  
                     49 Carroll H. Wegemann, "Anticlinal Structure in Parts of 
                                Cotton
                             and 
                        Jefferson Counties, Oklahoma
                     ," in 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Geological Survey, Bulletin 602 (
                                Washington
                            , 1915), 96; also, Dorsey Hager, "The Evidence of the 
                                Oklahoma
                             Oil Fields on the Anticlinal Theory," in Transactions of
                                American Institute of Mining Engineers (
                                New York
                            , 1871-), LVI (1917), 843-855.
                  
                     50 The author is indebted to Dr. Ralph W. Hidy, Business History
                            Foundation, for this information.
                  
                     51
                            National Petroleum News, December 17, 1924; W. R. Hamilton,
                            "Development of Petroleum Geology in 
                                California
                            ," Bulletin of the American Association of Petroleum
                                Geologists, V, 458-459.
                  
                     52 Memorial delivered at the dedication of the Leovy Geophysical
                            Laboratory, 1949 (typed MS); K. C. Heald to the author, 
                                Pittsburgh
                            , October 31, 1949.
               
                     of 
                        Denver
                    , wrote, "I would hesitate to undertake to pilot any concern, however, without
                    loyal, competent, experienced geologists."53 He could have mentioned
                    the fact that by the 1920's capital for development could be secured in most cases only on
                    a favorable report of a reputable geologist.54
            
            In following the main theme of this paper considerable attention has been given to the role of the
                    geologist in the history and development of the oil industry. In closing, it seems appropriate to
                    summarize the distinct contributions made by the industry to the science of geology. These
                    contributions may be grouped under six headings: 
                  —A large per cent of the geological work that was carried on in the 
                                United States
                             after 1917 was financed by the petroleum industry. This work contributed in no
                            small way to the progress of the science.
                  —The oil industry has given considerable impulse to the study of geology in
                            colleges and universities.
                  —The industry helped to prove the usefulness of applied geology and in doing
                            so, made the science respectable among laymen.
                  —This in turn made it possible for the state and federal surveys to secure the
                            necessary appropriations from hard-headed legislators in order to continue their own
                            research.
                  —The industry helped develop to near perfection field methods for structural
                            mapping.
                  —The geology of thousands of square miles of the earth's surface in
                            the 
                                United States
                            , Mexico, Central and South America, the West Indies, Africa, and the Near East
                            has been studied by experienced geologists, paleontologists, and physicists and the results
                            have added materially to the stockpile of scientific knowledge.55
                  
               
            
            It seems obvious that not only has the geology profession been of great service to the oil industry,
                    but the industry in turn has been instrumental in developing the science. The two have become
                    interdependent, but members of the industry would be the first to admit that any balance sheet would
                    indicate a large credit figure in favor of the petroleum geologists.
            
               
                  53 Robert S. Ellison, "What the Oil Company Expects of the
                        Geologist," in Bulletin of the American Association of Petroleum
                            Geologists, VI (1922), 517.
               
                  54 Fuller, "Appalachian Oil Field," in Bulletin of the Geological Society of America, XXVIII, 627-628.
               
                  55 E. DeGolyer, "Debt of Geology to the Petroleum
                        Industry," in Bulletin of the American Association of Petroleum
                        Geologists, V, 396-397.
            
         
         
         
            Settlements in Northwestern Indiana, 1830-1860
            Leon M. Gordon II∗
            
            An old Indian trail that entered Indiana in what became northwestern 
                        St. Joseph County
                     and crossed the counties of 
                        La Porte
                    , Porter, and Lake to 
                        Chicago
                     was surveyed by federal officials in 1825 to form the western end of the 
                        United States
                     road from 
                        Detroit
                     to 
                        Chicago
                    . Originally it was developed for use as a military highway connecting forts at 
                        Chicago
                     and 
                        Detroit
                    . The principal motive for such action seems to have been implementation of the improved
                    transportation facilities afforded by the Erie Canal to the Great Lakes region. A few miles west of
                            
                  Bertrand, Michigan
               , the road crossed the state line and traversed the northwest
                    corner of 
                        St. Joseph County
                    , intersected 
                        Door Prairie
                     through 
                        La Porte
                     to 
                        Michigan City
                    , and followed the beach for sixty miles from there to 
                        Chicago
                    . In 1832 a stage line made the trip carrying passengers and mail from 
                        Detroit
                     to 
                  Niles, Michigan
               , in three days. Tri-weekly stage service was
                    instituted the following year.1
            
            By June, 1833, the mail route had reached 
                        Chicago
                     from Niles. Traveling on horseback once a week, the carrier took two days for the trip
                    and camped wherever darkness overtook him. A Frenchman who formerly carried the mail over the route
                    was rewarded by promotion to the position of driver of the stage, although his lack of skill caused
                    his passengers considerable concern.2 The route followed the sandy beach most of
                    the way.
            East of 
                        Michigan City
                     the road passed through a tract of land which more than one observer considered
                    unsurpassed 
                  
                     ∗ Leon M. Gordon II is a graduate assistant in history at
                            Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana.
                  
                     1 Charles Roll, Indiana, One Hundred and Fifty Years of
                                American Development (5 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1931), I, 438-439; Milo M. Quaife, 
                        
                                    Chicago
                                's Highways Old and New (
                                Chicago
                            , 1923), 39, 41. The Erie Canal was under construction from July 4, 1817, to
                            November 4, 1825. For a study of that movement and the effect of the canal on the economic
                            life of the Old Northwest see Archer B. Hulbert, The Great American Canals
                            (2 vols., 
                        Cleveland, Ohio
                     , 1904), II, passim; and A. L.
                            Kohlmeier, The Old Northwest as the Keystone of the Arch of American Federal
                                Union (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1938), passim.
                  
                     2 "The Autobiography of Flavel Bascom, 1833-1840,"
                            in William W. Sweet, The Congregationalists, Volume III of Religion on the American Frontier (3 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1939), 239; Charles F. Hoffman, A Winter in the West (2
                            vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1835), I, 228.
               
                     for beauty and fertility of soil. Springs and many lakes from a
                    quarter to a half mile in circumference with dry banks, sand bottoms, and clear water full of fish
                    were frequent along its course.3
            
            The first wagon road from 
                        Michigan City
                     to effect a junction with the 
                        Chicago
                     to 
                        Detroit
                     road was apparently cut in 1830, but six years later the condition of a bridgeless
                    swamp over which the trail passed caused a party of English travelers to return to their hotel while
                    repairs were made. After trees on the opposite side of the wet expanse had been cut, trimmed, and
                    fastened to planks under the water the plunging, rocking wagon crossed safely.4
            
            Regardless of their mode of transportation, most wayfarers were impressed by the novel character of
                    beach scenery, even if they considered it only a dull, monotonous stretch. Although the more compact
                    sand near the water's edge was best for wagons, it was not always possible to stay that
                    close because of danger from quicksand. Horses were particularly plagued by the shifting granules
                    and often bogged down. On cold nights, however, the situation was reversed; the beach became as hard
                    as any macadamized road. Frequently using sand hills which dotted the shore for protection when
                    forced to camp overnight, travelers compensated for the lack of combustible material along the shore
                    by snapping the hammer of a flintlock gun over tinder to start a fire. After such an open air
                    experience transients afterward vividly remembered the fantastic shapes assumed by white undulating
                    sand masses heaped one hundred to three hundred feet high.
            Their surfaces were covered with stunted pines, while nearer the beach dwarfish poplars, species of
                    bent grass, and a kind of thistle, and other vines predominated. All growths were stunted due to
                    exposure to salt spray. On the other hand, broad, hot expanses of sand, dazzling under the midday
                    sun and bare except for trailing roses, were often compared to desert wastes. In June, 1836, the
                    wreck of the "
                        Delaware
                    " which sailed between 
                  St. Joseph,
                            Michigan
               , and 
                        Chicago
                     was seen offshore, while other wrecks and huge tree trunks were 
                  
                     3 "Northern Indiana in 1829," Indiana
                                Magazine of History (
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1905-), III (1907), 85.
                  
                     4 A Monroe Aurand, Jr. (ed), Journal of Travels,
                                Adventures, and Remarks of Jerry Church (
                        Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
                     ,
                            1983), 27; Harriet Martineau, Society in America (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1837), I, 255-256.
               
                     frequent reminders of lake storms. Relatively desolate stretches
                    increased the mortality of such accidents.5
            
            As settlement increased in the vicinity of the lake, it became clear that a strip ten or twelve miles
                    wide around the southern shore was of very poor quality except where it was well timbered. Cattle
                    were often pastured on the extensive marsh lands back of the sand dunes, but on more than one
                    occasion some would mire in which case quick action was necessary to save the animal. By moonlight
                    the 
                        Michigan City
                     to 
                        Chicago
                     region seemed mostly hilly and barren in contrast to the rich soil east of the former
                        city.6
            
            Uncultivated, sandy areas near the beach contained few settlers and those were mostly innkeepers.
                    Because the ground was not much more elevated than 
                        Lake
                        Michigan
                    , scrubby pines and brushwood scattered over the plains and ever-moving sand hills
                    constituted valuable barriers against wind-blown sand and water. Irregular ridges, small swamps, and
                    scrubby timber reminded John Reynolds from 
                  Belleville, Illinois
               , of the
                    barren heath where Macbeth met the witches. Many years later in May, 1855, the railroad from 
                        Toledo
                     to 
                        Chicago
                     lay to the south of the range of dunes, and passengers were struck by the wider and
                    flatter fine sand beach just east of 
                        Chicago
                    .7
            
            Aside from the unusual physical surroundings of the beach road, another novelty which startled many
                    travelers was the fact that its location overlooking the expanse of Lake 
                  
                     5 The following citations indicate how foreign observers were
                            particularly impressed with the beach panoramas which for most of them were new experiences.
                            "Autobiography of Flavel Bascom," Sweet, The
                                Congregationalists, 239-240; Charles J. Latrobe, The Rambler in North
                                America (2 vols., 
                                New York
                            , 1835), II, 141, 143; George David, "A Trip from 
                                London
                             to 
                                Chicago
                            , 1833," in 
                        
                                    Michigan
                                 History Magazine (
                        Lansing, Michigan
                     ,
                            1917-), XVIII (1934), 64-65; Patrick Shirreff, A Tour Through North
                            America (Edinburgh, 1835), 222; Hoffman, A Winter in. the West, I,
                            231-232; Martineau, Society in America, I, 258.
                  
                     6 William F. Howat, A Standard History of 
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana, and the Calumet Region (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1915), I, 31; Herbert A. Kellar (ed.), Solon Robinson, Pioneer
                                and Agriculturist (2 vols., 
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1936), I, 60. These are volumes XXI and XXII of the Indiana Historical Collections (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1916-). "Diaries of James D. Davidson (1836) and Greenlee Davidson
                            (1857) during Visits to Indiana," contributed by Herbert A. Kellar, Indiana Magazine of History, XXIV (1928), 136.
                  
                     7 Rev. James L. Scott, A Journal of a Missionary
                            Tour (
                        Providence, Rhode Island
                     , 1843), 190-191; John Reynolds, Sketches of the Country (
                        Belleville, Illinois
                     ,
                            1854), 144-145; William Ferguson, America by River and Rail (
                                London
                            , 1856), 361-362; Isabella Trotter, First Impressions of the New
                                World (
                                London
                            , 1859), 236-237.
               
                    
                    
                        Michigan
                     allowed an excellent view of the aurora borealis in the days before factory smoke
                    obscured the view. On a September evening in 1833, for example, blood red lightning that shot
                    intermittently from cloud masses over the lake was suddenly paled by a broad luminous arch which
                    rose skyward from the north. Quivering and shifting perpendicular rays trailed from it, swinging
                    back and forth in brilliant color combinations. The striking panorama was reflected in the calm,
                    liquid mirror of the lake until a bursting thunderstorm blotted out the magnificent spectacle. When
                    the skies cleared again, only a few fading rays remained. At other times the "resplendent
                    fires" of the aurora borealis contrasted strikingly with the livid glare from the burning
                    Kankakee marshes to the south.8
            
            Regardless of how intriguing and unusual travel along the beach might have been, shelter was a
                    serious problem. Often, of course, a sand bed was the best to be had. At the ferryhouse across the
                    Calumet River about twelve miles from 
                        Chicago
                     a French trader named Bayeaux and his Indian wife kept an inn that was a welcome haven
                    for tired travelers despite many Indian relatives hanging around the place. In 1831 one party from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     found them without provisions, however, and one hungry member of the group shot a
                    blackbird which the squaw cooked and served with cranberries and a little coffee. Later the
                    proprietors were able to give the same band better food and a little whisky. Their accommodations,
                    however, left much to be desired, and members of at least one caravan found their fare too
                    unpalatable for consumption. Only because of anticipation of better food in 
                        Chicago
                     could they resign themselves to a wretched breakfast.9
            
            Crossing the river itself was not without danger, and it was rather common for pack animals to drown
                    trying to ford the stream. In the spring of 1835 the small ferryhouse on the north side of the river
                    was still functioning, but two years later travelers crossed with pleasure the Long Pole Bridge,
                        
                  
                     8 Latrobe, The Rambler in North America, II,
                            142-143; Hoffman, A Winter in the West, I, 282; Shirreff, A
                                Tour Through North America, 222.
                  
                     9 Aurand, Journal of Travels, 26-28; Bessie L.
                            Pierce, As Others See 
                                    Chicago
                                
                      (
                                Chicago
                            , 1933), 41; "Autobiography of Flavel Bascom," Sweet, The Congregationalists, 240; David, "A Trip from 
                                London
                             to 
                                Chicago
                            , 1833," 
                        
                                    Michigan
                                 History Magazine, XVIII, 65.
               
                     sixty-four rods long and made of logs covered with poles, which
                    had been thrown across the river in 1836. By the forties a toll bridge where settlers could get food
                    before moving on to 
                        Chicago
                     was a welcome sight. By 1853 the stagehouse on the north side of the Calumet River a
                    half mile from its fork at Hegewisch supplied relay teams for the rest of the journey.10
            
            Baillytown, on the Calumet about five miles from the mouth of Fort Creek, was the home of Joseph
                    Bailly, a French trader, who built the first house in 
                        Lake County
                     there in 1822. With its oak-paneled living room, hand-wrought hardware, a bedroom with
                    wild cherry paneling and wallpaper reportedly imported from 
                        England
                    , the house was a showplace in the wilderness. A spacious lawn separated it from the
                    river, and in the rear of the house was the race track where Bailly trained his blooded horses.
                    About 1834 the proprietor made a feeble attempt to plat a town, but no lots were ever bought by
                    white settlers, and it never became more than a trading post and Indian settlement. A third stopping
                    place on the Calumet after 1832 was the Bennett tavern on 
                        Lake
                        Michigan
                     near the mouth of the river at the site of the paper town of Indiana City.11
            
            Additional shelters along the beach road were also made use of by weary travelers. A party of four,
                    including the novelist Charles Latrobe, reached two huts near 
                        Chicago
                     in the early morning, but no food was available except bread, whisky, and a few
                    potatoes. Every square foot of flooring in both huts was covered with transients. An English farmer,
                    Patrick Shirreff, led another group about the same time who were unable to reach 
                        Chicago
                     before nightfall and chased two sleeping Indian girls and a boy from a small hovel.
                    After the natives' hasty departure, Shirreff noted that his companions were soon sleeping
                    peacefully after a meal of bread and whisky in what was inferior to the bed of an East Lothian
                        pig.12
            
            
               
                  10 Howat, History of 
                                Lake County
                            
                  , I, 31-32; Hoffman, A Winter in the West, I, 236; J.
                        William Lester, "Pioneer Stories of the Calumet," Indiana
                            Magazine of History, XVIII (1922), 167.
               
                  11
                        The Calumet Region Historical Guide (n.p., 1939), 139; Howat, History of 
                                Lake County
                            
                  , I, 32, 34.
               
                  12 Latrobe, The Rambler in North America, II, 144;
                        Shirreff, A Trip Through North America, 223-224.
            
            
            In June, 1836, Harriet Martineau's group of English travelers heading west from 
                        Michigan City
                     stopped at a log house decorated with green boughs and located on a sand bank. It
                    appeared perfectly clean below, and except for the absence of milk the supper was good. At bedtime,
                    however, the ladies found the loft indescribably filthy. This lodging was apparently the Beach
                    House, located twenty miles from 
                        Michigan City
                    , which an emigrant who stopped there the next November described as a log cabin close
                    to the lake shore and nine miles from any other habitation. Twenty-three were lodged in the
                    gentlemen's room, in which three-tiered beds covered the floor like steamboat berths. For
                    supper and lodging the proprietor charged each guest fifty cents.13
            
            Twenty or thirty miles from 
                        Chicago
                     a rude pine cabin in a brake of stunted evergreens about two hundred yards from the
                    water afforded a pleasant interlude for Charles Hoffman, a New Yorker, traveling from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     through the Midwest in December, 1833. After prolonged conversation with two
                    westerners, he slept with others on the floor, while the former occupied wooden bunks which were
                    swung down from the ceiling. By the end of that year other shelters which made the most of pioneer
                    conditions included Ward's Tavern, five miles west of 
                        Michigan City
                    ; one on Sand Creek at the site of City West; one at Baillytown; further west Butler
                    Tavern where the 
                        Chicago
                    -
                        Detroit
                     road crossed the Calumet River; the Old Maids' Tavern just east of where the
                    trail crossed Willow Creek; and another one mile west of the present Dune Park station.14
            
            Although reports vary, the Gibson Tavern and barns at the present site of Froebel High School in Gary
                    were probably built in 1837 or 1838. The proprietor had come from 
                  Columbus, Ohio
               , in 1835. A
                    two-story, hewn-log house located near Gibson Run was built on a forty-acre tract. It faced east on
                    present 
                        Madison
                     Avenue and served as a rest stop for 
                        Detroit
                     to 
                        Chicago
                     stage drivers until torn down in the late 1860's. Another tavern kept by a Mr.
                    Pierce was south of Lake 
                  
                     13 Martineau, Society in America, I, 257-258; John
                            Wentworth to his sister, 
                                Chicago
                            , November 9, 1836, 
                                Chicago
                             Historical Society News Review (
                                Chicago
                            , 1942-), II (1943), 3.
                  
                     14 Hoffman, A Winter in the West, I, 233-235; History of 
                                    Lake County
                                
                      (2 vols., Gary, Indiana, 1929), I, 84-86. These are volumes X and XI
                            of the 
                                Lake County
                             Historical Association Publications.
               
                     Station (East Gary) between Wood's mills and 
                        Centerville
                     (
                        Merrillville
                    ).15
            
            Variations of the beach route were in use by 1837. Going from 
                        Chicago
                     to 
                        Porter County
                    , for example, it was possible to ferry across the Calumet at the site of 
                        Hammond
                     and go to 
                        Michigan City
                     by way of Baillytown between the Grand and Little Calumet rivers.
                    Another route ran south of the Little Calumet, crossed the pole bridge, and after passing through
                    Liverpool followed the high sand ridge to the present sites of Highland and Munster.16
            
            Given a usable beach road from 
                        Michigan City
                     to 
                        Chicago
                    , settlers were quick to see the potential advantages of connecting the Calumet River,
                    which flowed into 
                        Lake
                        Michigan
                     about one and a half miles west of the Indiana line, with the Kankakee River. By
                    February, 1835, a scheme was being publicized to link the two by a canal not to exceed twenty-five
                    miles in length. Cedar Lake, through which it would pass, was praised for the fine mill sites on its
                    outlet and for the abundance of bog iron ore in the vicinity. The Calumet's main channel
                    was considered navigable for steamboats, and enthusiasts felt another usable mouth could easily be
                    made twelve miles west of 
                        Michigan City
                    .17
            
            As for the Kankakee itself, impressions of its utility were varied. An unnamed traveler in 1829
                    observed that the river flowed through a winding valley four to eleven miles wide. In summer the
                    stream formed a wide swamp which was impassable in most places for man or beast. The river appeared
                    navigable, however, at least part of the year for thirty or forty miles within Indiana, but the land
                    through which it passed was exceedingly poor.18
            
            Two years later, Amasa C. Washburn, a native of 
                        Vermont
                    , and three others traveled almost the river's entire length by canoe. Full of
                    reptiles and decayed vegetable matter, the river alternated between narrow, tortuous channels and
                    more pleasant lakes, of which English was the largest and where wind-driven waves nearly swamped the
                    boat. Only a few dry stretches broke the marshy, wet prairies through 
                  
                     15 Lester, "Pioneer Stories of the Calumet," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 169-170, 172.
                  
                     16 Howat, History of 
                                    Lake County
                                
                     , I, 32-33.
                  
                     17 Kellar, Solon Robinson, I, 59-60.
                  
                     18 "Northern Indiana in 1829," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, III, 85-86.
               
                     which the river coursed. At times the current was so sluggish as
                    to be scarcely perceptible; sometimes rapids made further progress extremely hazardous. The junction
                    in 
                        Illinois
                     with the Des Plaines River was reached in nine days.19
            
            Four years later the pen of unwarranted enthusiasm characterized the Kankakee as more like a lake
                    than a river and navigable for steamboats drawing three feet at all seasons. Solon Robinson of 
                        Lake County
                     admitted, however, that within Indiana it had no banks and little current. Bordered
                    with marsh and timber, the river passed only one or two places with dry land on both sides over
                    which a road could cross.20
            
            Settlers from 
                        Jennings County
                     in the winter of 1835 found the Kankakee marsh covered with ice across which they tried
                    unsuccessfully to force their oxen. Luckily, they found logs which had been collected to build a
                    cabin usable for fire material. That blaze and the wagon cover used as a tent protected them from
                    the unimpeded blast which swept over the prairie. Next day the caravan went ten miles out of their
                    way to the miserable hut of a Frenchman and his half-breed family with whom they stayed two days and
                    nights. The Kankakee was finally crossed by covering the ice with hay which froze into it and thus
                    provided greater traction.21
            
            Extreme disparagement of the river and the land it drained was expressed by Jerry Smith, a government
                    surveyor, in 1837 when he applied to the region all the stories he had heard about Hades. The head
                    of English Lake and the mouth of Yellow River particularly offended him, but eight years later the
                    calmer head of Henry Ward Beecher compared the river's marshes and mud to the Pontine
                    Marshes in 
                        Italy
                    . As viewed from the Kankakee bridge, water seemed to lie a foot or two deep for
                    hundreds of yards on each side of the channel and flowed around strong reedy grass five or six feet
                    high within which thousands of small birds and wild ducks disported themselves.22
            
            As in the case of the 
                        Michigan
                     Road, it would be a mistake 
                  
                     19 "Canoeing on the Kankakee in 1831," Yearbook of the Society of Indiana Pioneers, 1944 (n.p., n.d.), 5-13.
                  
                     20 Kellar, Solon Robinson, I, 69, 61.
                  
                     21 Rev. T. H. Ball, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana, from 1834 to 1871 (
                                Chicago
                            , 1873), 26-28.
                  
                     22 Daniel McDonald, Removal of the Pottawattomie Indians
                                from Northern Indiana (
                                Plymouth
                            , Indiana, 1899), 54-55; The Western Farmer and Gardener (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1845-1848), I, 854.
               
                     to assign full credit to the road from 
                        Detroit
                     to 
                        Chicago
                     for the development of the region which it served. Nevertheless, simultaneously with
                    the heavy use of the latter road, settlers were moving into northwestern Indiana from southern
                    Indiana, 
                  Ohio, New
                    England
               , the Middle Atlantic States, and to a less extent from the South. In
                    common with all population movements, the first concern of the emigrants was the condition of roads
                    they had to traverse and—once they were located—the problems of travel between
                    settlements. Crude roads made over Indian trails were the usual paths, but spring thaws filled every
                    slough on them with water. Coming from the south to Pleasant Grove near the present site of 
                        Crown Point
                     in 1835, one emigrant party, for example, plunged through heavy mud and mire that
                    threatened to upset their wagon.23 What now corresponds to the Lincoln Highway,
                    formerly a branch of the Old Sauk Trail, was so bad in the winter of 1835-1836 that it mired the
                    oxen of a party headed toward present Merrillville.24
            
            Streams and rivers were especially difficult to cross, and the importance of the Calumet ferry in
                    that respect has been indicated above. In 1838 two bridges were built across Deep
                    River because many horses had been lost in the mire and quicksand while attempting to
                    ford the stream. A more novel means of transportation were bobsleds used in the forties around
                    present 
                        Lowell
                     when wagons were an almost unknown convenience.25
            
            Having reached their new homes, emigrants were still faced with dangerous trips over prairie wastes
                    to markets and mills. In April, 1835, along a ten-mile stretch between Hickory Point and Pleasant
                    Grove in 
                        Lake County
                    , searchers found a body at the base of a tree around which the victim had worn a
                    furrowed rut in an attempt to keep from freezing. During the winter of 1838-1839, night caught a
                    lone settler on Twenty 
                        Mile Prairie
                     between 
                        Michigan City
                     and Cedar Lake. Because of heavy clouds, he missed the road in an isolated 
                  
                     23
                            Report of the Historical Secretary of the Old Settler and Historical
                                Association of 
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana, and Papers (
                                Crown Point
                            , Indiana, 1911), 37-38.
                  
                     24 Lester, "Pioneer Stories of the Calumet," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 347-348.
                  
                     25 Howat, History of 
                                    Lake County
                                
                     , I, 56; Historical Records of the 
                                    Lake County
                                 Old Settler and Historical Association of 
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana, 1924 (n.p., n.d.), 9.
               
                     section. Although the fleeting glimpse of a star kept him going
                    in the right direction, he spent the night standing between his two horses, a bolt of satinet thrown
                    over them all to share each other's warmth.26
            
            Other men caught under similar conditions were not so fortunate. Two returning from the
                            
                  Danville, Illinois
               , land office in December, 1836, bucked a piercing gale that
                    turned the snow-covered prairie into a sheet of ice. As the cold grew more intense, one of the
                    horses was killed, its opened carcass affording some protection for the men's arms and
                    legs. By morning, however, one had died and his companion's toes and fingers were later
                    amputated. Not long afterwards between Parish Grove and Sumner's Grove a man caught in a
                    blizzard unsuccessfully used his horse for the same purpose.27
            
            Unusual scenery on the prairies intrigued most observers unfamiliar with such country as much as did
                    that along the beach road. Over two hundred fifty square miles of undulating grasslands lay before
                    them, broken only by isolated groves of softwood trees in the lowlands and varieties of oak on
                    higher ground in barrens or oak openings. Twelve to eighteen inches of dry black vegetable matter
                    over one or two feet of loose clay loam and a hardpan of limestone and pebbly clay promised great
                    soil fertility. The wood-encircled, gently rolling land still impressed its viewers as late as 1859,
                    when Professor Caleb Mills of 
                        Wabash
                     College said, referring to 
                        Lake Prairie
                    , "I have been thirty years in the west, and have been in every county in the
                    State, and never but once have I seen so beautiful a view."28
            
            Only the previous year the 
                        Grand Prairie
                     near Merrill-ville looked like the Garden of Eden to a new arrival—a flower
                    garden with blooms of every hue accentuated by phlox and the tall resin weed. Large herds of deer,
                    an occasional wolf, blue racers and other snakes, prairie fowl, geese, sand hill cranes, fish, and
                    small fur-bearing animals were all found 
                  
                     26 Howat, History of 
                                    Lake County
                                
                     , I, 78-79; Ball, History of 
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana, from 1834, to 1872, pp. 262-263.
                  
                     27 John Ade, Newton County, Indiana, from 1853 to
                            1911 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1911), 68-71; Elmore Barce and Robert A. Swan, History of 
                                    Benton County
                                , Indiana (3 vols., Fowler, Indiana, 1930), I, 133.
                  
                     28 J. Gould, "Wanderings in the West in 1839," The 
                                    New England
                                 Farmer and Horticultural Register (
                                Boston
                            , 1822-1913), XVIII (1839-1840), 436; T. H. Ball, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana, 1884 (
                                Crown Point
                            , Indiana, 1884), 104.
               
                     in large numbers, not only in northwestern Indiana but
                    throughout the prairie country. In addition small sloughs were thick with varieties of birds and
                    croaking frogs. Over a period of years, however, grazing cattle destroyed the immense natural flower
                        beds.29
            
            Complicating the paradoxical beauty and danger of the prairies was the ever-present hazard from
                    fires. In the vicinity of 
                        Logansport
                     and other grassland areas fires were generally pictured as the greatest single danger,
                    although at least one voice in the wilderness was raised to protest against foolish exaggeration of
                    their threat. The usual description told of a glare that increased along the horizon until the fiery
                    redness, sweeping before dark cloud masses and accompanied by a roaring noise like a hurricane,
                    clothed the landscape in "boiling, churning flames." The sea of blue stem grass
                    and other combustible material fed one blaze for twenty-five miles in less than two hours, but in
                    such cases men and boys quickly organized fire-fighting squads which by using a backfire generally
                    brought blazes under control before much damage was done.30
            
            Solon Robinson in December, 1839, decried claims of casualties and heavy damage from prairie fires
                    and assigned such tales to "the great humbug family." He claimed that unless a
                    wind were blowing with great fury, fires were easily stamped and beaten out, although he did admit
                    that the usual fire descriptions were more valid in marsh country where movements of men and animals
                    were hindered.31
            
            Having gotten their land under cultivation, settlers were faced with the difficult problem of
                    transporting surplus produce to distant markets at 
                  Chicago, Michigan City, Fort Wayne
               , and 
                  St.
                            Joseph, Michigan
               . To haul grain
                    from Elk-hart County to 
                        Chicago
                    , for example, took about eight days, and usually five to ten teams composed a caravan.
                    Each member paid his own stabling and lodging expenses and a dollar to a dollar and forty cents a
                    day for his teamster and wagon, depending on the condition of the roads and the weather. Farmers
                    often had to carry their load bag by bag over mudholes 
                  
                     29 Ade, History of 
                                    Newton County
                                
                     , 41; George Mitten (ed.), Memories of Union Township, 
                                    Benton County
                                , Indiana (Fowler, Indiana, 1931), 66-67; Louis H. Hamilton and William
                            Darroch, A Standard History of 
                                    Jasper
                                 and 
                                    Newton Counties
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1916), I, 92-93; History of 
                                    Lake County
                                
                     , I, 73-74.
                  
                     30
                            
                                Hamilton
                             and Darroch, History of 
                                    Jasper
                                 and 
                                    Newton Counties
                                
                     , I, 328-329; Barce and Swan, History of 
                                    Benton County
                                
                     , I, 129-132; Mitten, Memories of Union Township, 11.
                  
                     31 Kellar, Solon Robinson, I, 118-119.
               
                     through which the horses could not pull the wagons. In the
                    thirties after a forty-mile haul from West Creek to 
                        Chicago
                    , settlers sometimes received less than fifty cents a bushel for wheat. Under such
                    conditions the margin of profit was usually slight.32
            
            In the fall of 1838, for example, three men started for 
                        Chicago
                     from Eagle Creek in 
                        Lake County
                     with thirty bushels of wheat in wagons pulled by seven yoke of oxen. Near Cedar Lake
                    they lost two nights and a day hunting for their animals, and at the site of Dyer had to pay five
                    dollars for damages the oxen had done to the pumpkins in the yard. Northwest of Dyer the wagons got
                    mired to the axeltrees in a swamp that supposedly was a short cut, but the caravan lost a full day
                    carrying the bags of grain eighty rods through tall grass and waist-deep water. On the return trip,
                    the oxen destroyed a quantity of corn and cabbages. For nine days' work the expenses
                    exceeded receipts.33
            
            Those who came from Southeast Grove in 
                        Lake County
                     often broke the four-day round trip to 
                        Chicago
                     at the Half Way House on Ridge Road near Ross. Even by mid-century when the 
                        Michigan
                     Central and 
                        Michigan
                     Southern railroads established depots at 
                        Hobart
                    , Ross, and Lake Station, settlers from southern and central 
                        Lake County
                     had to haul produce over abominable roads to reach them.34
            
            In 1858 a wagon train loaded with shelled corn en route to 
                  Kankakee, Illinois
               , from 
                        Morocco
                     in 
                        Newton County
                     nearly mired in thawing roads. Above the Kankakee dam at Aroma (
                        Illinois
                    ) the load had to be carried across by hand. It was sold for twenty-four cents a bushel,
                    and three days were required for the round trip.35
            
            Besides grain and cattle, some settlers depended on dairying for a living, but in April, 1841, the
                    demand in 
                        Lake County
                     was so slight that receipts hardly paid the expense of hiring help. With butter selling
                    for ten cents a pound and poor quality eggs for six cents a dozen some producers fed 
                  
                     32 Anthony Deahl, A Twentieth Century History and
                                Biographical Record of 
                                    Elkhart County
                                , Indiana (
                                Chicago
                            , 1905), 218-219; Ball, History of 
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana, 1884, p. 92; Sam B. Woods, The First Hundred
                                Years of 
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana (n.p., 1938), 25.
                  
                     33
                            
                                Crown Point
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                 Star, Centennial Edition, August 17, 1934.
                  
                     34
                            Historical Records of the 
                                    Lake County
                                 Old Settler and Historical Association, 10; Lester, "Pioneer
                            Stories of the Calumet," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 355; 
                                Crown Point
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                 Star, August 17, 1934.
                  
                     35 Ade, History of 
                                    Newton County
                                
                     , 105-106.
               
                     milk to their calves and Berkshire pigs rather than market
                        it.36
            
            Other settlers turned to hog raising to supplement their income, and an observer from 
                        New York
                     in 1839 noted that a "miserable breed, long-nosed, long-legged
                    animals" was heavily relied upon. The animals foraged on grass and mast till autumn, then
                    were fattened on corn. Having gained an average of one hundred fifty pounds, they were driven to 
                        Chicago
                     and other packing centers to be sold for three to four dollars a hundredweight. Wild
                    hogs were not considered worth catching.37
            
            Normal difficulties associated with establishing a home in comparative wilderness areas were
                    aggravated by periodic outbreaks of ague and fever. Eight of a family of thirteen were prostrated
                    within six weeks after their arrival at West Creek in 
                        Lake County
                     from 
                        New York
                     in the early forties, and their discomfiture was matched by many others. About the
                    middle of August when the resin flower and other yellow plants bloomed settlers knew they could
                    expect the ague. Low level districts in contrast to high rolling areas were particularly susceptible
                    to influenza-like diseases, but pulmonary disorders were relatively uncommon. Quinine, although it
                    had to be brought from 
                        Michigan City
                     or 
                        Chicago
                     and was very scarce, remained the standard remedy.38
            
            As one of the chief publicists of northern Indiana, Solon Robinson deprecated unhealthy conditions
                    and cited his own physical improvement as an expected occurrence. Accidents in addition to disease
                    were an ever-present danger and were often treated in a novel manner. One young child in a caravan
                    headed for the site of present 
                  Galesburg, Illinois
               , cut off two toes, whereupon his mother
                    bound his foot with loaf sugar and catnip, wet it thoroughly with paregoric, and kept it damp with
                        alcohol.39 Apparently, no ill effects resulted.
            
               
                  36 Harriet Palmer to her sister, 
                            Lake County
                        , April 24, 1841, 
                            Crown Point
                        , Indiana, 
                     
                                Lake County
                             Star, August 17, 1934.
               
                  37 Gould, "Wanderings in the West in 1839," The 
                                New England
                             Farmer and Horticultural Register, XIX (1840-1841), 5.
               
                  38
                        Ibid., 5; Ball, History of 
                                Lake County
                            , Indiana, 1884, p. 89; 
                            Hamilton
                         and Darroch, History of 
                                Jasper
                             and 
                                Newton Counties
                            
                  , I, 94-95; History of 
                                Lake County
                            
                  , I, 115, 132. Home remedies of course were of every description. A hardy
                        farmer near Hebron, for example, dosed himself with three live bedbugs inserted under the skin
                        of a raisin.
               
                  39 Kellar, Solon Robinson, I, 54; "The Diary of Jerusha Loomis
                        Farnham," in Log City Days (
                     Galesburg, Illinois
                  ,
                        1937), 33.
            
            
            Population movements into northwestern Indiana lagged considerably behind those into north central
                    Indiana for every counting period between 1830 and 1860. Only scattered notice of the origins of 
                        Lake County
                     settlers is found in contemporary accounts, and a definitive study must be based on an
                    analysis of the census returns. Most of the first-hand comments emphasized the role of Yankee
                    settlers there and throughout northern Indiana. 
                        Lake County
                    's leading protagonist near the end of 1834 observed that the majority of its
                    settlers were Yankees; two months later he listed six 
                        New England
                     States, 
                  New York, Pennsylvania, Ohio, Virginia
               , and to a lesser degree, other southern states as
                    the source of the county's population. Three years later, a member of an emigrant train
                    which passed through the county recorded that it was settled mostly by natives of 
                        Vermont
                    . There is also an indication that Swedes were in the vicinity of Baillytown in the fall
                    of 1851.40
            
            Except for official figures from census returns, information on the origin of the people or their
                    increase is very scarce. James Hill from 
                        Decatur County
                     on an exploring trip in February, 1834, claimed that he found only one family within
                    the bounds of 
                        Lake County
                     located near Deep River southwest of present Hobart. Solon
                    Robinson did not arrive near what became 
                        Crown Point
                     till November, but slightly less than a year later the 
                        La Porte
                     tax collector visited the settlement. In July, Robinson was instrumental in drawing up
                    the constitution of the Squatters' Union which had 476 signatures.41
            
            In March, 1836, he was appointed postmaster at the Lake Court House station, and by the end of 1837
                    postoffice receipts amounted to over fifty-seven dollars a quarter. Nevertheless, there were
                    "a few scattered settlers" near Merrillville 
                  
                     40 "The Diary of Jerusha Loomis Farnham," in Log City Days, 33; Kellar, Solon Robinson, I, 56, 61-62;
                            Frances Howe to Rose Howe, Baillytown, October 4, 1861, MS in Frances Howe Papers, Indiana
                            Division, Indiana State Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , Indiana. In a study of emigration from 
                                New England
                             Louise K. Mathews concluded the greatest influx into the three tiers of Indiana
                            counties came between 1830 and 1837. She pointed out isolated instances of compact groups
                            such as the 
                                New Hampshire
                             settlement on 
                                Lake Prairie
                             in 
                                Lake County
                             which dated from 1855 and was perpetuated in the town of 
                                Lowell
                            . The Expansion of 
                                    New England
                                
                      (
                                Boston
                            , 1909), 196-206, et passim. See also 
                                Virginia
                                Lowell
                             Mauck, Population Movements in Northern Indiana Before 1850 (M.A. Thesis,
                            Indiana University, 
                                Bloomington
                            , Indiana, 1948).
                  
                     41 Howat, History of 
                                    Lake County
                                
                     , I, 34. Robinson has been called the Squatter King because of his
                            championship of landless emigrants to northwestern Indiana. Ball, History of 
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana, 1834-1872, pp. 34, 39-48.
               
                     in the winter of 1835-1836. Not until January, 1837, was the
                    county organized.42
            
            Simultaneously with the laying of the foundation for solid growth at 
                        Crown Point
                     and other centers in 
                        Lake County
                    , two paper towns excited popular enthusiasm for awhile only to die in the panic of
                    1837. Reference has been made above to the Bennett Tavern at the site of Indiana City where lots
                    were never sold. Two settlers at Deep River in 1835 reflected the expectations
                    then held for Liverpool, and bought lots there for two hundred fifty dollars apiece. Of the total
                    tax levy in 1836, which amounted to $2,002.77, "lots in Liverpool"
                    accounted for $304.06. In the main, however, sound development prevailed, and by 1840 the
                    county census taken by Lewis Warriner disclosed a total population of 1,468.43
            
            
               
                        Crown Point
                     contained about ninety people at the time, including one doctor, one lawyer, and three
                    merchants. As time passed the population in the county and its seat of justice continued to
                    increase, though at less than half the rate of 
                        LaPorte
                     and 
                        St. Joseph counties
                     to the east. Even in 1843 only eight houses and a school building had been built
                    between the square in 
                        Crown Point
                     and the far side of Southeast Grove where seven more families lived. Thoughtful
                    settlers complained that few of the county districts had made adequate provisions for schools. North
                    of the county seat Ross, Hobart, and Tolleston received their major impetus from the coming of
                    railroads just after mid-century. By 1860 the county's population had reached 9,145.44
            
            
               
                        Porter County
                     was organized on January 28, 1836, and increased in population from 2,162 to 10,313
                    between 1840 and 1860. Reports on 
                        Valparaiso
                    , its county seat, are conflicting. A native of 
                        Connecticut
                     visited the site in August 1837, and stopped at an isolated farm which consisted of six
                    lots of eighty acres each surrounded by marsh and located six miles east of the town. As a settler
                    remembered the 
                  
                     42 Howat, History of 
                                    Lake County
                                
                     , I, 43; Laws of Indiana, General, 1836-1837, pp.
                            55-56; Lester, "Pioneer Stories of the Calumet," Indiana
                                Magazine of History, XVIII, 349.
                  
                     43 Ball, History of 
                                    Lake County
                                , Indiana, 1834-1872, pp. 66, 87; Lester, "Pioneer Stories of
                            the Calumet," Indiana Magazine of History, XVIII, 171; 
                                Crown Point
                            , Indiana, 
                        
                                    Lake County
                                 Star, August 17, 1934.
                  
                     44
                            Eleventh Census of the 
                                    United States
                                , 1890, Population, I, 18; C. W. Cady, The Indiana Annual
                                Register, 1846 (
                                Indianapolis
                            , 1846), 120.
               
                     town's condition in 1839, however, it was covered with
                    hazel brush and inhabited by a lone recluse.45
            
            
               
                        Valparaiso
                     was dismissed as a "straggling village" in 1850, but the General
                    Assembly incorporated it the following February. On September 16, 1858, when the Methodist state
                    conference was held there, citizens of the town had to meet those who attended at Westville in
                    western 
                        La Porte County
                     which was the nearest station of the 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Chicago
                     Railroad. A year later the Male and Female College at 
                        Valparaiso
                     was founded and over eleven thousand dollars subscribed for its support.46
            
            
               
                        Lake
                     and 
                        Porter
                     counties were among the slowest of the important ones today to develop from 1830 to
                    1860, not primarily due to their undesirable characteristics, but because their location in the
                    northwestern corner of the state made them not readily accessible. Without the beach road, there
                    would have been no major route into the area during the pioneer period. The Kankakee swamps
                    effectively blocked emigration from the south and the large majority of home-seekers from the east
                    stopped in 
                        Allen County
                     or on the fertile prairies of 
                        St. Joseph
                     and 
                        La Porte
                     counties.
            Ultimately, however, the geographical position of 
                        Lake
                     and 
                        Porter
                     counties proved a definite asset in their growth because the nascent settlement of 
                        Chicago
                     in the early thirties grew with such rapidity that it benefited surrounding areas.
                    Those who traveled the beach road often found what they were seeking before reaching 
                        Chicago
                    . That fact and the road's location also largely explain why the northern
                    sections of the two counties developed first. Finally, all the extreme northwestern area of Indiana
                    was greatly boosted by the tireless publicity efforts of Solon Robinson, who wrote extensively in
                    publications like the 
                  Albany, New York
               , Cultivator.
            
            Such periodicals were widely read by farmers and others interested in agriculture who composed a
                    large percentage of the emigrants to northern Indiana. The subsequent history of the Calumet region
                    particularly has proved the foresight of men like Robinson and the early travelers who saw more in
                    the area than a succession of sand hills.
            
               
                  45
                        Laws of Indiana, Local, 1835-1836, pp. 51-52; Eleventh Census of
                            the 
                                United States
                            , 1890, Population, I, 18; Winifred Lovering Hol-man, "Diary of
                        the Rev. James-Hanmer Francis, 1837-1838," 
                            Ohio
                         State Archaeological and Historical Society Quarterly
                                (
                     Columbus, Ohio
                  , 1887-), LI (1942), 50.
               
                  46 John L. Smith, Indiana Methodism (
                            Valparaiso
                        , Indiana, 1892), 477, 256-262.
            
         
         
         
            Documents
            Letters of William H. Harrison to Thomas Worthington, 1799-1813
            Edited by John D. Barnhart∗
            
            Miss Caroline Dunn of the William Henry Smith Memorial Library called to my attention a group of
                    recently acquired letters which William Henry Harrison wrote to Thomas Worthington, one of the
                    leaders in the Northwest Territory, who became 
                        United States
                     Senator and Governor of 
                        Ohio
                    . Miss Dunn supervised the transcription from the originals which are in the William
                    Henry Smith Memorial Library of the Indiana Historical Society at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . This correspondence does not shatter any cherished traditions, but illustrates and
                    clarifies minor points of his career, such as the growing factionalism in the territory and the
                    development of the statehood movement. A very small but interesting item is the first letter which
                    introduced Michael Baldwin to Worthington. Several items about the controversy over statehood for 
                        Ohio
                     are mentioned in the early letters.
            Since Harrison wrote to Worthington about things they had in common, there is less about Indiana
                    Territory than might be assumed. There are, however, several items of interest about Indiana in the
                    letters. The passage of the act creating the new territory and the Land Act of 1800 are mentioned in
                    the letter of April 25, 1800. His statement of May 2, 1800, that he would not accept the
                    governorship is a little surprising but it is followed by the explanation of July 13 that his
                    friends had induced him to change his mind. Harrison's support of slavery in Indiana is
                    clearly set forth in the letter of October 26, 1803. Altogether there is evidence that the Governor
                    identified himself with his territory, strove to advance its interests as he understood them, and
                    recognized distinctly what individuals were opposed to his policies.
            Harrison may not have been as self-seeking as has been suggested. On November 20, 1812, he was
                    apparently unconcerned about a high military appointment. But this letter should be read in the
                    light of a previously published communication of July 14 (Esarey, Messages and Letters
                        of William 
                     
                        ∗ John D. Barnhart is chairman of the department of
                                history at Indiana University, 
                                    Bloomington
                                , Indiana, and editor of the Indiana Magazine of
                            History.
                     
                  
                         Henry Harrison, II, 73-74). The present letter may be
                    more of a revelation of his intense disappointment at not being appointed earlier than a statement
                    of lack of interest.
            Harrison disavowed responsibility for the massacre at the River Raisin in the letter of January 31,
                    1813. The later letters also throw some light on Harrison's campaign of 1813.
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Cleves. North Bend
                           
                                    10th July 1799.
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        This will be handed you by Mr Baldwin1 a young gentleman who
                                    visited your county with some expectation of fixing himself there in the practice of
                                    the law, to which profession he has been regularly bread. Any advice &
                                    assistance which you may please to give Mr Baldwin I shall gratefully acknowledge as
                                    I feel myself much interested in his welfare—he is the brother of the Mr
                                    Baldwin who had been so many years a member of Congress & whose character
                                    you are no doubt acquainted with—
                        Mrs Harrison & myself are pleasing ourselves with the hope of seeing Mrs
                                    Worthington at the ensuing session of the legislature2—you can not have forgot your promise on this subject i e that if
                                    you did bring her with you she would give us the happiness of taking up her abode at
                                    our house—I hope you have too good an opinion of me to suppose that I
                                    would make this invitation for forms sake—therefore I
                                    shall take no denial but what may arise from inconvenience to your selves.
                        
                                    in great haste I am Dr Sir your friend &c
                                    Willm H Harrison
                                
                        Colo Worthington Colo Thomas Worthington M1 Baldwin Esqr
                                Chilachothe
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  1 Michael Baldwin was a brilliant young lawyer from 
                            Connecticut
                         who became closely associated with Worthington. Henry Howe, Historical
                            Collections of 
                                Ohio
                            
                   (2 vols., 
                            Cincinnati
                        , 1902), II, 517-518.
               
                  2 The first session of the General Assembly was held at
                                
                     Cincinnati, Ohio
                  , from September 16 to December 19, 1799. Theodore C.
                        Pease, The Laws of the Northwest Territory, 1788-1800 (
                     Springfield, Illinois
                  , 1925), 317-516, xxx. This is volume XVII of the 
                            Illinois
                         State Historical Library Collections (
                            Springfield
                        , 1903-).
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              North Bend
                           
                                    Aug. 16th 99.
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        At the last session of Congress a bill was brought in and passed through the Senate
                                    for increasing the Judiciary of this Territory from 3 to 5 Judges & as it
                                    was postponed only for the want of time it will be brought forward at the ensuing
                                    Session & I thing there is now doubt but it will be passed into a
                                    law—If this should be the case Mr. Wills3 is desirous
                                    of filling one of [the] to be created seats on the bench of the Genl Court and has
                                    requested me to mention the subject to you as he thinks a letter from you to Mr
                                        Ross4 in his favour will be of great advantage to him
                                    & contribute much toward the attainment of his object. I shall say nothing
                                    of Mr Will's talents as you must be full as well acquainted with them as I
                                    am but only observe that having known him for many years I have always found him
                                    possessed of the strictest integrity. Should you think proper to say any thing in
                                    his favour to Mr Ross I shall esteem it an obligation confered on
                                    myself—but if on the contrary you should not think proper to do so let me
                                    assure that it will produce no other sensation in my breast but regret that you
                                    should not think as highly of Mr Wills as I do
                        I take the liberty of again reminding you of your promise to bring Mrs Worthington
                                    with you when you visit us in September.
                        
                                    I am with great Regard
                                    Dear Sir your
                                    Huml Servt.
                                    Willm H. Harrison
                                
                        Colo Thos Worthington (Colo Thomas Worthington (Ross County
                                        (Jno S. Wills Esqr)
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  3 John S. Wills had been appointed prothonotary to the court of common
                        pleas and clerk to the court of general quarter sessions of the peace for 
                            Adams County
                        , on July 11, 1797. Clarence E. Carter (ed.), Territorial Papers of the 
                                United States
                            
                   (
                            Washington
                        , 1934-), III, 473.
               
                  4 James Ross, a close friend of Arthur St. Clair, was elected by the 
                            Pennsylvania
                         legislature to the 
                            United States
                         Senate in 1794, reelected in 1797, and served until 1803. James H. Peeling,
                        "James Ross," Dictionary of American Biography (20 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1943), XVI, 178; 
                     
                                Pennsylvania
                             Magazine of History (
                            Philadelphia
                        , 1877-), XIII (1889), 4-6.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 
                              
                           
                                    19th Octr 99.
                                
                        I have brought up for you My dear Sir, the following articles of furniture Viz
                        Six Windsor chairs, one bed with a bed stead, two pr. of sheets 2 Do of pillow cases,
                                    1 pr. of blankets, 1 counterpane large & six Teaspons & one very
                                    indifferent table & 3 table cloths. The confusion attendant on packing up
                                    prevented my furnishing you with many other articles. The chairs & table
                                    when you have done with them I have made a present to Dr. Bryant. The other things
                                    with my books you will please to send to Symmes at the bend.
                        enclosed is an order for Colo Sargents Regt. You will please to pay McCullough
                                    whatever you may think reasonable for the House
                        
                                    I am with sincere regard yours &c
                                    Willm H. Harrison
                                
                        Colo Worthington Colo Thomas Worthington 
                                        Cincinnati
                                    
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Philadelphia
                                 
                              
                           
                                    25th April 1800
                                
                        My dear friend
                        I have postponed writing to you every post day until the present under the hope that
                                    I should be able to give an account of the confirmation of our wishes by the final
                                    passage of the law for the Devision of the Territory & that for the sale of
                                    the western lands—neither of these objects however have as yet been
                                    accomplished—the Senate have returned both bills with the amendments
                                    which are herein enclosed—You will observe at a Glance the intention of
                                    the amendmts to the Devision bill—by continuing the "Territory
                                    North West of the the 
                                        Ohio
                                    " all its officers are preserved in Statu
                                    quo—An arrangement entirely the work of Messrs Brown5 & Ross—for the motive which governed the first of these
                                    Gentlemen I am entirely at a loss—that of Mr R. will at once suggest
                                    itself—you will observe the salvo that is given to the
                                    amendments 
                              
                                 5 John Brown was a member of the 
                                                Kentucky
                                             District of 
                                                Virginia
                                             to the Continental Congress in 1787 and 1788. When 
                                                Kentucky
                                             became a state in 1792, he was elected to the 
                                                United States
                                             Senate and served in that capacity until 1805. Biographical Directory of the American Congress, 1774-1927 (
                                                Washington
                                            , 1928), 746.
                           
                                     by fixing the seat of Government at
                                    Chilicothe—altho this is a very desirable thing under the circumstance of
                                    Govr St. Clairs Continuing at the helm of our Government yet under any other
                                    situation I should have opposed it upon the ground that Congress have not a right to
                                    pass any law of local arrangement—as the legislature of our Territory has
                                    complete, absolute & final legislative power. The Amendments are referred to
                                    a select Committee—of which I am not a member of choice—having
                                    requested the Speaker to leave me out of the nomination—a sense of
                                    delicacy prompted by the situation in which I was placed by the petitions &
                                    letters in my favor which the citizens of the Territory have done me the honor to
                                    forward to the executive & other public characters. The Committee have
                                    however declared their intention to make their report in every way conformable to my
                                    wishes. This has led me to enquire amongst the Senators & discover what
                                    would be the chance of their recinding the leading features of their amendments
                                    & I find them determined to loose the bill entirely if their amendments are
                                    not adopted. This has occasioned expressions of the warmest indignation from many of
                                    the leading characters in the House of Representatives. There are several of the
                                    amendments made by the Senate to the land bill which the Select
                                    Committee to whom that bill has been referred disapprove of—&
                                    they have agreed to demand a conferrence—You need be under no
                                    apprehension about your appointment. The Secretary of the Treasury told me the other
                                    day that he would endeavour to get any one appointed whom I may recommend it will be
                                    also I hope in my power to get the appointmt of Receiver of Moneys for Colo
                                        Finley6—I some time ago Reed the letter which
                                    contained the money & have appropriated it as you desired—I
                                    enclose your note.
                        Mrs Harrison is still in Jersey—our children have been innoculated the
                                    Second time the first not having taken effect—
                        Please to present me respectfully to Mrs Worthington— 
                              
                                 6 James Findlay, a native of 
                                                Pennsylvania
                                            , was living in 
                                                Ohio
                                             in 1798 and became a member of the first territorial
                                            legislative council. Two years later he was appointed receiver of public
                                            monies for lands at 
                                                Cincinnati
                                            . Senate Executive Journal, 1789-1805, p. 323;
                                            Carter, Territorial Papers of the 
                                                    United States
                                                
                                 , III, 97; Reginald C. McGrane, "James
                                            Findlay," Dictionary of American Biography, VI,
                                            384-385.
                           
                                     & to all my other friends particularly
                                    the Speaker—Finley—Baldwin Wills Langham7
                                    &c &c —
                        I will soon write to them all but really cannot by this post—
                        
                                    from your friend—
                                    Willm H. Harrison
                                
                        T. Worthington Esqr
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Philada
                           
                                    May 2nd 1800
                                
                        My dear Sir
                        I have this day received your favor of the 23rd Ultimo—& sincerely
                                    thank you for it—The House of Representatives have acceeded to the
                                    amendments of the Senate to the Devision Bill with an amendment to
                                    the 3rd Section to this effect "That the president may appoint the officers
                                    in the recess of the Senate" Mr Ross & Mr. Brown were the managers
                                    on the part of the Senate & Messrs C. Good—8
                                        Rutledge9 & D. Foster10 on the
                                    part of the Representatives. The managers of the Senate were very obstinate
                                    & would not give up a single point of consequence—&
                                    seeing that it was their intention to loose the bill or carry their points I advised
                                    the House of to conceede to them—I do not know who will be the Govr of
                                    the lower Territory—I could have it but I will not
                                    accept it—
                        The Committee of Conference have not yet determined upon the amendments of the Senate
                                    to the land bill—I will inform you on this project as
                                    soon as possible. The bill in Judge Symmes11 favor passed the
                                    House of Representatives 
                              
                                 7 Elias Langham was a member of the first territorial
                                            legislature from 
                                                Ross County
                                            . On December 9, 1800, he was appointed surveyor of 
                                                Ross County
                                            . David M. Massie, Nathaniel Massie, A Pioneer of 
                                                    Ohio
                                                
                                  (
                                                Cincinnati
                                            , 1896), 66; Carter, Territorial Papers of the 
                                                    United States
                                                
                                 , III, 527.
                              
                                 8 Chauncey Goodrich, a Federalist from 
                                                Connecticut
                                            , was a member of the national House of Representatives from
                                            1795 to 1801. Biographical Directory of the American Congress,
                                                1774-1927, p. 1021.
                              
                                 9 John Rutledge, Jr., a Federalist from 
                                                South Carolina
                                            , served in the national House of Representatives from 1797 to
                                            1803. Ibid., 1488.
                              
                                 10 Dwight Foster was elected as a representative from 
                                                Massachusetts
                                             and served from 1793 to 1800. Ibid., 982.
                              
                                 11 John Cleves Symmes, a land speculator from 
                                                New Jersey
                                            , on February 19, 1788, was appointed a judge of the Northwest
                                            Territory. His daughter Anna became the wife of William H. Harrison. Journals of the Continental Congress, 1774-1789 (34 vols., 
                                                Washington
                                            , 1904-1937), XXXIV, 50; Beverly W. Bond, Jr. (ed.), The Correspondence of John Cleves Symmes, Founder of the Miami
                                                Purchase (
                                                New York
                                            , 1926), 1-24; The 
                                                New England
                                             Historical and Genealogical Register (
                                                Boston
                                            , 1847-), XIII (1859), 137.
                           
                                     last Monday unanimously—it is in the
                                    hands of Ross & Brown in the Senate & I am afraid that their enmity
                                    will distroy it.
                        Mrs H. is still in Jersey—our children have the smallpox—I have
                                    not heard from them for a week—I sincerely congratulate you on your
                                    present happiness.
                        My best Respects to Mrs Worthington—& to our worthy Doctor
                                    & Colo Finley.
                        
                                    Your friend
                                    Willm H. Harrison
                                
                        
                           Free Colonel Thomas Worthington Willm Henry Harrison
                                    Chilicothe N.W.T.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Philada
                           
                                    May 14th 1800
                                
                        My dear Sir
                        The President has nominated & the Senate have confirmed the appointment of
                                    yourself as Register of the land office & Colo Finley of Receiver
                           12—I am this moment setting out for
                                    Jersey for Mrs H. The session closes this day—when I return I will
                                    communicate to you our good deeds in the House of R—s
                                    & some of the bad deeds of the S—e—I
                                    yesterday sent to the press a circular letter addressed to my constituents which
                                    will be ready by the time I return i e in 8 or 10 days13
                        
                        
                                    God bless you—yours sincerely—
                                    Willm H. Harrison
                                
                        Colo Worthington Colo Thomas Worthington Chilicothe N W T. 
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Richmond
                                 
                              
                           
                                    July 13th 1800
                           
                                
                        My Dear friend
                        I did not receive your letter of the 6th Ultimo until a few 
                              
                                 12 See ante 6. Worthington was
                                            appointed register of the land office at 
                                    Chillicothe, Ohio
                                 , and Findlay receiver of public monies for
                                            lands at 
                                                Cincinnati
                                            . Carter, Territorial Papers of the 
                                                    United States
                                                
                                 , III, 97.
                              
                                 13 The circular letter was published in the Western Spy, June 11, 1800. A copy of it appears in Logan
                                            Esarey (ed.), Messages and Letters of William Henry
                                            Harrison (2 vols., 
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , Indiana, 1922), I, 12-18. These are volumes VII and IX of the
                                            Indiana Historical Collections (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1916-).
                           
                                     days ago—it arrived here in my
                                    absence—Nothing I assure you was more distant from my intentions than to
                                    accept of the appointment of Governor of the Indiana Territory on the morning of the
                                    day on which the appointment was made but I was assailed by my friends with
                                    arguments which if not sufficient to remove all my scruples were nevertheless
                                    sufficiently weighty to make me abandon my first determination.14 It was suggested to me that as I was better acquainted with the wants and
                                    wishes of the people of this Territory than any other person so it would be more
                                    easy for me to make them Happy and satisfied with their government than a perfect
                                    stranger—to this a powerful motive of a personal and private nature
                                    suggested itself—the state of my affairs would not allow of my
                                    continuence in Congress—if I remained in the upper Territory I could be
                                    of no service to it. The territorial business in Congress was in a fair road to
                                    consummation & could be easily completed by my successor—My
                                    removal could therefore be of no disadvantage—nor would it preclude my
                                    appointment to any office which my circumstances would enable me to accept or the
                                    wishes of my fellow citizens call me to—Under these impressions I thought
                                    it best not to decline the appointment but by accepting it to give myself time to
                                    look about me & take the advice of my friends.—I shall leave this
                                    some time in October & be in Chilicothe at the meeting of the legislature
                                    when I shall have the pleasure of seeing you. My best regards to my friend Tiffin15 & to your better half, to whom also Mrs H. desires
                                    hers to be presented.
                        Mrs H. expects daily to be confined. Please to subscribe for the paper printed at
                                    Chilicothe & directed to be sent to me at this place until the middle of
                                        October.16
                        
                        
                                    Yours truly
                                    Willm H. Harrison
                                
                        Colo Worthington
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  14 Harrison was appointed governor of Indiana Territory on May 13, 1800.
                            Senate Executive Journal, 1789-1805, p. 354.
               
                  15 Edward Tiffin, a native of 
                            England
                        , emigrated to the 
                            United States
                         in 1784 and settled near Charles Town, 
                            Virginia
                        , now in 
                     Jefferson County, West Virginia
                  . Five years later he married
                        Mary Worthington, sister of Thomas. In 1799 and 1801 he was a member of the territorial
                        legislature and served as speaker in both sessions. He became 
                            Ohio
                        &apos;s first governor. William T. Utter, "Edward Tiffin,"
                            Dictionary of American Biography, XVIII, 535-536.
               
                  16 No doubt he has reference to the Sicoto Gazette which
                        was published at 
                     Chillicothe, Ohio
                  .
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Colo Thomas Worthington Chilicothe North Western Territory
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 
                              
                           
                                    Nov. 28th 1800
                           
                                
                        Dear Worthington
                        If Mr Silver had been fortunate enough to have overtaken me at 
                                        Pittsburgh
                                     it was my intention to have put the ladies under his care on their
                                    voyage down the River & to have come on by land myself for the sole purpose
                                    of seeing my friends in Chilicothe. I regret this disappointment the more as I can
                                    not now say when I shall have that pleasure. I shall embrace your offer &
                                    keep a constant correspondence with you—the Surveys, I lodged in the
                                    hands of Mr Newman formerly the land clerk in the war office—he is now
                                    chief clerk in that office—of this I thought I had informed you long
                                    since—a line to Newman & to Wagoner the Chief Clerk in the Dept
                                    of State will effect their passage through the offices— particularly if
                                    you mention my name to them they are both my friends. I do not know whether there
                                    are any impediments to the passage of these surveys. I have lost the memorandum I
                                    made respecting them.
                        My best Regards to Mrs Worthington & to 
                                        Tiffin
                                     & Finley—
                        
                                    from your friend
                                    Willm H. Harrison
                                
                         Colo Worthington Colonel T. Worthington Chilicothe J. S. Wills Esqr.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Vincennes
                                 
                              
                           
                                    9th Septr 1801.17
                           
                                
                        My dear Sir
                        
                           
                              17 Harrison, because of the illness of Mrs. Harrison, did
                                        not reach 
                                            Vincennes
                                         until January 10, 1801, to assume his duties of governor of Indiana
                                        Territory. Quarterly Publication of the Historical and
                                            Philosophical Society of 
                                                Ohio
                                            
                               (18 vols., 
                                            Cincinnati
                                        , 1906-1923), II (1907), 100; "Executive Journal of Indiana
                                        Territory, 1800-1816," in Indiana Historical Society Publications (
                                            Indianapolis
                                        , 1895-), III (1900), 95.
                        
                        
                        Enclosed you will receive a bill on Mr Lucas Sullivant18 for two
                                    Hundred & fifty Dollars—This bill was forwarded to me by
                                    & is the property of Mr. William Berkley the Treasurer of the State of 
                                        Virginia
                                     who married a neice of mine. Will you be so obliging as to receive the
                                    money & if possible transmit it to Mr Berkley at 
                                        Richmond
                                    —I would also be much pleased to hear from you on this
                                    & any other subject which you may think proper to write on. When do you
                                    propose to make an attempt at an Independent Govt? What success have you in the sale
                                    of land? & does your country continue to populate as fast as formert[l]y. My
                                    situation here is as happy as I could have expected, the people are very orderly and
                                    I believe are as much attached to me as any people ever were to a magistrate not
                                    choosen by themselves. The country about this place is I think the most beautiful in
                                    the world—& it now begins to flourish—You have no Idea
                                    of the state of wretchedness to which they were reduced by the neglect &
                                    inattention of their Government. We are every day gaining respectable citizens,
                                    & I look forward to the Time when we shall as far excell in the arts of
                                    cultivation as we certainly now do in Natural beauties.
                        Give my best Regards to Dr Tiffin & all our Mutual friends.
                        
                                    I am Truly yours
                                    Willm H. Harrison
                                
                        P.S. Will you write to Mr Berkley & inform him what is the chance of
                                    getting the money from Sullivant. Colo Thomas Worthington near Chilicothe North
                                    Western Territory 
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Vincennes
                                 
                              
                           
                                    22nd Jany 1802
                                
                        Dear Worthington
                        Inclosed is a letter from a friend of mine in 
                                        Virginia
                                     (Carter Page) relating to some land of his which has been sold to pay
                                    the taxes. Do my dear Sir Releive it instantly by paying whatever is
                                    necessary—& if you please write immediately to Mr Page &
                                    let him know what you have done. I 
                              
                                 18 Lucas Sullivant founded the town of Franklinton on
                                            the Scioto River opposite the site of the future town
                                            and capital, 
                                                Columbus
                                            . Beverly W. Bond, The Foundations of 
                                                    Ohio
                                                 (The History of the State of 
                                                    Ohio
                                                
                                 , edited by Carl F. Wittke, 6 vols., 
                                                Columbus
                                            , 1941-1944), I, 352.
                           
                                     would have written this letter to the Doctor but
                                    by a letter from Danl Symmes I am informed that he is gone to 
                                        Washington
                                     & know his liberality & Friendship for me will induce
                                    him to release this land to the worthy owner—but pay any thing that may
                                    be necessary & draw on Mr Page or myself & it will be honoured on
                                    sight.—I have seen the law which your legislature have passed on the
                                    subject of altering the boundary lines of the future states19—pray did this body suppose that the citizens of this Territory
                                    had rights? did they suppose that they would quietly look on & suffer a
                                    measure to be carried into effect which must procrastinate their emansipation from
                                    the arbitrary Govt under which they are at present placed? It was adding insult to
                                    injury to pass such a law without taking any steps to ascertain our sentiments on a
                                    subject in which we have as much interest as themselves— & over
                                    which the ordinance gives us complete Controle. The alteration contemplated effects
                                    all the then intended States & therefore cannot be carried
                                    into effect without the seperate consent of the Inhabitants
                                    residing in each of the devisions, of the 
                                        United States
                                     & of 
                                        Virginia
                                    —this the Ordinance declares—& this you
                                    may depend upon it the citizens here will insist on—their indignation has
                                    been roused to a degree of frenzy at the Presumption of your Honourable Legislature for daring to propose a line to be run through their
                                    country loping off a number of their citizens without deigning to ask their
                                    consent—I believe a Remonstrance will certainly be forwarded to Congress
                                    by the people who will attend court at this place on the 2nd day of
                                    February—
                        How could you let the Governors friends blind you so much as to keep three members in
                                    the House of Representatives from 
                                        Wayne
                                     when they are actually not entitled to but one—So far from
                                    their being a doubt of the situation of Macanac [Mackinac] there is not a man at 
                                        Detroit
                                     who does not believe it a degree at least within their
                                    Territory—& I suppose you know that the 600 or 800 men belonging
                                    to that place gave the two additional members to 
                                        Wayne
                                    —the people here intend to remonstrate on this subject
                                    also—they will not part with Macanac—& you &
                                    your friends may remain 
                              
                                 19 See Randolph C. Downes, Frontier 
                                                    Ohio
                                                , 1788-1803 (
                                                Columbus
                                            , 1935), 199. This is volume III of the 
                                                Ohio
                                             Historical Collections (
                                                Columbus
                                             1931-) The act consented to a division of the Northwest
                                            Territory by lines drawn north along the Scioto River
                                            and from the Falls of the 
                                                Ohio
                                            . It was intended to defeat or delay statehood for 
                                                Ohio
                                            .
                           
                                     contented with regard to the alteration of the
                                    State lines. We will never agree to it here.
                        Mrs H. is at present indisposed—(the rest of my family are
                                    well)—give her & my best Regards to Mrs W & believe me Yr
                                    friend
                        
                                    Willm H Harrison
                                
                        Give my best Regards to Colo Finely & tell him I admire highly admire every part of his conduct in the contest with the Chief but his resignation—I wish you
                                    would write to Mr. Page immediately on the subject of his land he is very uneasy
                                    about it. Colo Thomas Worthington or Doctor Edward Tiffin Chilicothe N.W.T.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Vincennes
                                 
                              
                           
                                    11th June 1802
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        I have the pleasure to acknowledge the receipt of your letter of the 20th
                                    May—
                        Your conquest over the arbitary faction of your Territory has given me the sincerest
                                    pleasure—The 
                                        Cincinnati
                                     Junto20 will I fear however give you some trouble
                                    still—their cunning and perseverance are I believe
                                    unexampled—I have no doubt but their Machinations have also extended to
                                    this Territory—for what purpose god and themselves only
                                    know—Unless it was intended to [do] me injury—However their
                                    labour repaid their pains—& I put their motive at
                                    defiance.—Notwithstanding I am conscious that Govr St Clair has
                                    endeavoured to injure me—as I am not a citizen of your Territory I think
                                    it would be highly improper to give the certificate you request—indeed if
                                    I recollect well the letter was shewn to me in confidence—which
                                    absolutely precludes all possibility of my giving such a certificate to be made
                                    public—I shall pass through your town on my way to the seat of Government
                                    in the fall and will indeavor to be there during the sitting of the Convention.21 My object in going to 
                                        Washington
                                     is to obtain the 
                              
                                 20 Obviously a Federalist group in 
                                                Cincinnati
                                             which opposed the movement for statehood.
                              
                                 21 This was the convention which furnished the first
                                            constitution for the state of 
                                                Ohio
                                            .
                           
                                     passage of some laws which are necessary to the
                                    Citizens of this territory—the people are very anxious that I should
                                    go—& I mean to oblige them altho&apos; it will be
                                    extremely inconvenient to me to leave home at that time.
                        Mr W Mills is a most inveterate drunkard. I spoke to Dr Tisdale on the subject of his
                                    Resignation & he observed that he would continue to act until the business
                                    was finished —which I think much better than the appointment of a new
                                    Collector.—
                        Did you hear any of the great men speak of the Govt of this
                                    Territory? Three opponents are already held up to me for the next appointment of
                                    Governor—viz—Mr Davis of Congress22 Mr M
                                        Lyon23—& a Genl Brackenridge24 near 
                                        Louisville
                                        Kentucky
                                    —However I do not know that I have any reason to dread either
                                    of them.
                        With respect to your question about the Counties in this Territory—there
                                    are four—viz—St Clair Knox & 
                                        Randolph
                                     (which existed before the Devision) & Clark which has been laid
                                    out by me.
                        Mrs Harrison is not in good health—but I am in hopes she will be much
                                    better in a few Months
                        
                        My respects to your family—Dr. Tiffin Colo Findlay Mr Baldwin &
                                    the rest of my friends.
                        
                                    I am Dr Sir your friend—
                                    
                                        Willm H. Harrison
                                    
                                
                        Colo Thos Worthington Chilicothe N.W.T.
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  22 This was probably Thomas Terry Davis who represented 
                            Kentucky
                         in the national House of Representatives from 1797 to 1803. In 1803 he was
                        appointed a 
                            United States
                         Judge of Indiana Territory. He served as chancellor of Indiana Territory from March
                        1, 1806, to November 15, 1807. Biographical Directory of the American Congress,
                            1774-1927, p. 888.
               
                  23 Matthew Lyon, a native of 
                            Ireland
                        , who emigrated to the 
                            United States
                         in 1765. From 1797 to 1801 he represented 
                            Vermont
                         in the national House of Representatives. During the latter year he moved to 
                            Kentucky
                        . Ibid., 1248.
               
                  24 This may have been Robert Breckenridge, son of Robert Breckinridge of 
                            Virginia
                        , who was an officer in the American Revolution and who moved to 
                            Kentucky
                         soon after the war. He was a member of the 
                            Kentucky
                         constitutional convention of 1792 and lived in and near 
                            Louisville
                         until after 1830. Joseph A. Waddell, Annals of 
                        Augusta County, Virginia
                     
                   (
                            Richmond
                        , 1886), 140-142.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Vincennes
                                 
                              
                           
                                    26th Octr 1803
                                
                        Dear Worthington—
                        I believe you know my habit of procrastination too well to render an appology
                                    necessary for my having so long neglected to write you. the fact is that I fully
                                    intended to have done it every week for four months at least You would however
                                    certainly have had a letter waiting your arrival at 
                                        Washington
                                     but for these eight weeks past I have been very unwell & the
                                    greater part of the Time unable to write at all from a violent inflamation in my
                                    eyes which at this moment is far from being removed.
                        In the first place let me congratulate you upon your elivation to a seat amongst the
                                    wise men of the Nation.25 In this distinguished situation it
                                    will be in your power to render essencial services to your state & indeed to
                                    the whole western Country your Knowl[e]dge of which is perhaps as extensive as that
                                    of any of your brother members & from the activity of your mind &
                                    the eagerness with which you seek information I am persuaded you will possess an
                                    extensive influence in the National Councils—You will no doubt accustom
                                    yourself to deliver your sentiments in the Senate, let me recommend to you however
                                    to speak seldom at first & never to attempt to make a long
                                    speech—When you design to speak on any subject select one or two of the
                                    strongest arguments that occur in favour of the side you propose to advocate
                                    & make use of those alone—there is not one man in a thousand who
                                    is not trained to it by a long course of practice at the bar that ever succeeds in
                                    that figure of Rhetorick called amplification it is indeed the rock upon which young
                                    orators generally split. I am affraid you will think all this advice very
                                    presumptuous & it is very possible that you may be able to instruct me on
                                    those very points in which I have presumed to dictate to you —but I
                                    really feel a warm interest in your success & what I have said proceeded
                                    from the sincerest friendship. Mr Parke26 left this a few days
                                    since on his way to the seat of 
                              
                                 25 When the first legislature met in 
                                                Chillicothe
                                             on March 1, 1803, Worthington was elected a senator from 
                                                Ohio
                                            . Frank T. Cole, "Thomas Worthington," in 
                                    
                                                    Ohio
                                                 State Archaeological and Historical Quarterly (
                                                Columbus
                                            , 1887-), XII (1903), 348.
                              
                                 26 Benjamin Parke was born in 
                                                New Jersey
                                             and settled in Indiana about 1800. He was a delegate to
                                            Congress from 1805 to 1808 and during the latter year was appointed by
                                            Thomas Jefferson a territorial judge, which office he held until Indiana
                                            became a state. He participated in the discussions at the Indiana
                                            constitutional convention in
                           
                                     Government to endeavor to effect the objects of
                                    his last years mission. He informed me that you promised to aid him in every
                                    particular excepting that of the introduction of slaves. I am sorry you are so much
                                    opposed to this measure—but more so on account of the opinion you have
                                    given that the consent of the State of 
                                        Ohio
                                     is necessary before we can have slaves in this Territory27—You certainly did not consider this subject sufficiently or
                                    you would not have given such an opinion. The Articles of Compact (so called) are
                                    made between the 
                                        U.S.
                                     & each particular State to be formed out of the then North
                                    Western Territory & the words "mutual Consent" mean
                                    nothing more, certainly, than the consent of the Contracting parties—it
                                    is true that by Construction & by construction only
                                    & not by the plain & obvious meaning of the words—they
                                    are construed so as to make it necessary to have the consent of all the several
                                    states which may be formed as above to any alteration in the Articles which directly affect the interests of all—but on a question
                                    like the present in which the state of 
                                        Ohio
                                     has no more interest or concern than the state of 
                              Kentucky, Vermont
                            or any other state in the Union a reference to
                                    either of those states would be as proper as to the state of 
                                        Ohio
                                    —but enough of this subject—
                        There has been much speculation in this country on the destiny of 
                                        Louisiana
                                    —It is generally supposed that what is called 
                                        Upper Louisiana
                                     which extends (that is the Settlements) from Lanse le Grosse to the 
                                        Missouri
                                     will be attached to this Territory—almost the whole of those
                                    settlements will be as convenient to this place as those of Cahokia &
                                    KasKaskias—almost four fifths of the inhabitants are upon the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     (or near it) from the 
                                        Missouri
                                     to Lanse le Grosse & one fifth up the 
                                        Missouri
                                     the highest settlement of which is about 60 miles from the 
                                        Mississippi
                                    . A most ridiculous scheme has been hatched in KasKasKias i e to cut off
                                    the counties of St. Clair & 
                                        Randolph
                                     (which are in the 
                                        Illinois
                                    ) & attach them to the 
                                        Upper Louisiana
                                    
                           28—for the purpose of forming a 
                              1816. When Indiana was admitted to the Union, James Monroe appointed him a 
                                                United States
                                             District Judge. William Wesley Woollen, Biographical and Historical Sketches of Early Indiana (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1883), 384-385.
                              
                                 27 This reveals Harrison&apos;s friendly
                                            attitude towards slavery.
                              
                                 28 The memorial to Congress from the inhabitants of
                                            these two counties is printed in Carter, Territorial Papers of
                                                the 
                                                    United States
                                                
                                 , VII (1939), 140-144.
                           
                                     Territorial Government of the
                                    two—there would then be left in this Territory exclusive of 
                                        Detroit
                                     about 4000 Inhabitants only & this settlement would be still
                                    nearly as far from those on the 
                                        Ohio
                                     as the Counties in the 
                                        Illinois
                                     are at present from this place—the only greivance they
                                    Complain of is this distance from the seat of Governt This to the furthest
                                    settlement (Cahokia) is about 150 miles & by the late Treaty with the
                                    KasKaskias Tribe over half the distance has become the property of the 
                                        U.S.
                                     & we have the right of fixing three stations on the other
                                    moiety of the way for the accomadation of Travelers.
                        Mr. Parke will converse with you upon all the subjects connected with his mission but
                                    there is one in which I alone am interested that I must beg your attention
                                    to—Viz—If a bill for regulating the post office establishment
                                    should be introduced this session I wish if possible to have a clause introduced
                                    allowing me to receive letters free of postage—As there are seldom
                                    private Conveyances my Correspondence with the distant Counties is almost entirely
                                    through the medium of the post—this together with the reports &
                                    returns from the several Indian Agents—applications from Individuals on
                                    account of depredations Committed by the Indians & ten thousand other Items
                                    run up my account with the post master to at least Sixty Dollars per
                                    Annum—I wrote last year to several of my friends on the subject &
                                    the Secretary of War promised particularly to patronise it—
                        I will write to you again in a few days—Mrs H. requests me to present her
                                    respects to you.
                        I am Dr Worthington
                        
                                    your friend
                                    
                                        Willm H. Harrison
                                    
                                
                        P.S. I had something else to say to you but my eyes are so bad that it is with
                                    the utmost difficulty that I can write at all Honble Thos Worthington Esqr. The
                                    Honble Thomas Worthington in the Senate of the 
                                        U.S.
                                        Washington City
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Vincennes
                                 
                              
                           
                                    25th Deer 1804
                                
                        Dear Worthington
                        I am very much indebted to you for the exertions you made in my behalf during the
                                    last Session of Congress and altho the object was not obtained for which you
                                    contended my gratitude is not the less on that account.
                        It appears to me strange that Congress should think it proper to make me perform the
                                    duties of two governments for the emoluments which have been for several years
                                    attached to one of them.29 About 5 weeks ago I returned from a
                                    tour to 
                                        Louisiana
                                     I found the people of that Country much more attached to the Government
                                    of the 
                                        United States
                                     than I expected they were from the accounts I had received & I
                                    am persuaded I left them much more so than they were on my arrival—What
                                    do you intend to do with that Country?30 I hope that they may be
                                    made to pass a probationship before they are admitted into the Union for which they
                                    are certainly not ripe. The people of 
                                        Upper Louisiana
                                     However are very far from wishing to be placed in that
                                    situation—their object is to obtain a Seperate Territorial Government
                                    & security for their land titles.
                        The Indiana Territory has at length entered the Second grade of
                                    Government—it was most warmly opposed here by your acquaintance 
                                        Vanderburgh
                                    
                           31—& a Scotchman of the name of
                                        McIntosh32 & in the 
                                        Illinois
                                     Country by Colo Edgar33
                                    
                              
                                 29 When Harrison became governor of Indiana Territory,
                                            he was also ex officio superintendent of Indian affairs for the territory.
                                                Annals of Congress, 6 Cong., 1 Seas., 1499. Harrison
                                            complained about not being paid extra for additional work.
                              
                                 30 By an act of March 26, 1804, the District of 
                                                Louisiana
                                             was joined to Indiana for administrative purposes. This union
                                            lasted until the formation of 
                                                Louisiana
                                             Territory on July 4, 1805. Ibid., 8 Cong., 1
                                            Sess., 1227-1299; ibid., 8 Cong., 2 Sess., 1684-1686.
                              
                                 31 Henry Vanderburgh was appointed a probate judge and
                                            justice of peace for 
                                                Knox County
                                             on August 12, 1791, a member of the legislative council of the
                                            Northwest Territory in 1799, and a judge of Indiana Territory in 1800.
                                            Carter, Territorial Papers of the 
                                                    United States
                                                
                                 , III, 356; Senate Executive Journal,
                                                1789-1805, p. 323.
                              
                                 32 William McIntosh was appointed treasurer of Indiana
                                            Territory in 1804. Carter, Territorial Papers of the 
                                                    United States
                                                
                                 , VII, 194. McIntosh, Edgar, and the Morrisons were
                                            leaders of the anti-Harrison faction.
                              
                                 33 John Edgar, a Scots-Irishman, came to 
                                                Kaskaskia
                                             in 1784. He represented 
                                                Randolph County
                                             in the first legislature of the Northwest Territory. James H.
                                            Roberts, "The Life and Times of General John Edgar," Transactions of the 
                                                    Illinois
                                                 State Historical Society for the Year 1907 (
                                                Springfield
                                            , 1908), 64-73.
                           
                                     & the Morrison family34—the people of 
                                        Detroit
                                     did not vote upon the question at all—they say that the writ
                                    of election did not arrive in time—but I believe the Truth is that they
                                    are determined not to have any thing to do with us. I have however assigned them
                                    their full share of the Representative i e three out of nine—this arises
                                    from the number of engages at Michilimacanac but the number of voters in that County
                                    is not equal to those of this County. The election of the Representatives will take
                                    place on the 3rd of next month & the meeting of the Members to choose the
                                    Council on the 1st day of February hardly time enough to send on the Nomination to
                                    the President before Congress will rise—if it does not get there in Time
                                    I must beg the favor of you to get a clause inserted in some law (or a seperate law
                                    passed for the purpose) to authorise the President to make the selection of
                                    Councillors in the recess of the Senate—this is a matter of much
                                    importance to us & I must beg your particular attention to it—if
                                    the Members come on at the day appointed & the Mail goes on to 
                                        Washington
                                     without interruption the nomination of the Council will reach the
                                    President about the 26th of February—but you know that there are a
                                    thousand accidents to retard both the one & the other in passing through
                                    immense Wilderness—if We cannot get our Council organised before the next
                                    Session of Congress We cannot get a Delegate to that body until late next Winter.
                        If the bill for making an addition to the Salaries of the Govr & Judges
                                    & Secretary of this Territory should be revived this Session & you
                                    should discover that it is not likely to pass perhaps you could prevail on them to
                                    give us a sum in gross for our services—I have heard that it was the
                                    intention of some of the members to add &#x0024;400 to the salary of the
                                    Judges but not to encrease mine. This would make their compensation just equal to
                                    mine as Governor—it is true that I receive &#x0024;800 as
                                    Superintendant of Indian affairs—(making in the whole
                                    &#x0024;2000) but God knows that I richly earn the
                                    &#x0024;800—& so will any man who performs his duty
                                    & has the Superintendance of 10 or 12 Indian Tribes, this 800$
                                    was a sinecure to Govr St. Clair because he paid no attention to Indian affairs
                                    & it 
                              
                                 34 William Morrison born at 
                                    Doylestown, Pennsylvania
                                 , came west and established a store in
                                                    
                                    Cahokia, Illinois
                                 , about 1800. He
                                            and his brother Robert opposed Harrison. W. J. Ghent, "William
                                            Morrison," Dictionary of American Biography,
                                            XIII, 230-231.
                           
                                     is so still to the Governor of 
                                        New Orleans
                                     & the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     Territory. I rely upon you exerting yourself to serve me in this
                                    particular. I am affraid that the House of Representatives will not be so liberal as
                                    the Senate. I must therefore beg you to use your influence amongst the Members of
                                    that house in my favor. Those from whose friendship I should expect assistance in
                                    that House are—Messrs Eppes,35 Newton36 Clopton37 Nicholson38 &
                                        Eliot.39 I have written to Eppes. Newton is an old school
                                    mate. If you think proper you may speak to them upon my subject.
                        Mrs Harrison is not very well but desires her respects may be presented to
                                    you—she presented me in October with the 3rd son & & the
                                    5th child—
                        
                                    from your friend—
                                    Willm H. Harrison
                                
                        Honble Colo Worthington Ansd May 10th 1805
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Vincennes
                                 
                              
                           
                                    25th May 1805.
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        I receivd your favor of the 10th Inst. by the last mail & should agreeably to
                                    your request have answered it by its returned but it was closed before I knew of its
                                    arrival. I have enclosed your letter to Mr Coopland who will immediately write you
                                    & enclose the money necessary to reimburse you. I would have done it myself
                                    but I have already drawn for my present quarters salary & there is not a
                                    bank bill to be had here. Mr Coopland is my brother in law & will I am sure
                                    be very grateful for your friendship to him
                        I am sorry to hear that you have doubts respecting your Continuance in Congress. Why
                                    should you decline? There 
                              
                                 35 John W. Eppes from 
                                                Virginia
                                             was elected to the national House of Representatives and served
                                            from 1803 to 1811. Biographical Directory of the American
                                                Congress, 1774-1927, p. 947.
                              
                                 36 Thomas Newton, a Virginian, was a member of the
                                            national House of Representatives from 1801-1829, 1829-1830, and 1831-1833.
                                                Ibid., 1356.
                              
                                 37 John Clopton was also a representative from 
                                                Virginia
                                            . He served from 1795 to 1799 and 1801 to 1816. Ibid., 825.
                              
                                 38 Joseph H. Nicholson was a representative from 
                                                Maryland
                                             in the national Congress from 1799 to 1806. Ibid., 1358.
                              
                                 39 James Elliott was elected as a representative from 
                                                Vermont
                                             and served from 1803 to 1809. During the War of 1812, he served
                                            as a captain for a short time. Ibid., 940.
                           
                                     are certainly few men in the Western Country
                                    better able to make the sacrifice of time than you are—& few who
                                    could render more service to it. I thank you sincerely for what you have done
                                    & what you intend to do for me.
                        If you are at leasure suppose you make us a visit this summer for a few
                                    weeks—you can pretend business in this quarter to prevent people from
                                    supposing that you have run off from the Ague & fever
                        
                        Mrs Harrison remembers with gratitude your polite attentions to her. Accept of our
                                    best Wishes for you and yours.
                        
                                    I remain sincerely your friend
                                    
                                        Willm H. Harrison
                                    
                                
                        Honble T. Worthington Esqr The Honble Thomas Worthington Esqr
                                    Chilicothe
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Vincennes
                                 
                              
                           
                                    23rd Novr 1805.
                                
                        Dear Worthington
                        Agreeably to your recommendation I have sent forward a petition to Congress from the
                                    Judges Secretary & myself praying compensation for the duties performed by
                                    us in the District of 
                                        Louisiana
                                    . It was supposed that it would be better to try our fate first in the
                                    House of Representatives & therefore the petition was sent to my friend
                                    Eppes I have no doubt you will give it all the aid in your power. I have another
                                    favor to ask of you—a new nomination for Governor of this Territory comes
                                    on at the present Session & altho I have every reason to believe that the
                                    President entirely approves of my administration; the affair is of such importance
                                    to me that it would be improper to neglect any honorable means of securing a
                                    reappointment. I know that in all affairs relating to the Western Country grenerally
                                    the members of Congress from that devision of the 
                                        United States
                                     have as they ought to have great influence. I therefore count upon your
                                    exertions in my favor & be assured they shall always be held in grateful
                                    rememberance. I wish you to write to me on the subject as soon as you can ascertain
                                    what the result is likely to be. You are acquainted with our Deligate Mr Parke who
                                    is a very worthy man or I would have given him a letter of Introduction  to you. He will amuse you with an account of our
                                    Territorial politics.
                        Mrs. Harrison desires her compliments to you & to Mrs. Worthington should she
                                    be with you.
                        
                                    I am Dr sir with great Regard your Hum Servt.
                                    
                                        Willm Henry Harrison
                                    
                                
                        The Honble Thomas Worthington Esqr
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Vincennes
                                 
                              
                           
                                    10th Decemr 1811.
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        If years have passed away without any communication between us it has not been
                                    occasioned on my part from the want of regard and attachment to you. I recollect
                                    indeed some years ago to have experienced for a short time some little uneasiness
                                    from something that I had heard. But it has been so long vanished from my mind that
                                    I have at this moment but a faint recollection of the circumstances & none
                                    of the particulars. I would long since have written to you but I am one of those
                                    unfortunate mortals who procrastinate every thing that is not necessary to be done
                                    immediately & which requires the use of the pen. Writing has always been my
                                    aversion & the great deal of it that I am obliged to do has not lessened by
                                    dislike to it. Petitions have been forwarded to Congress in favor of the sufferrers
                                    in the late action with the Indians. I hope that your talents & influence
                                    will be exerted in their favor. Nothing in my opinion can be more just and politic
                                    than for the U States to provide handsomely for the families of those who were
                                    killed, as well as for those who were badly wounded. I have now in my House a Major
                                    White of 
                                        Shelby County
                                     Ky. altho a Major in his state he served under me as a private. He is
                                    by trade a gun smith but I fear that a wound he received in the shoulder will
                                    forever render his left hand useless. What compensation would 5 Dolls per month be
                                    to him? I know also several persons who were killed that had left their families
                                    upon land which they had entered & on which they had paid one or two
                                    instalments that have no other means of making the money for the other payments but
                                    by their labour. This was particularly the case with Lt. McMahon—without
                                    the Interferance of Congress his family will be turned off of the land &
                                    left destitute of  subsistance. Congress can very
                                    well afford to spare a little of their land to those who have contributed to defend
                                    it with their blood. What is called the new purchase above this on the 
                                        Wabash
                                     is the finest part of the Western world in my estimation.
                        Whilst I was upon the late expedition Mrs Harrison added to our family a son which
                                    brings up my number of children to eight of whom five are sons. I hope that you have
                                    been equally successful. I enclose you herewith a 
                                        Vincennes
                                     paper containing all our news which I wish to use the
                                    Indian phrase "to swap" for some of yours.
                        
                        
                                    I am with great Regard your friend & Sevt.
                                    
                                        Willm H Harrison
                                    
                                
                        P.S. If it is in your power to render any services to my aid de camp Major
                                    & (Judge) Taylor do so.40 You will find him a clever
                                    fellow. The Honble General T. Worthington in the Senate of the 
                                        United States
                                    
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 
                              
                           
                                    7th Augt 1812.
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        I have expected to have had the pleasure of seeing you before the Commencement of the
                                    Council at 
                                        Piqua
                                     but as I have been called by Express from Govr Scott41 to 
                                        Frankfort
                                     & am now about setting out I must abandon the Idea. The letter
                                    which you wrote me in the latter end of February or March was received but leaving
                                    home shortly afterwards & not returning until the Papers announced a recess
                                    of Congress 
                              
                                 40 Waller Taylor, who was born in 
                                    Lunenburg County, Virginia
                                 , before 1786, had settled in 
                                                Vincennes
                                             in 1805. Two years later he was appointed chancellor of the
                                            territory. He resigned this office when he was appointed a judge of Indiana
                                            Territory. At the Battle of Tippe-canoe he was a major. When Indiana entered
                                            the Union, he was elected to represent the state in the 
                                                United States
                                             Senate. Charles W. Taylor, Biographical Sketches
                                                and Review of the Bench and Bar of Indiana (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1895), 27-28.
                              
                                 41 Charles Scott was born in 
                                                Virginia
                                             about 1739. In 1785 he moved to 
                                                Kentucky
                                            . Five years later he participated in Josiah
                                            Harmar&apos;s expedition against the Indians on the Scioto. In 1794
                                            he took part with 
                                                Wayne
                                            &apos;s army in the Battle of Fallen Timbers. He was
                                            elected governor of 
                                                Kentucky
                                             in August, 1808. One of his last official acts was to
                                            commission William Henry Harrison of the 
                                                United States
                                             Army as a major general of the 
                                                Kentucky
                                             militia. Samuel M. Wilson, "Charles Scott,"
                                                Dictionary of American Biography, XVI, 487.
                           
                                     being about to take place and sending off my
                                    family shortly after to this place it afforded me the prospect of a personal
                                    interview which I assure you would have been very agreeable to me as this hope has
                                    however been rendered abortive by the postponement of the Council & my being
                                    obliged to leave the State I drop you this to assure you of my willingness to bury
                                    in forgetfulness every unpleasant feeling which may have arrisen from incorrect
                                    Statements the fact is that I never had a particle of resentment towards you
                                    & no other sentiment but that of regret at your puting as I supposed a harsh
                                    construction upon my conduct.
                        I fear that your Council will be but thinly attended unless our army at 
                                        Detroit
                                     should at least be in the way to victory or that the Indians should
                                    think so. You will see in the papers a letter from Govr Edwards42 to Govr Scott by which it appears that the whole mass of Indians between
                                        Lake Michigan & the 
                                        Mississippi
                                     are hostile altho some of their Chiefs are now in the Seat of
                                    Government. I am instructed to take the command of the troops destined for that
                                    quarter—but I have recommended to the Sec&apos;y of War to send a
                                    regular officer for the purpose—in the mean time I shall do everything in
                                    my power to put things in a proper train.
                        I have sent the bearer Mr Barron to act as Interpreter to the 
                                        Wabash
                                     Tribes.43 He has been employed in that capacity for
                                    many years & has ever manifested the greatest fidelity in the discharge of
                                    his duty.
                        Please to present my Respects to Govr Meiggs.44 Mrs. H &
                                    my family will remain here until October, & should you be able to visit this
                                    after the Council we will be glad to see you.
                        
                                    I am Dr Sir yours Respectfully
                                    Willm H Harrison
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  42 Ninian Edwards was born in 
                     Montgomery
                                County, Maryland
                  , and in
                        1795 moved to 
                            Kentucky
                        . In 1809 he was appointed governor of 
                            Illinois
                         Territory by James Madison. When 
                            Illinois
                         became a state in 1818, he began his career in the 
                            United States
                         Senate. Wayne E. Stevens, "Ninian Edwards," in ibid., VI, 41-42.
               
                  43 This no doubt was Joseph Barron born at 
                     Detroit, Michigan
                  , Carter, Territorial Papers of the 
                                United States
                            
                  , VIII (1939), 444.
               
                  44 Return J. Meigs, who was born at 
                     Middletown, Connecticut
                  , and who came to 
                            Ohio
                         in 1788, was appointed judge of the Northwest Territory in 1798. He was elected
                        governor of 
                            Ohio
                         in 1810 and was active in raising troops in the War of 1812. William T. Utter,
                        "Return Jonathan Meigs," Dictionary of American Biography,
                        XII, 509-610.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Honble Genl Worthington —The Honble General Worthington at 
                                        Piqua
                                        Ohio
                                     Mr Barron
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                                 
                                    Cincinnati
                                 
                              
                           
                                    28th August 1812
                                    8 o Clock P.M.
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        Your letter to Genl Payne45 of yesterday was put into my hands
                                    this eveng. All the troops of my command that are on this side the 
                                        Ohio
                                     will be put in motion early tomorrow morning—and I have
                                    ordered Captn Garrard46 with a fine troop of Dragoons (armed
                                    however at this time as mounted Infantry) to proceed with all possible dispatch
                                    & put himself under the orders of Govr Meiggs or in his absence such other
                                    officer as may have been directed to take command of the mounted Corps ordered to
                                    releive Ft. 
                                        Wayne
                                    —Captn Garrards is the only mounted company that I have with
                                    me—nor do I expect any other before monday next. I shall set out myself
                                    from hence the day after tomorrow morning & will overtake the Infantry by
                                    the time they reach 
                                        Dayton
                                    —I have dispatched an express & have directed him to
                                    ride night & day to hurry on the troops that are on their march from 
                                        Kentucky
                                    —A regiment of Infantry will arrive at 
                                        New Port
                                     tomorrow evg but it will require two days to pay & equip
                                    them— If Govr. Meiggs should be with you please to communicate this
                                    letter to him.
                        
                                    I am Dr Sir yours Respectfully
                                    Willm Henry Harrison
                                
                        Honble T. Worthington [Esq] Marginal note: Please to send the enclosed
                                    letter as directed. Honble T. Worthington esqr Piqua Mr. Shaw 
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  45 This was probably John Payne, a citizen of 
                     Augusta, Kentucky
                  . He was an active and brave officer under Harrison at the battles
                        of Mis8issinawa Towns and the Thames. Richard H. Collins, History of 
                                Kentucky
                            
                   (2 vols., 
                            Louisville
                        , 1924), II, 93.
               
                  46 William Garrard commanded a troop of volunteer state dragoons. The
                        names of the men are recorded in ibid., 76.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Franklinton
                           
                                    13th Septr 1812
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        Will you be so obliging as to have a waiscoat made for me at Chilicothe of Blue
                                    Superfine cloth double breasted & limed [sic] with an
                                    Edging of Gold Cord round it. Send it to me as soon as it is done and a conveyance
                                    offers together with the price & it. shall be immediately forwarded. You can
                                    give the tayler a pretty good Idea of my size recollecting that I am as lank as a
                                    New Market Jockey
                        
                                    Yr friend
                                    
                                        Willm Henry Harrison
                                    
                                
                        Genl Worthington
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Head Quarters 
                                    Urbana
                                 
                              
                           
                                    11 Octo. 1812
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        The money which you inform me has been placed in your Bank to the credit of Col.
                                        Buford47 will all be expended in the Chilicothe District in
                                    the purchasing provisions to be taken to the Rapids of Miami by the way of Sandusky.
                                    I have dispatched an express after Col. Buford to bring him to the Sciota. The
                                    bearer goes Express to the mouth of Kennawa for the purpose of directing the Troops
                                    there to take the route by Chilicothe & Franklinton to 
                                        Delaware
                                    . Will you be so obliging as to inform the Contractor&apos;s
                                    Agent at Chilicothe of this and direct him to prepare provisions for them. If there
                                    is an agent of Messrs Baymiller & 
                                        Barr
                                     in your Town I must request the favor of you also to inform him that I
                                    shall be at Franklinton tomorrow for the purpose of making arrangements for the
                                    supply of the Troops and that I wish to see him there. From misinformation I had
                                    designated Wooster as the place of Deposit when it should have been Mansfield.
                                    Indeed I now find that a principal part of the supplies may be taken up the Sciota
                                    through Worthington & 
                                        Delaware
                                     directly to Sandusky without passing either Mansfield or Wooster and it
                                    is by this route that I mean a principal part of the supplies are to be carried to
                                    the Miami Rapids. Can flour Cattle, Hogs & Whiskey be procured in the Sciota
                                    Country—to the amt. of the former (flour) of 500,000 Rations & of
                                    Cattle or Hogs & Whiskey 1000,000 of Rations. Give me 
                              
                                 47 Thomas Buford was the deputy commissary at
                                                    
                                    Lancaster, Kentucky
                                 . Esarey, Messages and Letters of William Henry Harrison, II,
                                        92.
                           
                                     all the information you can upon the subject and
                                    send it to Franklinton. The 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                     Troops & the artillery are still intended to go by New Lisbon
                                    Canton & Wooster to Mansfield.
                        I enclose you a letter to a Mr. Morris who is the Agent of Baymiller & 
                                        Barr
                                     the Subcontractors. Will you be so obliging as to send it to him by
                                    Express wherever he may be
                        Four Regiments of my Left Wing are at Defiance under General Winchester.48 Two others thirty six miles in the rear on the Auglaise
                                    building some block houses & boats and one Regiment on St.
                                    Mary&apos;s. The supplies on that wing are in tolerable forwardness. Two
                                    hundred & fifty thousand Rations are at St. Mary&apos;s and
                                    arrangements made to send them on to Defiance. The Depot at St. Mary&apos;s
                                    is also daily increasing.
                        The supplies for the right wing are much behind-hand. Send me if you please to
                                    Franklinton all the information in your power as to the facility of procuring
                                    Cattle, Hogs, Whiskey, flour & Salt in the Sciota Country & on the
                                    heads of the Muskingum.
                        I have not time to inform you of the events which have transpired on the other wing.
                        
                                    Yr friend &
                                    Willm Henry Harrison
                                
                        The Honble T Worthington Public Service from Gen. W. H. Harrison
                                    The Honble Thomas Worthington Chilicothe O.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Hd Quarters Franklinton
                           
                                    20th Novr 1812
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        Your favor of the 10th Inst. reached me this Evg—You inform me that my
                                    nomination as Brigadir lies over in the 
                              
                                 48 James Winchester was born in 
                                    Carroll County, Maryland
                                 , in 1752. In 1785 he
                                            migrated to 
                                                Tennessee
                                            . When 
                                                Tennessee
                                             was admitted to statehood in 1796, he was elected a state
                                            senator and also became the speaker of the Senate. Edd W. Parks,
                                            "James Winchester," Dictionary of American
                                                Biography, XX, 378-379.
                           
                                     Senate until I shall make the declaration that I
                                    will resign my appointment as Govr. of the Inda Territory—to tell you the
                                    truth I am willing that it should lie over forever. You may appear surprised at this
                                    & therefore I will explain myself I had spent a considerable portion of the
                                    prime of my life in the army—& had afterwards devoted much of my
                                    time to the improvement of the information I had acquired in the army—I
                                    believe that there were very few persons in the 
                                        U. States
                                     who had turned their attention that way & as most of the
                                    revolutionary office [r] s were gone or going off the stage I thought that the
                                    little information I possessed might be useful & was very willing to leave a
                                    large helpless & justly beloved family & a snug office &
                                    accept of an military appointait. But I soon found that I had been mistaken as to
                                    the mass of military information in the 
                                        U. States
                                     & that there were enough of the Revolutionary officers still
                                    capable of service as well as others that were qualified to fill all the appointmts
                                    in the grade of general officers I was content therefore to remain at home
                                    tho&apos; mortified a little I confess at my being passed over. You have
                                    been made acquainted with the circumstances which placed me at the Head of a body of
                                    Kenty Troops & that the partiality of the Army & the Western people
                                    had given an importance to my services which I am satsified they did not merit. I
                                    feel myself bound therefore by every principle of duty to continue in the army in
                                    any situation that may be given until the peculiar circumstances which create my
                                    usefullness no longer exist—in other words until peace is restored to the
                                    western country—persuaded that I can then be of no no further importance
                                    to the Army I shall wish to retire not choosing to serve as a Junior Brigadir to
                                    several who have never seen any service—I hope that a few months will put
                                    us in possession of Maiden & prostrate the Indian Tribes at our feet I can
                                    then leave the service without subjecting myself to censure or violating my own
                                    sense of propriety—But if it is thought proper to deprive me of my Govmt
                                    in the mean time I must submit—at any rate I do not want the appointant
                                    of Brigdr If the Commission I have from Kenty will be recognized & unless it
                                    is I cannot command the Army as Genl Winchester being the senior Brigadir will by
                                    the Articles of War have a right to assume it. I have thus my dear Sir done as you
                                    desired i e explained myself candidly to you—& I can assure you I
                                    am quite indifferent  as to the result. Unless my
                                    informants were very much mistaken I am no great favorite of the Senate & I
                                    should not be much surprised if your calculations should prove erronious & I
                                    should be rejected as Brigadier by the that body.—That will not however
                                    prevent me from going with the army in some shape or other
                        With respect to the operations of this army I have little information to give
                                    you—the great obstacle to our advance arises from the difficulty of
                                    transporting our supplies. I had calculated largely upon water transportation for
                                    the left wing & had ordered a considerable number of boats &
                                    perogues to be prepared for a rise of water—the water did
                                    rise—but the boats were not quite ready. The roads on
                                    that wing are nearly impassable for Waggons & our only resource is in Pack
                                    horses—these can be procured immediately but it will take some time to
                                    prepare the equipment for the number ordered & we are very apprehensive that
                                    drivers cannot be procured. I have a large quantity of stores for the army now on
                                    the Sciota & I have taken my stand here to forward them whilst the troops
                                    advance to Sandusky— A Brigade of this state under Genl Perkins49 is now or will be at 
                                        Lower Sandusky
                                     in a day or two—I enclose you a hand bill containing an
                                    abstract of Genl Tuppers50 account of his late expedition to the
                                    Rapids. I have ordered Generals Winchester & Perkins to ascertain if the
                                    enemy are still there & if so to disposess them. I fear that it will not be
                                    in my power to comply with your request as to giving you my opinion on the subject
                                    of a militia law. I do indeed believe that I deserve the opinion you have of me with
                                    respect to industry—but with all that I have I am really scarcely able to
                                    perform the duties which apertain to my station. My private affairs are totally
                                    given up & my property is where ever I have any going to the
                                    devil—my wife & whole family have been & still are
                                    ill—& I have hardly time 
                              
                                 49 Simon Perkins was born at 
                                    Norwich, Connecticut
                                 , September 17, 1771. He moved to
                                                    
                                    Oswego, New York
                                 , in 1795
                                            spending three years in extensive land operations. In the spring of 1798, he
                                            went to 
                                                Ohio
                                             to explore that portion of the Western Reserve which had been
                                            sold by the state of 
                                                Connecticut
                                            . The new proprietors had requested him to undertake this task
                                            and then suggest a plan for the sale and settlement of the lands. Benson J.
                                            Lossing, The Pictorial Field-Book of the War of 1812 (
                                                New York
                                            , 1869), 339.
                              
                                 50 Edward Tupper, a resident of 
                                    Gallipolis, Ohio
                                 , raised one thousand men mostly from
                                            Gallia, Jackson, and Lawrence counties, marched to the northwest and fought
                                            with the enemy at the foot of the Maumee Rapids. Howe, Historical Collections of 
                                                    Ohio
                                                
                                 , I, 680.
                           
                                     to write them a word of comfort—You
                                    will not wonder at this when you reflect on the size [&] the dispersed
                                    situation of the several coprs which compose it the kind of troops of which it is
                                    composed & inexperience of the officers. Until the arrival of Colo
                                        Morrison51 here a few days ago I have had the whole weight
                                    of that important Department upon my own hands.—I am preparing an
                                    Expedition against the Miamis of Mississiniway—If their own Conduct did
                                    not make this measure proper which it certainly does—the position of this
                                    town as it regards one of my lines of operation & the use the other Indians
                                    will make of it to anoy & cut off my convoys makes it
                                    indispensible—It is rendered more so by the failure of Genl
                                        Hopkins—52
                        
                        Your are mistaken in supposing that I am unacquainted with all the members of yr
                                    committee. With Genl Smith of Md53 I have long been very
                                    intimate & still regard him as one of my best friends
                        Be pleased to give my respects to him & tell him that I would willingly give
                                    up the Command of this army either to himself or Colo Monroe54
                                    & serve in a subordinate station
                        
                                    I am yr friend
                                    Willm Henry Harrison
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  51 James Morrison, the son of an Irish emigrant, was born in
                                
                     Cumberland County, Pennsylvania
                  , in 1755. For six years he served in tile army during
                        the American Revolution. In 1792 he moved to 
                     Lexington, Kentucky
                  . He
                        filled many important offices such as, land commissioner, representative in the legislature,
                        supervisor of revenue, navy agent, contractor of the northwestern army during the War of 1812,
                        quartermaster general, president of the 
                            Lexington
                         branch of the 
                            United States
                         bank, and chairman of the Board of Trustees of Transylvania University. Collins,
                            History of 
                                Kentucky
                            
                  , II, 196.
               
                  52 See "The Expeditions of Major-General Samuel Hopkins up the 
                            Wabash
                        , 1812 …," in the Indiana Magazine of History (
                            Bloomington
                        , 1905-XLIII (1947), 393-402. Hopkins was born in 
                     Albermarle County, Virginia
                  , on April 9, 1753. He was one of the original members of the
                        Society of 
                            Cincinnati
                        . In 1797, he settled in 
                            Kentucky
                        , and was a member of the lower branch of the state legislature from 1800 to 1806,
                        and the upper house from 1809 to 1813. In the latter year he became a member of Congress. E.
                        Merton Coulter, "Samuel Hopkins," Dictionary of American
                            Biography, IX, 218-219.
               
                  53 Samuel Smith was born in 
                     Lancaster
                                County, Pennsylvania
                  , on July 27, 1752.
                        Later the family moved to 
                            Baltimore
                        . He served with distinction in the battles of Brandywine and Fort Mifflin. In the
                        War of 1812 he served as a major general. Lossing, The Pictorial Field-Book of the
                            War of 1812, p. 947.
               
                  54 Could this be James Monroe later president of the 
                            United States
                        , who attained the rank of lieutenant colonel in the 
                            Virginia
                         militia? Daniel C. Gilman, James Monroe (
                            Boston
                        , 1883), 12.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Genl Worthington Honble Thomas Worthington U S. Senate 
                                        Washington City
                                    
                            Endorsed: Wm H. Harrison 20th Novr 1812 Ansd 28th
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Head Quarters Portage River
                           
                                    31th Jany 1813.
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        You will have heard before this reaches you of the unfortunate affair of the River
                                    Raisin. The Detachment to that place was made without my knowledge or consent
                                    & in direct opposition to my plans. As soon as I was informed of it I
                                    hastened on to the rapids & did every thing in my power to support it.
                        A Frenchman came in last night who left the River Raisin the day after the action he
                                    gives a more favorable account than that previously received He says that the
                                    greater part of the troops behaved extremely well & would have beaten off
                                    the enemy if the center of the line had not given way. The right kept its ground
                                    & never retreated—nor did they surrender until Genl Winchester
                                    was brought back with the few that were taken on the retreat. The Frenchman says
                                    that he saw 61 of the enemy dead & 49 that lay opposite our right flank
                                    taken of [f] in sleds & he heard Colo Babe55 say that
                                    their troops & Indians had suffered as severely as ours. He thinks there
                                    were about 600 of our men taken prisoners If this be so the killed & wounded
                                    (the latter being not included in the 600) will amount to 340. I was reinforced last
                                    night 
                              
                                 55 This was probably Fran&#x00E7;ois Baby. He
                                            was born within the stockade of 
                                                Detroit
                                             December 7, 1768. On September 5, 1796, at Sandwich he married
                                            Frances Abbott. They established their home on the south shore of the river
                                            opposite the city of 
                                                Detroit
                                            . He was an active citizen of 
                                                Upper Canada
                                            , served several terms in the legislature as a representative
                                            from 
                                                Kent County
                                            , as colonel of the militia, and during: the War of 1812 as
                                            adjutant general. Milo M. Quaife (ed.), The John Askin
                                            Papers (2 vols., 
                                                Detroit
                                            , 1928), I, 377.
                           
                                     with 1000 men under Genl Leftwitch56 & shall tomorrow again be at the Rapids
                        From the Peculiar Organization of the Militia under the State laws the staff officers
                                    of all the Militia that are now in service are likely to suffer—the laws
                                    of the U States give to each staff officer pay in addition to their pay in the
                                    lines. Intending that they should all be from the lines. There is however scarcely a
                                    militia staff officer which has been taken from the lines The greater part of them
                                    are privates & others selected from volunteers who joined the army. The U S
                                    pay masters refuse to allow them any thing but the additional pay—to an
                                    Adjutant, for instance ten Dollars per month & the Aids de camp 24 Dollrs I
                                    think that it would be proper to allow them what the regular officers receive in
                                    particular the aids de Camp & Brigade Majors & Inspectors to receive
                                    the Pay & emoluments of the office. The Regimental Adjutants &
                                    Quarter Masters the Extra pay added to that of Lieutenant. Unless this is done great
                                    dissatisfaction will prevail amongst the Militia. I presume that those members who
                                    come from states that have militia in the field will join you in effecting this
                                    arrangement
                        
                                    Yr. friend
                                    Willm Henry Harrison
                                
                        Honb T. Worthington [Endorsed:] Wm Harrison 31st of Jany 1813 ansd 14th
                                    Feby
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Head Quarters Franklinton
                           
                                    19th May 1813.
                                
                        Dear Sir
                        Your letter upon the subject of the flour remaining on your hands did not reach me
                                    until the moment of my leaving 
                              
                                 56 Dorothy B. Goebel, William Henry
                                                Harrison, A Political Biography (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1926), 443, refers to General B. G. Leftwich. Appleton&apos;s Cyclopaedia of American Biography (7
                                            vols., 
                                                New York
                                            , 1887-1900), III (1894), 677, gives a short account for Joel
                                            Leftwich as having been born in 
                                    Bedford
                                                    County, Virginia
                                 , in 1759. During the American Revolution he
                                            fought at 
                                                Germantown
                                             and at 
                                                Camden
                                             and was severely wounded at 
                                                Guilford
                                            . He was a member of the 
                                                Virginia
                                             legislature and for a number of years a justice of peace of 
                                                Bedford County
                                            . It also states that during the War of 1812 he served under
                                            Harrison.
                           
                                     Fort Meigs. Upon my arrival here I understood
                                    that you had left 
                                        Chillicothe
                                     for 
                                        Washington
                                     & I presumed that you had made another disposition of the
                                    flour. At any rate it is not in my power to take it upon the public
                                    account—the transportation would cost more than double what the
                                    Contractor has agreed to furnish it on on the Lakes—Indeed we have more
                                    flour than we want. Mr Orr the Contractor57 will no doubt take
                                    all you have to dispose of for internal consumption.
                        
                                    I am your friend
                                    Willm Henry Harrison
                                
                        Genl Worthin[gton] [Endorsed:] Wm H Harrison no ans
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  57 This may have been A. D. Orr of Orr and Greeley who were army
                        contractors. Goebel, William Henry Harrison, 177n.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               Indian Art of the Americas. By LeRoy H. Appleton. (
                        London
                     and 
                        New York
                    : Charles Scribner&apos;s Sons, 1950, xii, 279. Maps, bibliography, index, and
                    79 full-color plates. &#x0024;15.00.)
            In the preface the author of this handsome book follows closely the facts and theories of many
                    savants regarding the origins and migrations of the people whom 
                        Columbus
                    , mistakenly, called Indians. He holds that their stone age culture, in many ways
                    brilliant, reached its highest point in Mexico and Peru; that it spread to the Moundbuilders and the
                    Cliff Dwellers of our Southwest, and eventually further afield. However, he classifies the various
                    cultures into seven divisions of his own choosing: 1) The plains and lakes, 2) The forest and the
                    rivers, 3) The forest and the sea, 4) The mountain and mesa, 5) The valley, the peninsula, and the
                    isthmus, 6) The coast and the mountains, 7) The pampas, jungles, and islands.
            Some anthropologists may take issue with him for grouping the inhabitants of Labrador and the
                    Laurentian wasteland with the people of 
                  Florida,
                            Alabama
               , and 
                        Louisiana
                    ; the nomads of the vast interiors of 
                        Canada
                    , west of Hudson&apos;s Bay, with the fishermen of the Pacific northwest; or the
                    wild seed gatherers of 
                        California
                     with the corn planting Pueblo and the Navajo.
            In Central America the Maya culture was already declining and the power of the hated Aztec overlords
                    was apparently slipping when history began with Cortez. No one ventures to predict what the future
                    of the Indian culture might have become if a major calamity had not overtaken it. The coming of a
                    people with the advantage of a thousand years&apos; development in tools and weapons broke
                    the continuity of Indian evolution. The book does not pretend to be an anthropological or an
                    archaeological report. It is intended for a wider audience.
            The point brought out most forcefully by the author is the fact that the Indian arts are not only
                    archaeology, but a still living manifestation. (Incidentally the first exhibition in the 
                        United States
                    , of Indian Art as a living, going concern, held in 
                        New York City
                     in 1931, was at my suggestion at a meeting in 1930 in the home of Miss Amelia White in 
                        Santa Fe
                    , 
                    
                        New Mexico
                    , at which were present the hostess, her sister, Jesse Nusbaum, Kenneth Chapman, and one
                    or two others besides my wife and myself.) The Indians are still producing art in many forms, bead
                    work, pottery, rugs, jewelry, paintings, etc. Their aesthetic activity has, however, undergone an
                    evolution. They are now making things for sale with a hope for profit. Originally the Indian artist
                    produced art mostly for his own use, for his religion, for his safety or well being.
            The author brings out the fact that the Indian was and is, like all other people, a mythmaker, a
                    teller of tales; that his art is mostly ceremonial; that it has meaning and significance beyond its
                    aesthetic value; and that the beauty which it often possesses is incidental and due to his excellent
                    taste. He was not much interested in art for art&apos;s sake, but for
                    religion&apos;s sake, and for a social purpose.
            He attempted to personify the forces and the mysteries of nature by means of visible forms. He
                    attributed to the forms powers by which he tried to propitiate or control these forces or spirits.
                    He seems to have always known what the atomic physicist has just recently discovered, that
                    everything surrounding him, including rocks, trees, winds, has life and power for good or evil.
            The Indian lived in a world inhabited by benevolent and malevolent spirits or forces. So much of the
                    decoration was prayer or magic, but done with taste and skill.
            His pots, baskets, and blankets have a soul. So he leaves a "gate" in the black
                    circle painted in the bowl that the soul may escape if the vessel is broken. Rain was the major
                    concern of the Pueblo in the southwest. Forms associated with water and the growth of plants
                    decorate their pottery.
            The pictures painted on skins by the plains people were, on the other hand, mostly autobiographical,
                    historical, anecdotical, sometimes they were also protective totems. The feminine arts of bead and
                    porcupine embroidery had evolved from nature forms to near hieroglyphics intelligible to the
                    initiated, but aesthetically conceived and appropriate in decoration, line, and color.
            Appleton has logically arranged his book in consideration of the various crafts, giving periods,
                    locations where they flourished, and the reasons. He first takes up basketry as the earliest art,
                    then proceeds to the weaving of textiles. The  art of the potter
                    being one of the more permanent receives considerable attention.
            Pottery was made only by people who lived in permanent habitations. The author points out how the
                    decoration of pots evolved into stylized designs drawn from nature&apos;s forms. Sculpture
                    was practiced also among the Indians who lived in cities and villages, such as the Moundbuilders,
                    the Maya and the Aztec. The Aztec, overwhelmed with the human sacrifice complex, cursed with an
                    all-powerful priesthood degraded to the level of human butchers, carved blood-thirsty gods part
                    reptile part human in shape, and grinning skulls with evil rampant.
            In the Pacific northwest region of North America, we have an entirely different culture and
                    sculpture. The Haida had their mysterious nature spirits also, but these fisherfolk were
                    "capitalists" who cared little to impress their gods. Hence their totem poles were
                    family coats-of-arms, symbols of family pride and wealth, produced to glorify their ancestors whom
                    they conceived as a mixture of man, animal, fish, or bird, natural or supernatural. They loved form
                    and carved their wooden house posts, furniture, dishes, fishing tackle, boats, or formed their horn
                    spoons into things of beauty. The Moundbuilders carved effigy pipes in stone, sometimes with humor.
            Next come the gold-, silver-, and coppersmiths—Aztec, Inca, or Navajo—producing
                    startlingly beautiful jewelry and the artists who carved gems from jade, turquoise, emerald,
                    obsidian, onyx, and amethyst. We follow the painter leaving his records on rocks, on plastered
                    walls, on tipis, shields, sometimes on clothes, and later displaying his remarkable talent on paper
                    in the present day renaissance. The author does not forget the last of the great sacred religious
                    arts, the Navajo sand painting and its use in healing the sick.
            For the main part of the work—the explanation of the whys and wherefores of the arts of
                    the several regions—the author does a curious thing. He believes that the best way to
                    interpret what the Indian artists meant by their designs, paintings, symbols, etc., is to make use
                    of the Indians&apos; own tales, their expressions of religious beliefs, because, according
                    to the Indians, the origins of all their arts and social institutions stemmed from the workings of
                    the gods. Instead of interpreting the meaning or religious symbolism of each design  in his seventy-nine pages of colored plates, Appleton furnishes us with
                    one hundred forty pages of folk tales and sacred writ in prose and verse. In an oblique manner he
                    lets the Indian make his own explanation and interpretation. Perhaps that is the best way to have it
                    done, though some readers might have preferred a more direct approach. The author, of course, gives
                    a description of the various techniques employed.
            The seventy-nine pages of plates in color cover all phases of Indian arts and crafts, some seven
                    hundred examples in all. These are not colored photos of the objects done by the Indian artists, but
                    designs drawn and painted, presumably by the author. The objects from one hundred tribes used as
                    illustrations are well chosen and the color is in most cases satisfactory, at least sufficient to
                    give the reader a good idea of the richness of the originals.
            It is quite true that this is the first work of this type in a single volume, as the jacket
                    announces. In case that statement should be misconstrued, however, it might be well to point out
                    that a comprehensive work in two volumes Medieval American Art by
                    P&#x00E1;l Kelemen, was published in 1943, with three hundred and six pages of
                    illustrations, one thousand examples, in black and white, the actual photographs of the objects
                    themselves.
            No one knows if the Indian was in the least interested in any conscious effort to rescue his culture
                    from the oblivion of time. This book leaves the reader aware of great intensity of a sort of
                    "underground resistance movement," by which the Indian seems to be making a
                    desperate attempt to leave a permanent record of his religion and his philosophy of life, by
                    stylized design or a shorthand of realism as a substitute for a written language, that in some cases
                    approaches hieroglyphics. It might have been desirable if the author had taken the innocent reader
                    by the hand and guided him further into the actual interpretation of this strange and rich language
                    of symbols.
            
               Indian Art of the Americas is a beautiful and useful book. The publishers are to be
                    congratulated for bringing it out. It should acquaint at least some people with the magnificent
                    contribution the Indian has made to our American culture.
            University of 
                        Oklahoma
                    , O. B. Jacobson
         
         
         
            
               James Wickes Taylor; "A Choice Nook of Memory": The Diary of a 
                            Cincinnati
                         Law Clerk, 1842-1844. Edited by James Taylor Dunn. (
                        Columbus
                    : The 
                        Ohio
                     State Archaeological and Historical Society, 1950, pp. xi, 85. Notes, illustrations,
                    and frontispiece portrait of James Wickes Taylor. &#x0024;1.50.)
            When twenty-two-year-old James Wickes Taylor left his family, his father&apos;s law practice,
                    and his fiancee and exchanged the security of his native upstate 
                        New York
                     for an uncertain future in 
                        Ohio
                    , it is unlikely that even he really believed his statement that he sought a change of
                    climate to cure a throat irritation. The future lay in the west and the reports of travelers,
                    especially Harriet Martineau, of life in 
                        Cincinnati
                     led him in 1842 to that growing steamboat metropolis. For the next twelve years he
                    moved about 
                        Ohio
                    , numbering among his activities those of lawyer, newspaper editor, member of the
                    state&apos;s constitutional convention, state librarian, novelist, and historian. Removing
                    to 
                        Minnesota
                    , he engaged in a similar variety of pursuits. The last twenty-three years of his life
                    were spent as American consul in 
                        Winnipeg
                    . Taylor&apos;s useful career was a series of accurate prophecies of the destiny
                    of the westward-moving west. At his death his interest had shifted from vindicating his assertion of 
                        Canada
                    &apos;s wheat-producing potentialities (which earned him the soubriquet
                    "Crazy Saskatchewan") to exploring the possibility of an international railway to
                    Alaska.
            The range of interests that was to make his whole life stands out clearly in the pages of the journal
                    of his first two years in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Ostensibly to be read by his fiancee and "by her alone," the diary
                    portrays 
                        Cincinnati
                     in transition from frontier trading town to nineteenth century city and describes the
                    variety of its scene with remarkable effect. A single entry, for June 12, 1843, provides a striking
                    example. In it Taylor recounts in succession a hike in the hills "looking down upon an
                    immense amphitheater, perhaps destined to contain a million of people," a visit to the
                    first annual exhibit of the Horticultural Society, a street fight to arrest a drink-crazed Indian of
                    herculean strength, an enjoyable performance by a touring opera company of Bellini&apos;s
                    "Norma," and finally a production of "Henry IV," disappointing
                    because the Falstaff did not accord with his conception of the part.
            
            Other entries describe the visits of Lewis Cass and John Quincy Adams; political rallies, meetings to
                    discuss the repeal of the union of 
                        Ireland
                     and 
                        England
                    , debates on 
                        Texas
                     annexation, and soap-box speeches by various orders of religious fanatics. The ferment
                    of the age appears in description of the Wyandot&apos;s evacuation of 
                        Ohio
                    , and of an assembly of Germans bound for 
                        Missouri
                     to establish a communistic community; of the efforts of a farmer to assist the escape
                    of runaway slaves, and of a mob attack on an abolitionist&apos;s shop. Perhaps
                    Taylor&apos;s most unusual faculty is his sensitiveness to the daily scene, his
                    consciousness of accelerating change in 
                        Ohio
                     life and his reporter&apos;s interest in seeing and conveying street noises,
                    snatches of song, scraps of talk. As he falls asleep to the sound of footsteps in the summer night,
                    "carriages rattle by, and about an hour since, I heard a crier, calling a
                    &apos;lost child&apos; …."
            Since Taylor lived during most of the two years at the home of one of 
                        Cincinnati
                    &apos;s first settlers and most prominent men, he had ample opportunity to
                    become acquainted with the city&apos;s social and civic leaders. He makes frequent
                    references, often astringent and doubtless perceptive, to people, some of whom are still of interest
                    today, e.g., his friend Alfonso Taft, Nicholas Longworth and his daughters, and Jacob Burnet. In
                    this connection it is worth mentioning that the utility of the volume to the researcher would have
                    been immeasurably augmented by an index; witness Frederick A. Pottle&apos;s recently
                    published Boswell&apos;s 
                            London
                         Journal, 1762-1763.
            
            The legal historian, hoping to find in this volume details about the nineteenth century lawyer, the
                    character of his practice, his technical ability, and the direction of his influence on American
                    law, is destined to disappointment. I suspect he will wonder wistfully what was the nature of the
                    "much personal and other matter not of general interest … omitted by the
                    editor," and lament the fact that the editor took so restricted a view of the value of
                    publishing diaries. (The whole manuscript is said to be only 202 pages long and this will doubtless
                    be its only publication.) The occasional courtroom scene presided over by a famous judge, the brief
                    description of the 
                        Ohio
                     bar examination that Taylor passed easily, the allusion to the scant office preparation
                    devoted to cases, only whet the appetite for more information. Perhaps  the book&apos;s most significant insight in this respect lies
                    in Taylor&apos;s appraisal of the 
                        Cincinnati
                     bar, which he thought "composed of promiscous [sic]
                    materials. It is very numerous but there are few lawyers of a high grade. Their professional
                    character seems destitute of refinement and taste. I see few evidences of the meliorating influence
                    of literature, either in thought or diction. They are business men—good
                    practitioners—very little removed above the drudge." Whatever
                    the accuracy of this indictment, I am confident it never applied to Taylor.
            Indiana University School of Law, Val Nolan, Jr.
         
         
            
               Lewis Cass: The Last Jeffersonian. By Frank B. Woodford. (
                  New Brunswick, New
                        Jersey
               : Rutgers University Press, 1950, ix, 380. Bibliography and index.
                    &#x0024;5.00.)
            This unusually well-written biography is the story of a distinguished public career which included
                    service as 
                        Michigan
                    &apos;s territorial governor and 
                        United States
                     senator, envoy to 
                        France
                    , Secretary of War, and Secretary of State. Although the volume may be of especial
                    interest to students of 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Michigan
                     history, the author, a 
                        Detroit
                     journalist, clearly demonstrates that Cass&apos;s reputation as a figure of
                    national stature is warranted. Fortunately, Mr. Woodford always pictures an adequate (but not
                    detailed) background while focusing attention upon the statesman whom he, obviously, has long
                    admired.
            Lewis Cass received the final touches of his boyhood training at the Phillips Exeter Academy in his
                    home town. The author suggests that the qualities of leadership and many other characteristics of
                    personality of Cass were acquired at this time. At the age of eighteen Lewis Cass joined his family
                    at 
                  Marietta, Ohio
               . He studied law, was successful in practice, and in 1806 was elected
                    a member of the 
                        Ohio
                     House of Representatives without any opposition.
            The War of 1812 was a turning point in the career of Cass who served as a Colonel in the 
                        Ohio
                     militia. His brilliant record was in sharp contrast with that of General Hull (the
                    governor of the 
                        Michigan
                     Territory) whom Cass succeeded in 1813, following the American reconquest of 
                        Detroit
                    .
            
            Cass demonstrated his capacity for administration as the chief executive of the 
                        Michigan
                     Territory. Under his guidance and through his personal efforts the territory lost its
                    isolated frontier character. The new governor encouraged settlement by American farmers by proving
                    to emigrants that the territory was a true land of opportunity. Cass handled all the numerous tasks
                    incidental to his office with great efficiency. He was unusually successful in securing treaties
                    with the Indians.
            Cass&apos;s talents were rewarded by his appointment as Secretary of War in 1831. Five years
                    later he was made envoy to 
                        France
                    —an interval of six years upon which Mr. Woodford sheds much
                    light—and demonstrates that his subject was an able diplomat. After his return to the 
                        United States
                    , Cass became one of the recognized "top" political leaders. He was
                    the outstanding spokesman of the Northwest. He was a leading figure in the Democratic party which
                    nominated him for the presidency in 1848. (He was also an active candidate at the 
                        Baltimore
                     convention of 1844.) 
                        Michigan
                     sent him to the 
                        United States
                     Senate in 1845 and he was re-elected in 1849. President Buchanan made him Secretary of
                    State in 1857.
            It was impossible for any man prominent in political life to avoid making enemies over the slavery
                    issue. Cass favored any course of action that would avoid intense sectional strife. He championed
                    popular sovereignty before Douglas popularized that doctrine. He, naturally, was anathema to the
                    abolitionists. Nevertheless, Cass refused to accept the demands of southern extremists. In the
                    trying days of secession he counseled Buchanan to take a course of action against the Confederacy
                    and resigned in protest against the President&apos;s policy of vacillation.
            Although the Civil War years constituted a period of political retirement for Cass in 
                        Detroit
                    , his influence was ever present in behalf of the Union cause. He found occasion to make
                    recommendations to Seward on the Mason and Slidell case. His active political career had, however,
                    ended and he died in 1866 at the age of eighty-four.
            Mr. Woodford&apos;s presentation of this career is never that of a hero-worshiper. Some of
                    the Cass decisions are questioned and apologies for weaknesses are not offered. Cass is ever
                    portrayed as a man who had definite goals and sought the means to attain them.
            
            Professional historians may regret the failure to offer more detail on certain questions. The
                    intricacies of the 1848 presidential campaign are not presented. Some of the relationships between
                    Cass and other significant personalities might have been expanded.
            
               Lewis Cass: The Last Jeffersonian (some may object to the correctness of the
                    subtitle) is a good book. It treats interestingly of the life of a man who is deserving of a greater
                    recognition than the later ages give him.
            
               
                        Wayne
                     University, Sidney Glazer
         
         
            
               And the War Came: The North and the Secession Crisis, 1860-1861. By Kenneth M.
                    Stampp. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1950, pp. xi, 331. Illustrations, bibliography, and index.
                    &#x0024;4.50.)
            In this provocative analysis of the crystalization of Northern sentiment during the period after
                    Lincoln&apos;s election and prior to the firing on Sumter, the author attempts to show why
                    the North did not permit the South "to go in peace." He holds that although there
                    was little unity at the time of Lincoln&apos;s election the North became one in sentiment by
                    the time of Sumter. In analyzing this change of sentiment he reviews briefly the events which tended
                    to unite the free states and emphasizes the Northern leaders&apos; arguments which made the
                    cause a crusade.
            Upon Lincoln&apos;s election most business leaders and Douglas Democrats, as Professor Stampp
                    shows, favored concessions to the South as a means of preserving the Union. Republicans, on the
                    other hand, advocated calm and inactivity until Southern unionists had regained control and put down
                    secession. Later, after the Republicans realized that the Southern unionists would not get control
                    and that secession was a reality, they began debating methods of preserving the Union. They insisted
                    that secession was illegal and that Southern action was revolutionary. Therefore, they were
                    justified in using force. But what kind of force? They made much of the fact that they favored the
                    enforcement of laws rather than "coercion." If violence came, it must come from
                    the South.
            The author reviews Buchanan&apos;s policy and the North&apos;s  reaction to his timidity. The removal of troops from Moultrie to
                    Sumter, the firing on the "Star of the West," and the formation of the Confederacy
                    all, according to the author, increased Northern unity. The conflicts in Congress and the failures
                    to make any progress toward compromise increased this unanimity of sentiment. But even more
                    effective, according to Mr. Stampp, were the cogent arguments presented to convince the people that
                    disunion would bring permanent injury to them. The danger of cutting off the Northern navigation of
                    the 
                        Mississippi
                    , the loss of the Southern markets, the difficulty of enforcing the tariff because of
                    the long Southern free trade border, and the danger of repudiation of Northern debts in the South
                    were emphasized. Added to these economic arguments, he reveals, many insisted that secession would
                    destroy the subsequent effectiveness of the Union of Northern states, destroy the growing
                    nationalism, and admit to the rest of the world that the American experiment in democracy was a
                    failure. Some hoped to win and remake the South so that it would be more like the North. In short,
                    they had become crusaders who in fighting a holy cause for the North, the South, and the world were
                    also helping themselves materially.
            Mr. Stampp shows that compromise was never a real possibility because the North, including Democrats,
                    was never willing to make any significant concessions; and the South was unwilling to remain in the
                    Union unless the North acquiesced in slavery expansion and in the elimination of economic
                    inequalities.
            This is a revealing study of this controversial period which in recent years has been treated by many
                    scholars. Although he covers familiar ground and adds little that is entirely new (most of the last
                    two chapters were previously published in the Journal of Southern History), he
                    makes clearer through his exhaustive study of Northern public opinion why secession was resisted.
                    His is a sound and objective study which is based on exhaustive and careful research.
            Birmingham-Southern College, Henry T. Shanks
         
         
            
               Cracker Parties. By Horace Montgomery. (
                        Baton Rouge
                    : 
                        Louisiana
                     State University Press, 1950, pp. x, 278. Bibliography and index.
                    &#x0024;4.00.)
            
            State party battles in the South during the late antebellum period were never dull affairs.
                    Purposeful or scheming politicians, of national prominence or only local fame, zealous or
                    notoriety-hungry editors, champions of national sovereignty, defenders of state and local
                    rights—all were fierce antagonists for their several causes and some descended to cheap
                    sensationalism in their ungraceful attempts to attract the public eye. And 
                        Georgia
                    , during the whole of the period, through the intensity and vehemence of its factional
                    and party battles occupied the center of the Southern arena.
            The central theme of 
                        Georgia
                     politics during this somewhat fantastic political era was the growing influence and
                    power of the Democratic party, but the Jacksonian democratic dogmas of the 1840&apos;s
                    slowly merged, by the end of the 1850&apos;s, with the credos of John C. Calhoun. During
                    this period of change many of the old leaders of Democracy suffered the agonies of the cross and had
                    it not been for the pressing issue of slavery it is quite possible that numbers of them would have
                    attended the 
                        Chicago
                     Convention of 1860 rather than the convention which met in 
                        Charleston
                    . As it was, frustrated, uncertain of what their course of action should be, and
                    despairing of saving the old Union, they became the secessionists of 1861 and appealed to the sword.
            But during the whole period the spirit and interests of localism and local politics guided the steps
                    of many 
                        Georgia
                     leaders. When the editor of the Milledgeville (Ga.) Federal Union
                    wrote on October 31, 1854, "while the North is rallying for the battle, we are up to our
                    ears in a petty dispute as to whether some minor Post Office at the North … is filled by
                    a man who has not, some time in his past life, advocated Free Soil sentiments," he had hit
                    upon the touchstone of Southern political life during the 1850&apos;s. But he should have
                    included the statement that the South, at the same time, was just as much concerned over the
                    postmastership in Milledgeville or Natchez or 
                        Fredericksburg
                    . The average Southerner, during the entire decade, was more interested in local matters
                    than he was in the more fundamental and important differences between the North and South. The
                    campaigns for Southern political unity never attained their goal, even during the critical days of
                    1863 and 1864.
            Professor Montgomery&apos;s work admirably and succinctly summarizes the factional and party
                    battles in 
                        Georgia
                     during  the last decade when the finality of
                    secession was slowly maturing. Drawn from a great variety of sources (though the student of
                    political history would have wished for the availability of more private unpublished or published
                    sources), the author traces his chronological way without getting lost in the vast maze of trivia
                    which could easily have engulfed and trapped him. His work for 
                        Georgia
                     should be duplicated for each of the Southern states.
            
               
                        Louisiana
                     State University, Edwin Adams Davis
         
         
            
               
                  
                            South Carolina
                         Goes to War, 1860-1865. By Charles Edward Cauthen. Volume 32 in the James
                    Sprunt Studies in History and Political Science. (
                        Chapel Hill
                    : The University of 
                        North Carolina
                     Press, 1950, vii, 256. Bibliography and index. &#x0024;1.25.)
            
               
                  
                            South Carolina
                         Goes to War, 1860-1865 is a political history of the state that contributed
                    more than any other to the disunion movement. The weight of this responsibility rested heavily upon
                    the 
                        South Carolina
                     leaders. Men whose temperament and background fitted them for the role of critical
                    opposition or factious dissent were constrained to urge co-operation with the other states in the
                    Confederacy to defeat the common enemy. The spirit of localism, support of state at the expense of
                    Confederate measures, and indifference or resistance to the war regardless of the authorities
                    conducting it appeared in 
                        South Carolina
                     later and to a less degree than in some of the other states.
            The bombardment of Fort Sumter comes midway in this book. The first half, an account of how 
                        South Carolina
                     became involved in war, stresses conflicting issues and leaders. The second half, a
                    story of what the state did after the war arrived, is primarily about governmental organization and
                    operations, although politics during the war period is not ignored. One of the best chapters is on
                    the relationship of various leaders and factions to the Davis government.
            Mr. Cauthen&apos;s competent and thorough scholarship may be accepted as authoritative on the
                    various topics he treats, except perhaps for the introductory summary of the historical origins of
                    the secession movement. His chapters on the presidential election of 1860, the decision of 
                        South Carolina
                    
                     to assume leadership of the secession movement, the secession
                    convention, and the republic of 
                        South Carolina
                     are equal to previous treatments in soundness of interpretation and exceed others in
                    the completeness of narrative detail. A chapter on propaganda summarizes for the first time numerous
                    documents that were published by the secessionists in 1860. His treatment of the forts diplomacy and
                    precipitation of war is based on a critical use of both the sources and the contradictory
                    interpretations of recent historians. Although he does not commit himself explicitly, he seems to
                    lean toward the late Professor Ramsdell&apos;s interpretation of Lincoln&apos;s
                    motives for the reinforcement order. The six chapters that describe the workings of the 
                        South Carolina
                     government during the war, which include extended accounts of the executive council of
                    1862, state finances, and conscription of men and supplies, were of necessity prepared with almost
                    no assistance from previous historical writings. Not the most exciting parts of this book, they are
                    invaluable for what they tell of the activities of state governments in the Confederate War.
            University of 
                        Vermont
                    , Harold S. Schultz
         
         
            
               The Great Northwest. Second Edition, revised and enlarged. By Oscar Osburn
                    Winther. (
                        New York
                    : Alfred A. Knopf, Inc., 1950, xviii, 491, xxx. Bibliography, maps, charts,
                    illustrations, and index. Text price &#x0024;4.00. Trade price &#x0024;5.00.)
            The first edition of Professor Winther&apos;s study of The Great Northwest
                    appeared in 1947. The volume was a welcome addition to the historical literature of the West, and
                    satisfied, for many, the long-felt need for an authoritative single volume survey of Pacific
                    Northwest history incorporating the findings of recent scholarship. Although several regional
                    investigators had written satisfactory state histories and numerous excellent monographs for
                    professional publications, no person since Joseph Schafer (A History of the Pacific
                        Northwest, 1905) had attempted to tell the whole story of 
                  Oregon, Washington
               , and 
                        Idaho
                    . This book was well received by the reading public and by the historical profession, in
                    general, but some reviewers were harsh in their adverse criticism. As is usually the case with
                    reviews of general  accounts of history, the constantly recurring
                    theme was the lack of balance. The majority were convinced, perhaps rightly so, that although the
                    book was a good summary of frontier developments, it was inadequate on the last two decades of the
                    nineteenth and on the twentieth centuries. In this second edition the author has obviously evaluated
                    the remarks of his critics and friends and made revisions and additions where, in his judgment,
                    their suggestions were valid.
            With the exception of an adjustment in a single chapter title, no change appears to have been made in
                    the first part of the book on the frontier period. The chapter on the fur trade is excellent and
                    that on transportation reflects the author&apos;s sound scholarship in this field of study.
            Taking 1883, the date of the completion of the Northern Pacific Railroad, as the major turning point
                    in Northwestern development, Winther introduces the second part of his book with a discussion of
                    railroads. The chapter, as it appeared in the first edition, has been expanded to include more data
                    on the twentieth century. A discussion entitled "salvaging the wastelands" dealing
                    both with irrigation and the range cattle and sheep industry has been divided to give chapter length
                    treatment to each subject. Recent economic developments, largely summarized in a single chapter in
                    the earlier edition, now receive ample attention: a chapter on post-frontier husbandry emphasizing
                    reclamation and large scale farming operations; hydroelectric developments, private and public,
                    including a discussion of the co-operative principle in the utility field; industrial and commercial
                    trends relative to manufacturing, mining, fishing, lumbering, coastal and overseas trade, and the
                    tourist business. Professor Winther is convinced that earlier writers on the Northwest have
                    overemphasized the comparative economic importance of the concept that the region is the
                    "Gateway to the Orient." The final chapters present evidence concerning political
                    liberalism, social patterns, and the striving for cultural and literary achievement. No two people
                    will agree concerning the comparative success of the author in discussing these topics. In this
                    reviewer&apos;s opinion, the chapters on range cattle and sheep and on industry and commerce
                    are the best organized and balanced among the new sections of the book. Unusually interesting is the
                    material presented on social and cultural matters. The discourses on agriculture, irrigation,  and hydroelectricity are such to stimulate the inquisitive
                    reader to further study.
            The last half of this book could aptly be termed an introduction to the subject, and should present a
                    challenge to future students who are willing to undertake research in the field. The bibliographical
                    notes will appear high on any list of the book&apos;s contributions. A speedy reference to
                    scholarly monographs on the frontier period is provided, more up-to-date and easier of access than
                    Professor Winther&apos;s earlier bibliography of The Trans-
                            Mississippi
                         West (1942). The contrasting nature and quality of the material available on
                    the early period with that on the last sixty years provides a standing rebuke to the so-called
                    professional historians who have yet to do much digging to obtain the factual evidence essential to
                    the preparation of a truly adequate and interpretative synthesis of far Northwestern history.
            There is extensive evidence of haste in the preparation of the volume. Some discussions end abruptly,
                    transitions are not always clear, and many sentences poorly written. Proofreading was not performed
                    as dutifully as one might hope. For example, on page 401 "Ferment" becomes
                    "Fermen" in the chapter heading and 1896 is recorded as 1869. Such slips appear on
                    a dozen or more pages. However, to each author and publisher must be left the determination of the
                    comparative importance of speed and perfection.
            The second edition is a far better book than the first. Certainly the balance, deemed so essential,
                    is there whether one thinks in terms of geography or chronology. An attempt has been made to
                    consider not only political and economic trends but the social and cultural as well. Professor
                    Winther is to be warmly commended for the necessary courage to undertake an extensive investigation
                    which was too great for more pedantic historians of the region. The magnitude of the proposed study
                    was a challenge, the end result worthy of it.
            The University of 
                        Chicago
                    , W. Turrentine Jackson
         
         
            
               Migration into 
                            East Texas
                        , 1835-1860: A Study from the 
                            United States
                         Census. By Barnes F. Lathrop. (Austin: The 
                        Texas
                     State Historical Association, 1949, pp. xii, 114. 
                    Index, map, tables, and appendix. &#x0024;3.50 clothbound, &#x0024;2.00 paperbound.)
            Modern historians, particularly those of the 
                        United States
                    , must find ways to utilize efficiently the increasingly overwhelming quantities of
                    source materials available to them. If they do not succeed in this, they are doomed to an
                    unfortunate choice between publishing work based on obviously incomplete research and devoting their
                    lives to the thorough examination of microscopic topics of little or no significance. From the title
                    one might suppose that Dr. Lathrop&apos;s study would fall into the latter category, but his
                    treatment of a limited subject has enabled him to conduct an experiment in methodology that has much
                    wider applicability. Fully half of his text is devoted to the description of available federal
                    census schedules and to exposition of the research technique he has developed to cope with this
                    material. The explanation and demonstration of the method used for the exploitation of an important
                    source for migratory patterns chart a course that should be suggestive to and receive the thoughtful
                    attention of every serious student of American history.
            Recognizing the existence of a wealth of information concerning family migration buried in the raw
                    data showing the age, sex, birthplace, and family relationships of individuals listed in the census
                    schedules, Dr. Lathrop set out to devise a way to extract this information and put it in manageable
                    form. First, he adopted as a working formula the hypothesis that families moved from one place to
                    another midway between the births of two children in different places. Thus, in this
                    "child-ladder method," if one child of the family was born in 
                        Tennessee
                     and was shown as four years old in 1850 and a second child was born in 
                        Texas
                     and was two years of age, it is assumed that the family moved from 
                        Tennessee
                     to 
                        Texas
                     in 1846-1847. Dr. Lathrop is quite aware that this is not necessarily true and that his
                    formula does not produce an "historical fact" in individual cases; in fact, he
                    discusses its limitations and pitfalls at much greater length than is possible here. The point is
                    that by applying such an unorthodox method in historical research, and by borrowing further from the
                    statistician&apos;s manual in using calculated compensatory factors, it is possible to
                    obtain significant information which is substantially accurate from sources which would otherwise
                    remain unused.
            
            If some of our more conventional (and less imaginative) scholars raise their eyebrows at that, they
                    will be even more critical when they discover that the present study is based on a sampling process
                    from beginning to end. The child-ladder method can of necessity be applied only to a comparatively
                    small portion of the listed families (Dr. Lathrop&apos;s experience indicates about
                    two-fifths), and it is limited chronologically by the availability of the census schedules only from
                    1850 through 1880. These are restrictions imposed by the source, but Dr. Lathrop has further
                    confined his analysis to the censuses of 1850 and 1860 and to approximately half of the counties in
                    the part of 
                        Texas
                     east of the Trinity River. No one who has attempted any work of this kind could
                    possibly find fault with such practical labor-saving limitations, especially in an exploratory
                    venture such as this. One might prefer a solid block of counties within a smaller area instead of
                    scattered counties throughout 
                        East Texas
                    , but the author&apos;s explanation of his basis of selection should not be
                    challenged without investigation comparable to his own. Final resolution of the question is to be
                    found in extension of the project as far as possible in both time and area, perhaps with the aid of
                    tabulating machines.
            The method used on the sample chosen has produced more than enough new information on migration into 
                        East Texas
                     to justify the experiment and to encourage others to extend its coverage. Much of the
                    data obtained is presented in tables and charts. These are accompanied by a substantial explanatory
                    account of the "Origins of the Immigrants," with shorter chapters on
                    "Rates of Arrival" and "Sidelights." The text is concise and
                    clearly written, but both it and the graphic material require careful study. Those who give them
                    this will be well rewarded whether the volume is read for information about migration or, as
                    suggested above, for its broader implications.
            
               
                        Washington
                    , D. C., Jesse S. Douglas
         
         
            
               Managers in Distress: The 
                            St. Louis
                         Stage, 1840-1844. By William G. B. Carson. (
                        St. Louis
                    : 
                        St. Louis
                     Historical Documents Foundation, 1949, xv, 329. Illustrations, appendix, bibliography,
                    and index. &#x0024;6.00.)
            
            William B. Wood, one of the leading 
                        Philadelphia
                     theatre managers in his autobiography (1854) writes, "But however bright may
                    be the hours of sunshine which the successful actor enjoys, the life of the manager is one of
                    continued storms and clouds." Managers in Distress, Professor
                    Carson&apos;s latest contribution to regional theatre history, offers sufficient evidence of
                    the truth of this statement in his presentation of the trials of Noah M. Ludlow and Solomon F. Smith
                    as managers of the 
                        St. Louis
                     Theatre during the five difficult years between 1840 and 1844.
            Professor Carson, Secretary of the 
                        Missouri
                     Historical Society and Professor of English at 
                        Washington
                     University has the historian&apos;s ability to recreate vividly the past as
                    well as to imbue the volume with his own personal and pervasive enthusiasm and appreciation of the
                    value of the theatre as an integral part of the social and cultural life of a community.
                    Furthermore, he has avoided the pitfall of many theatre historians who limit themselves only to a
                    recital of dates of performances or to anecdotes based on an actor&apos;s experiences on or
                    off the stage. The history of the theatre of any specific period or region must be interpreted in
                    the light of the social conditions of the day. John Mason Brown reminds us that the theatre may lose
                    "its flesh and blood, its colors and shadows, its hazards and its expectancy" in
                    the pages of a book. From the contemporary newspaper reports, letters, diaries, and account books
                    the author has heeded Mr. Brown&apos;s warning and has created a lively and sympathetic
                    account of the 
                        St. Louis
                     stage from 1840 to 1844.
            
               Managers in Distress serves as an excellent example of the importance of theatre
                    history as a barometer reflecting the spirit of the times. The Panic of 1837 and the hard times
                    which followed were the primary causes for the trials of the Messrs. Ludlow and Smith in their
                    endeavor to maintain the reputation of 
                        St. Louis
                     as the theatrical capital of the West. The flooding of the country with specie payment
                    had its effect directly on the box office of the theatre and indirectly on the national spirit of
                    the frontier community which comprised the theatre audience. The managers had to exercise extreme
                    care in the selection of plays for an audience whose spirits were somewhat
                    "bluish." These two theatrically wise gentlemen however were equal to the task.
            Noah Ludlow (1795-1896) has been described as an introvert, 
                    stiff and formal in manner, often despondently unhappy, inclined to self-pity and a fine actor of
                    high comedy while Solomon F. Smith (1801-1869) was known as an extrovert, abounding in energy,
                    admired by his colleagues and a man of versatile talent including proficiency as a lawyer, an actor
                    and a businessman. The dissimilar natures of these two men caused many stormy moments in their
                    partnership which began in 1840 and finally ended in violent disagreement in 1851. Still, they had
                    one common bond—a sincere love and profound respect for their profession. In a community
                    characterized by a strong religious prejudice toward the theatre, Carson points out: "In
                    the theatre they saw, not merely a means of livelihood nor even just a great art, but also a potent
                    instrument for the public good, a powerful teacher of morality and virtue …. They saw to
                    it that the plays they presented were, even by nineteenth century standards eminently proper; and
                    they, furthermore did their utmost to make the members of their companies conform to a reputable
                    pattern of behavior."
            As a result of this attitude, Ludlow and Smith loom large not only in the theatrical picture of 
                        St. Louis
                     but also in 
                  Mobile, New Orleans
               , and 
                        Cincinnati
                     where they were connected with theatrical companies.
            The distressing condition of the theatre in 
                        St. Louis
                     during this period was similar to the condition of theatres in the larger eastern
                    cities. But even though the money was scarce and the spirit of the people low, Smith and Ludlow
                    during the ten seasons of this period presented 425 plays. They offered light comedy, spectacles,
                    ballets, melodramas, midgets, child actors, lectures and finally in 1844 such outstanding
                    "stars" as William Macready, foremost English actor of the day and Edwin Forrest,
                    already established as America&apos;s leading actor.
            In 1841, they reduced the admission prices of the 
                        St. Louis
                     Theatre from 75¢ to 50¢ in the dress circle and parquette,
                    50¢ to 30¢ in the second tier while the gallery seats remained at
                    25¢. In 1843, they were forced to sell the theatre which they had managed since 1837 and
                    then proceeded to pay &#x0024;3,000 annual rental to the new owner. They utilized every
                    possible type of entertainment often resorting to the newspaper headlines for inspiration.
            
            During the presidential campaign of 1840, they offered The Parole of Honor, or The Youthful Days of Harrison. When four negroes were executed in July, 1841, they
                    added the Hanging scene from George Barnwell to their evening&apos;s
                    program. Mrs. Inchbald&apos;s farce, Animal Magnetism, was offered when
                    hypnotism as an anaesthetic was in vogue and when a local father shot his daughter&apos;s
                    seducer in January, 1844, Ludlow scheduled a performance of the melodrama, Seduction, or Father and Daughter. Even as elaborate a production as The Last Days of Pompeii with new music and new scenery could not compete with the
                    newspaper columns of recrimination on the subject of Tyler&apos;s second Bank Bill veto and
                    the offering received only a brief notice in the local newspaper.
            Still, considering the distance of 
                        St. Louis
                     from the eastern theatrical centers and the difficulties of travel, one can readily
                    appreciate the creditable contribution of Ludlow and Smith to the cultural and social life of the
                    city. In addition to Macready and Forrest, they brought other well-known theatrical figures such as
                    James Henry Hackett, Henry Placide and John Brougham. Their local acting company was unusually
                    strong and offered an amazingly varied repertory of plays. An examination of the Appendix listing
                    the performances of individual plays indicates that 
                        St. Louis
                     theatre audiences saw the best English dramas from Elizabethan times to the early
                    nineteenth century as well as the most popular efforts of native playwrights. Although Shakespeare
                    was the most popular playwright in 
                        St. Louis
                    , audiences applauded their own native poetic drama as testified by the popularity of
                        Tortesa the Usurer by N. P. Willis. Dan Marble and Josh Silsbee, both noted
                    for their Yankee characters, appeared in such popular favorites as The Forest Rose, The
                        Vermonter, and The Gamecock of the Wilderness.
            
            As the 1844 theatre season drew to a close, Carson notes that the remaining seven years of the
                    Ludlow-Smith partnership were happier and more prosperous than the first seven.
            This volume adds another important chapter in the growing history of native regional theatre. Since
                    nineteenth century American theatre was not limited to the East, historians in the Midwest, South
                    and Far West will find ample ground for examination as well as re-examination in this particular
                    field. The December, 1949, issue of the Educational  Theatre Journal under the title, "American Theatre History: A Geographical
                    Index," lists regional theatre studies according to states and cities. Only two studies are
                    listed for the state of Indiana. One study deals with the history of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     Theatre from 1875 to 1890 and the other covers the professional theatre history of 
                        South Bend
                    . The task, however, is not an easy one. Despite Professor Carson&apos;s
                    excellent theatrical detective work, he notes in a reference to the famous Jefferson acting family
                    that "no one knows to this day just where their travels took this family, but the
                    information probably lies hidden away awaiting only the searching of the curious."
            Professor Carson has done an admirable service for the city of 
                        St. Louis
                    . It now remains for other historians to do the same for their respective communities.
            University of 
                        Florida
                    , Delwin B. Dusenbury
         
         
            
               The Stark County Story, Volume I. By Edward Thornton Heald.
                            (
                  Canton, Ohio
               : The Stark County Historical Society, 1949, pp. xvi, 688.
                    Illustrations, maps, bibliography and index. &#x0024;10.00.)
            This is an account of the cities, towns and villages of 
                  Stark
                        County, Ohio
                (the larger
                    communities being Canton, Massillon and Alliance) from 1805 to 1874, and is the direct outgrowth of
                    successive Sunday afternoon radio broadcasts, the script for which was prepared by Edward Thornton
                    Heald, secretary-treasurer of The Stark County Historical Society. Planned as the beginning of a
                    series, the volume includes the first seventy-six scripts, covering the initial eighteen months of
                    the broadcasts. Much care was taken in the preparation of the scripts, as available printed and
                    manuscript material was consulted, the various localities were visited, and numerous persons were
                    interviewed in many cases. Efforts were earnestly made to check the data for accuracy and to enrich
                    the presentations by the use of diaries, newspapers, and even church, school, and business records.
            The stories of the cities, towns, and villages are introduced in the chronological order in which the
                    communities were originally laid out, with additional material being presented for the more
                    important localities as the succeeding decades are given appropriate consideration.
            
            Much expense was involved in the preparation for this volume of photostats of the original plats of
                    each of the settlements as they were officially recorded during the period up to 1874, pictures of
                    each church known to have been organized up to that year, as well as a wide variety of illustrations
                    typifying the varying trends of the times.
            Thus, the material is printed so as to serve as a useful book of reference. Extensive bibliographical
                    notes and a rather adequate index are included. Within the limits of the purposes for which the work
                    is intended, a very commendable result has been achieved.
            The 
                        Ohio
                     State University, Francis P. Weisenburger
         
         
            
               Better Known as Johnny Appleseed. By Mabel Leigh Hunt. (
                        Philadelphia
                     and 
                        New York
                    : J. B. Lippincott Company, 1950, pp. xii, 212. Illustrations, map, and acknowledgments.
                    &#x0024;2.50.)
            "Was Johnny Appleseed a Real Person?"
            The question is still being asked, but one is apt to open a new book on the subject, at this time,
                    with some indifference. The whimsical fabric of the Appleseed legend promises to be too frail to
                    hold out through two hundred and nine pages—particularly in this critical hour when
                    newspapers and radio alike claim our undivided attention with news from the Korean front. The story
                    of a legendary saint in a tattered coffee sack, sowing seeds of brotherly love in the virgin
                    clearings of the American wilderness, might easily be overlooked for more realistic reading.
            Yet, being the omnivorous book-hungry people that we are, it is not likely that a book with as
                    attractive a format as Mabel Leigh Hunt&apos;s Better Known as Johnny
                    Appleseed, will be passed up. Nor will one be disappointed in sampling its fruit: Fall Wine;
                    the Front Door; the Favorite; the Nonesuch; the Sweet Bough; the Fallawater and the
                    Seek-No-Further—all as delectable to the ear as they were to the tongue of our
                    fruit-hungry ancestors.
            James Daughtery&apos;s illustrations clothe Johnny in virile masculinity (a pleasing quality
                    even for a saint) and one wishes there were more of them. Daughtery&apos;s pencil is apt at
                    pioneer characterization as the illustrations of his own work of Daniel Boone have
                    proven.
            
            In the Foreword Louis Bromfield says that the legend that has been growing for more than a century
                    around the character of this humble man is not very different from that of Saint Francis of Assissi.
                    Too many of us live divorced and isolated from Johnny&apos;s world—the natural
                    world around us—he claims. But Johnny moves among us still, along the old water courses
                    in 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana, and in the deserted apple orchards, a friendly ghost watching over us with
                    the wistfulness of a gentle benefactor.
            Miss Hunt, one feels, has known and loved Johnny Apple-seed for longer time than it has taken her to
                    put his story on paper. She has handled her material with artistry and good taste, against a
                    backdrop of American Colonial history. "Was Johnny Appleseed a real person?" She
                    asks and answers the question that Doubting Thomases still ask. "Assuredly yes,"
                    she says, and in the pages that follow the kindly apple missionary emerges flesh and blood from the
                    mists of partial obscurity. The historical facts of his remarkable life have been carefully gleaned
                    from old county histories and records, from deeds and private documents, and from legends and
                    personal reminiscences. The author&apos;s sincerity and good sense preserves the biography
                    from maudlin moodiness.
            The book falls nicely into three parts: Seed; Fruit; and Harvest—each chapter in the
                    division representing a year, or a period of years, in Chapman&apos;s life.
            John Chapman was born the 26th day of September in the year 1774 in 
                  Leominster, Massachusetts
               , of good, but common parentage. His father, Nathaniel Chapman,
                    was a small farmer, one of the Bay Colony&apos;s famed militiamen. His mother was Elizabeth
                    Simonds Chapman who died before the ink was hardly dry on the Declaration of
                    Independence— leaving a baby brother to young Johnny, and an older sister, Elizabeth, to
                    comfort him in her childish way.
            Young Nathaniel Chapman, widower with three small children, did what any good American would have
                    done in that day; he re-enlisted with the Continental Army for three years as Captain of a company
                    of wheelwrights, and the children were left to the care of relatives. Five years later he married
                    again, giving Johnny a pretty, young Lucy Cooley as a mother. The pioneer adage that stepmothers
                    were better than no mothers proved doubly true in this case. Lucy Cooley Chapman took the spindling
                    Johnny under her sympathetic  young wing until he was old enough
                    to "shift" for himself.
            Johnny was thirteen when the Ordinance of 1787 defined the boundaries and laws of the great Northwest
                    Territory. There is nothing to show that the boy had more than a passing interest in the vast saddle
                    of wilderness country that lay back of the mountains between the Great Lakes and the two great
                        American rivers, the 
                        Mississippi
                     and the 
                        Ohio
                    . For his was the menial task then of peddling small, handmade wooden-wares of his
                    father&apos;s through the countryside. Perhaps he awakened then to the pleasures of youthful
                    independence in the long walks alone, adjusting his peddler&apos;s pack with an eye for the
                    beauty of the "apple blow" on the hillside orchards along the
                        Connecticut River!
            Some time after 1790, Miss Hunt points out, young John Chapman was apprenticed to an orchardist in
                    the region. He learned how to sow, to plant, to reset and distribute the slim apple switches to the
                    farmers thereabouts. But the "vision" or "call" that came to
                    this plain lad, not yet out of his teens, can not be set down, as an historical fact or incident as
                    was John Wesley&apos;s strange "heart warming" experience in
                    Alder-gate—or Daniel Boone&apos;s compelling hankering for pushing across the 
                        Kentucky
                     mountains to the lonely places beyond— from his home on the Yadkin.
            Miss Hunt&apos;s treatment of the legends that fill in so much of Johnny&apos;s story
                    (when records fail) is charmingly done in Part Two of her book. In nine chapters, each titled with
                    the name of one of Johnny&apos;s beloved apples, she has compounded the meat and flavor of
                    American folk tale in incidents related to the setting of the Northwest. Here is the soldier and
                    preacher; the muscular, clean limbed settler in buckskin and his wife in linsey woolsey; here is
                    Granny and her memories of back home; and Ippy, Jervis Cutler&apos;s dog (Jervis, son of
                    Manasseh, late of 
                        Massachusetts
                    ) Marietta bound! Here is Kilbuck, White Eyes and Captain Pipe, and a lovesick boy Zack
                    Miller. Woodsmen, hunters, statesmen, landseekers all (good and indifferent) and another Chapman
                    (Wilbur) who had a floating theatre on the 
                        Ohio
                    . Kin of Johnny&apos;s? Everyone was Johnny&apos;s kin when you knew
                    Johnny. His apple trees became the pioneer symbol for home, as the hearth stone became its heart,
                    while the frontier pushed beyond the Muskingum,  beyond the
                    Miami, north and west to the headwaters of the 
                        Wabash
                    —and beyond!
            Back and forth like a shuttle Johnny went—barefoot and bareheaded (except for a cast off
                    hat or the proverbial battered mushpan) but not barehanded. Apple seedlings, and Biblical tracts,
                    and small trinkets for the children, and his own fund of knowledge of God and the Universe. From 
                        Pittsburgh
                     to the 
                        Wabash
                    , by way of the Licking, and 
                  Mansfield,
                            Ohio
               , where he had a cabin in 1814, then
                    following the old Indian trails from the Auglaize to the Maumee he reached 
                        Fort Wayne
                    . Here at the "Meeting of Rivers" he had friends. Here he felt the
                    steady pulse beat of western emigration— the mighty course of empire surging through the
                    natural arteries of travel into the heart of the Northwest! Here, on the hearth of William Worth he
                    died, in 1845!
            For nearly half a century he had served his brothers in an unique enterprise—expecting
                    neither gain, nor thanks. All that he had asked was a place to plant his precious apple-seed, and
                    the privilege of extolling His Maker in "news fresh from Heaven".
            There are stories that he planted along the 
                        Wabash
                     to its mouth—and into 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Iowa
                    ! There are stories and stories… A few picture him as a dear simpleton
                    "touched" by his religion and the fantasy of an apple-flowering Wilderness. Some
                    picture as above the average in intelligence and common sense citing the host of prominent people
                    who were his friends, among them judges, and statesmen. Miss Hunt has given us the most acceptable
                    version of this eccentric character. She has made him humble, loveable, and kind. And she has given
                    him the stature of a man.
            
               
                        Newburgh
                    , Indiana, Adah Jackson
         
         
         
            Editor's Page
            The spring meeting of the Indiana Historical Society will be held at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana, May 25, 1951. Glenn A. Black, lecturer in anthropology at Indiana University,
                    will read a paper on "The Prehistory of the Wabash Valley."
                    For more details about the meeting consult forthcoming issues of the Indiana History
                        Bulletin.
            
            An Indiana History Workshop will be conducted at Spring Mill State Park, April 8 to 11, under the
                    sponsorship of the Historical Bureau, the State Library, and the State Conservation Department.
                    Lectures and discussion on writing local history, activating local historical societies, pursuing
                    genealogical research, and improving local museums are on the program for the morning sessions. The
                    afternoons will be devoted to excursions and recreation. In the evening there will be a social hour
                    and music or an outside speaker.
            The first meeting of the Indiana Indian Relic Collectors Society will be held on Sunday, March 18
                    from 10:00 A.M. to 3:00 P.M. in the home of Earl and Emily Townsend, 23 Kenmore Road, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Indiana. Anyone interested in Indian Relics is cordially invited to attend this
                    meeting. Dues will be one dollar per year. For further information on this organization write to
                    Cameron Parks, Garrett High School, Garrett, Indiana.
            The forty-fourth annual meeting of the Mississippi Valley Historical Association
                    will convene April 19-21 at the Netherlands-Plaza Hotel, 
                  Cincinnati, Ohio
               . It is
                    hoped that Indiana will be well represented at this meeting.
            Miss Dorothy Woodward of the University of 
                        New Mexico
                     is working on a biography of the late Bishop Joseph C. Talbot, Episcopal bishop of
                    Indiana, who died January 15, 1883, and will be grateful to know of materials, letters, etc.,
                    concerning the bishop. Anyone having materials which may be of assistance please write to Miss
                    Woodward at the University of 
                  New Mexico, Albuquerque, New
                Mexico
               .
         
         
         
            Genealogy
            A Minute Book for the Christian Church on Busseron Creek
            Record of the Christian Church at 
                        Palmers Prairie
                        Sullivan County
                    , Indiana. 1827? 1831?
            Contributed by Chloe Siner Morgan∗
            
            Towards the close of the first third of the nineteenth century the teachings of Alexander Campbell
                    and his father, Thomas, who had come over to 
                        Pennsylvania
                     from 
                        Scotland
                     some twenty years earlier, resulted in the organization of a distinct and separate
                    church denomination, which 
                        Campbell
                    &apos;s followers in 1830 chose to call The Christian Church. This was another
                    evidence of the continuation of the Reformation, the search for the true original manner of worship.
                    The story of this evolution, which has been most ably presented in various volumes by church
                    historians, should be consulted for information too lengthy to be included in these pages. Let it be
                    sufficient to say that this evidence of 
                        Campbell
                    &apos;s teachings found immediately materialization in southern Indiana, among
                    the pioneer settlers who were for the most part second to sixth generation Americans from 
                        Virginia
                    , the Carolinas, and 
                        Georgia
                    , as well as from eastern 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        New Jersey
                    .
            The little groups of homeseekers who laboriously pushed their way into that part of 
                        Knox County
                     which in 1816 and 1818 became respectively designated Sullivan and Vigo had come by way
                    of 
                        Kentucky
                     or 
                        Tennessee
                     or from across the Miami bottoms in 
                        Ohio
                    . Often families had divided along the way, older brothers or parents stopping and the
                    younger ones traveling farther into the wilderness. Thus there continued through the first
                    generation after the progression the tendency to keep in touch with the relatives left behind. And
                    as for the county lines of Sullivan and Vigo, as well as 
                        Knox
                    , they had no reality. There was much visiting back and 
                  &#x2217; Mrs. Chloe Siner Morgan, a resident of 
                                Bloomington
                            , is the wife of the late Dr. William Thomas Morgan, professor of European
                            history at Indiana University, 1919-1946, with whom she collaborated in the five volume Bibliography of British History, 1700-1715; with Special Reference to the Reign
                                of Queen Anne (1934-1942). She was one time assistant professor of English in 
                                Iowa
                             State Teachers College, and lecturer in English in the Ecole Normale des
                            Institutrices, 
                        Blois, France
                     .
               
                     forth, and even much moving back and forth. Distinctly Vigo
                    families had in many instances taken first root in Sullivan, and vice versa.
            As to ancestral nativity the earliest settlers in both counties were generally English, Scots, or
                    Scots Irish (Scots who had been living in 
                        Ireland
                     for generations), Irish, and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Dutch first settlers in 
                        Germantown
                     (1683-1710) who had intermarried with English families from 
                  New York, New
                    Jersey
               , and 
                        New England
                    , and a few whose names indicated German origin. There was a sprinkling of those with
                    Anglicized French names dating from the invasion of the British Isles by William the Conqueror with
                    his French barons. A few there were who could have traced their ancestry to the Mayflower or to a 
                        New England
                     provincial governor, or even to the early nobility of Great Britain, had they possessed
                    the time, the inclination, or the facilities to determine such connections. Some families handed
                    down oral traditions of estates in "the Old Country" or of service in the recent
                    American Revolution and its aftermath, the short flurry of 1812.
            As for their religious heritage, there were those from Church of 
                        England
                     families, Baptists, Presbyterians, and others who had come to America as Quakers but
                    through intermarriage had changed to Presbyterians, then Baptists and Primitive Baptist. Here in the
                    wilderness they wanted a church as soon as possible. The earliest church in the community of which
                    Palmers Prairie in 
                        Sullivan County
                     was a part was a Baptist (Missionary) instituted in 1821 on the neighboring prairie
                    named for the William Curry family, the first to build a cabin there. When this little church
                    (Little Flock, a mile southwest of 
                        Shelburn
                    ) celebrated its centennial, the claim was made that it was the oldest church in the
                    county. Whether or not the original Palmers Prairie Church situated a few miles from Busseron Creek,
                    was the first Christian church in the county can be determined only if other churches examine their
                    records, and publish them. At any rate the early membership list includes persons from the region of
                    Caledonia, Cass, and Shakers Prairie (between Oaktown and 
                        Carlisle
                    ), and the place where Sullivan was later established.
            Indeed, this little record book of Palmers Prairie offers certain date problems in connection with
                    that church&apos;s establishmen. An examination of the two title pages encourages  speculation. An examination of the inside pages discloses
                    conflicting dates. One can only arrive at an approximate date; for this is undoubtedly not the first
                    record ever kept.
            Below the carefully printed first page title appears in a less firm hand a date which might be 1837,
                    1857, or—more likely—1831. But it might be 1859, the date that is found near
                    the top of the first membership list, after the names of Elders John Maxwell and Thomas Nesbit!
                    Then, below that date at the right hand corner of the page are the words: "Organized Jan.
                    17 183 [MS torn]."
            The second title page only adds to the confusion. Above the title, prominently placed in the middle
                    of the space, is the unmistakable date, 1827. But across the top of the figures are two thin crossed
                    curved lines. Can this be intended as a deletion or as a pen flourish by way of decoration?
            On the seventh page from the back of the book, the puzzle becomes more intricate. Here one finds an
                    attempt towards making a summary of the original church officers. This attempted date results in:
                    "Church organized in 1831. (1827)-"
            We are still in the dark; but considering the 1830 separation of the Christian church from the
                    Baptist Association, we are inclined to favor the date, 1831. Perhaps the discovery of the deed for
                    the land upon which the old church and its cemetery stands, or a time-yellowed letter in a family
                    Bible may sometime disclose the truth. Whatever the true date may be, this little list of names
                    which includes those of individuals remembered to be living there even before 1831, should offer
                    considerable stimulus towards genealogical research.
            There are certain features within the book which point towards a still earlier membership list,
                    whether ever recorded or not. Among internal evidences is the absence of the names of several
                    persons contemporaneous with the founding of the church. Indeed, comparatively few of the persons of
                    mature years living in the community in 1830 seem to be listed in these pages. Among these few are
                    the Elders John Maxwell and his wife, Thomas Nesbit, and Rebecca Benefield, who seems to be the
                    mother of G. W., Willis, John, Sally McGrew, Susan Liston, and Mary. Possibly there are many more.
                    One name which one might expect to find is that of Andrew McGarvey, who according to family
                    tradition and that of William G. McClannahan, sexton for almost a generation  during the middle period, was the first person buried in Palmers
                    Prairie Cemetery. One fails to find either his name or that of his wife, Nancy Ellen, though she
                    long survived him and is likely buried in the Old Shake Cemetery near Paxton, the community of her
                    daughter, Nellie (Mrs. Whita-ker Purcell). One son of this couple, Ezekiel (b. January 1, 1811; d.
                    April 6, 1877), who with his second wife, Martha Lou Rainey (Borders McKinley) and his third wife,
                    Mary Ann Raines, are recorded in this book, is buried in this churchyard.
            This family is said to have come from 
                        Ireland
                     about 1819 and settled first on Turkey Creek between 
                        Lexington
                     and 
                  Louisville, Kentucky
               . The eldest son of Andrew, Samuel, lived there until
                    the end of the Civil War, then moved to Honey Creek Hill, now known as Alandale, at the southern
                    edge of Harrison Prairie and a few miles south of 
                        Terre Haute
                    . Both he and his wife are buried in the Hull Cemetery. Two other sons, John and James,
                    remained in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Andrew and his wife and the two youngest children, after a few years in 
                        Kentucky
                     came to Palmers Prairie before the church was built there. They assisted in operating a
                    cooperative store and distillery on the ground where the church now stands, bearing their share of
                    the flatboat building and operating to and from 
                        New Orleans
                     in the store&apos;s interest. They owned several farms on Palmers Prairie where
                    they manufactured brick and tile, and another a few miles southeast of 
                        Shelburn
                    . Ezekiel once owned the land where Sullivan Courthouse now stands. Through
                    Andrew&apos;s and Nancy Ellen&apos;s brothers and sisters Ezekiel was a first cousin
                    to Russell McKinley of Sullivan, for whose daughter the hospital is named, and to the Beard brothers
                    and sisters: Felix, John, Stephen, and their sister, Mrs. Edward Roll of 
                        Sullivan
                     and 
                        Vigo
                     counties, as well as to the Jane (Russell) Hill of this record, and her brother Spencer
                    Russell, all of whom had come from 
                        Kentucky
                    . Another cousin was the second wife of Joseph William Wolfe, early Christian preacher,
                    and lawyer from 1860, and Circuit Court clerk of Sullivan.
            We cannot be certain about the generation of the earliest Raines name on the record, since the use of
                    senior and junior here makes for confusion. William I (d. June 7, 1873), a pensioner of the War of
                    1812, married "Peggy Damson," really Margaret Dampster, in 1817, according to the
                    Mercer  County Marriage Records at 
                  Harrodsburg, Kentucky
               . They were living at 
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               , shortly
                    before their migration to Palmers Prairie when their fourth child, Mary Ann (b. February 14, 1826)
                    was three months old. This William, whose middle name was Pendleton, had a son William, whose son
                    William is still living in 
                        Sullivan County
                    . All these William Raines&apos;s were members of Palmer Prairie Church. William
                    Raines I had also a son Allen, an uncle Allen who moved to 
                        Illinois
                    , and a brother Allen (b. March 20, 1797; m. Rosanna Parker, September 6, 1821, in
                            
                  Mercer County, Kentucky
               ; d. April 20, 1873). The names of several of the children of
                    this couple appear on the early pages of this record. The son William Mereday handed down to his
                    grandson Bert M. of 
                        Terre Haute
                     the almost unique name, Mereday. This son William Mereday and his sister, Elizabeth
                    Ferree, were ever closely associated with the Prairie and its church. Other sons and daughters left
                    the community. After the death of his wife, Rosanna, Allen moved in the early sixties to
                            
                  Sedalia, Missouri
               , with his son Cornelius. There were other Raines brothers:
                    James, reputedly a Revolutionary soldier and never married, and Adam who had no children. A sister,
                    Elizabeth, was the second wife of William Patton and had two daughters. Another, probably Mary,
                    married a Hawkins. Still another, Sally, married George Plough, according to the Mercer County
                    records, June 5, 1819. This George Plough was one of the old-fashioned "bleeding
                    doctors" of the community. These were the parents of Dr. George Plough, a graduate of Rush
                    Medical College, who practiced medicine at Hymera until he was ninety.
            Possibly some of the Raines brothers and sisters remained in 
                        Kentucky
                     or even in 
                        Tennessee
                     or possibly 
                        Virginia
                    , the colony to which this southern Raines line came from 
                        England
                     at a very early period. Some light upon the origin and history of the first years of
                    this 
                        Virginia
                     line and its branch that went into 
                        Georgia
                     is shed by a 
                        Georgia
                     branch descendant, Stella Pickett Hardy, in her Colonial Families of the
                        Southern States of America (
                        New York
                    , 1911). Much has been written about Captain John Raines who, under General James
                    Robertson, assisted towards the end of the American Revolution in opening up 
                        Tennessee
                     and 
                        Kentucky
                    . No one, however, has attempted to discover the thread of relationship which likely
                    existed between Captain John and the Mereday  Raines of this 
                        Tennessee
                     expedition with the Harrodsburg Raines brothers and sisters who in 1826 and somewhat
                    later moved into Palmers Prairie.
            Similar digressions might be made in the discussion of others of the early settlers of Palmers
                    Prairie, whose names, it seems, might be expected to appear on these minutes, if they are indeed the
                    earliest minutes. We must make due consideration, of course, to our lack of knowledge of many of
                    these families and to the known fact that the early families were divided within themselves as to
                    denominational allegiance. We must take into consideration, also, the possibility that some of the
                    earliest generation there were Presbyterian or Anglican and still held to these faiths, despite the
                    absence of these church homes in the region.
            The deciding evidence against these minutes as a first list of members lies not so much in the
                    omissions as in the inclusions. Some of the names which appear on the first pages of this book are
                    recognized as those who were in their infancy when the church was founded. Some were not then even
                    living in that part of Indiana or in Indiana at all. Among these names should be pointed out those
                    of Susan Ann (Benefield) Liston (b. February 5, 1824, in 
                        Lawrence County
                    , Indiana, to William and Rebecca (Bailey) Benefield) and her husband, Edmund (b.
                    December 7, 1814, to William and Nancy (Patton) Liston). Another such name is that of Susan
                    Ann&apos;s sister-in-law, Elizabeth Jane (McGrew) Benefield (Mrs. G. W.) who was born in 
                        Sullivan County
                    , August 14, 1837, to Felix G. McGrew and his wife, Julia Ann Pound.
            Another factor which makes more intricate this maze is that caused by the repetitions of names in the
                    several revisions of the record; yet all this seems to be sufficient data to place this record as
                    one belonging to about 1859, the date which appears after the names of Elders John Maxwell and
                    Thomas Nesbit. If any whose ancestors appear in this list will search their family Bible records and
                    their old deeds and marriage certificates, much more light may be shed upon this early Christian
                    church community of fertile meadows through which flows the creek which rises in the vicinity of
                    Blackhawk and empties its waters into the 
                        Wabash
                     in the vicinity of Oaktown, that creek which memorializes Major Frangois R. Busseron
                    who assisted Colonel George Rogers Clark in the taking of 
                        Vincennes
                     (Fort Sackville).
            
            Those who would seek out this little white church and its interesting cemetery, possibly a last
                    resting place as early as 1822, will have little difficulty in finding it. Palmers Prairie is one of
                    a series of small prairies which dot the Wabash Valley from 
                        Vincennes
                     to 
                        Terre Haute
                    . This particular prairie about which twines the once exuberant Busseron and its
                    tributaries, Stonequarry and "Kittle" Creek, is situated at the near center of a
                    triangle of which 
                        Shelburn
                     (laid out in 1855), Sullivan (incorporated in 1853), and Caledonia are the points. The
                    church is closer to 
                        Shelburn
                     than to Sullivan, and the nearest group of houses is the little coal town, Glen-dora,
                    which had its origin shortly after 1903 when the deep coal veins began to be exploited by outside
                    interests.
            
               John Maxwell
               Mary M. Maxwell
               Thomas Nesbit
               Elisabeth Nesbit
               Levi Maxwell
               Lidia Maxwell
               Jackson Rich
               Sally A. Rich
               Jane Hill
               Edmund Liston
               Susan A. Liston
               Talton Hawkins
               Mary M. Hawkins
               Sarah Houston
               Mary L. Brodie
               Sarah L. Nesbit
               Eliza A. Nesbit
               Armina M. Moore
               Solomon Ring and
               Wife
               Julia Marlow
               George Marlow
               Sarah Marlow
               Elisabeth Walls
               Sabra Rich
               David Ferguson, Sen.
               Lucy Ferguson
               William Mitcheal
               Sarah Carrithers
               Russell Mitcheal
               Sarah Mitcheal
               Elisabeth Mitcheal
               Averilla Grigsby
               Nancy Malone
               Mary Carter
               Uriah F[er]ree
               Elisabeth F[er]ree
               Rosa Rain[e]s
               Cornelius Rain[e]s
               Naoma J. Rain[e]s
               Sarilda Rain[e]s
               William Rain[e]s, Sen.
               David Ferguson, Jun.
               Lucinda Fe[r]guson
               William Walls
               Malissa Walls
               John Mitcheal
               Rebecca Mitchell
               Rebecca Skinner
               Rebecca Benefield
               Rebecca Osborn
               David Plough
               Nancy Plough
               Joshua Stark
               
               Lucinda Stark
               Sarah A. Stark
               Abraham Stark
               Daniel A. Stark
               Friend Lemons
               Rebecca Lemons
               John B. Wagoner
               John Trublood
               Netacris Trublood
               Margaret Walls
               Jane McKinl[e]y
               Mary A. Hill
               Reece M. Nesbit
               Mary E. Nesbit
               Benjamin Malone
               William Rain[e]s, Jun.
               Leanah McKimmy
               Thomas T. Nesbit, Jun.
               Sarah J. Mitcheal
               Nancy D. Rain[e]s
               Sarah Malone
               Sarah Brock
               Polly Brock
               Harlen Walters
               Samuel Patton
               Mary Patton
               Elisabeth Rusher
               Miner Rusher
               Polly Rusher
               Luticia Ingle
               William Wetherman and
               Wife
               William Rowe
               Elisabeth A. Walls
               James Rain[e]s
               William Chowning
               Nancy Bo[t]ts
               Lucinda Bo[t]ts
               Sarah Walls
               Wesley Plough
               Margaret Cochron
               Mary J. Benefield
               James McGarv[e]y
               Micheal Borders
               Nancy Borders
               Sarah Boats [Botts]
               John Bailey
               Elisabeth Bailey
               Walker Rusher
               Sarah Plough
               Nancy Plough
               Plough
               William Shaw
               Martin Elliott
               George Brock
               Rebecka Brock
               Wm. Rusher
               Jamima Hart
               Elizabeth Borders
               Ezekiel McGarv[e]y
               Martha McGarv[e]y
               Wm. Breaheave [Breedlove]
               Mary Jane Miller
               Bonwell D. Miller
               Samuel McClanihan [McClannahan]
                Polly McClanihan [McClannahan]
               Samuele Hopewell
               Sarah Hopewell
               Alford Caise
               Abriham Stark
               Daniel A. Stark
               Sarah F[er]ree
               Wm. Patton
               Elizabeth Patton
               Owens Nesbit
               Daniel Case
               Lusinda Case
               Wm. C. McClanihan [McClannahan]
               Elizabeth McKinley
               Wm. R. Maxwell
               
               Rebeca Maxwell
               Rachel Wagoner
               Naoma Wagoner
               Eliza Ann Listen
               Sarah Elizabeth Hawkins
               Sabra Jane Rich
               Perry Maxwell
               Robert Skinner
               Adam Hawkins
               Stephen Lovelace
               Martin Akim McClan[n]ahan
               Wm. Skinner
               Samuel Dudley
               Mrs. Jane Dudley
            
            
               Hillekiah Lovelace
               John Bowles
               Sarah Bowles
               John T. Beard
               Elden Davis
               Elizabeth Raines
               Anna Akers
               Phebe A. Combs
               Louisa Siner
               Hester A. Botts
               F. M. Botts
               Mary Raines
               Joseph D. McClan [n] ahan
               Melinda Shaw
               Letty Bailey
               Leonard Borders
               Jonathan Davis
               Perlina Davis
               Lydia Davis
               Elizabeth Bennifield
               Margaret J. Riley
               Tarlton Hawkins
               Permilia J. Ingle
               Mrs. Draper
               Synthia Melone
               Polly Melone
               Thomas B. Skinner
               George W. Patten
               Robt. A. Mitchel
               Benjamin Stice
               America Stice
               Mary J. Boles
               Mrs. Cahill
               Jane Stanley
               Mary Ferree
               Mary J. Nesbit
               Jackson Rich, Jun.
               George B. Hawkins
               Lewis Hale
            
            Revision of the Church Book at Palmer&apos;s Prairie, Sullivan Co. Indiana.
            
               John Bailey
               John Maxwell
               Thomas Nesbit
               Elizabeth Nesbit
               Jane Hill
               Susan A. Listen
               Tarlton Hawkins
               Sarah Houston
               Mary L. Brodie
               Sarah J. Beard
               Eliza A. Curry
               Armina M. Moore
               Solomon Ring and Wife
               Elizabeth Wall
               Sabra Mitchel
               Russel Mitchel
               Averilla Grigsby
               Nancy Breedlove
               Uriah Ferree
               Elizabeth Ferree
               
               Naoma J. Raines
               Cerilda Raines
               David Ferguson
               Lucinda Ferguson
               Wm. Wall
               Melissa Wall
               Rebeca Skinner
               Rebecca Bennifield
               Rebecca Osburn
               John Trueblood
               Netacris Trueblood
               Mary A. Hill
               Rees M. Nesbit
               Mary E. Nesbit
               Benjamin Melone
               Wm. Raines, Jun.
               Thomas T. Nesbit
               Nancy D. Raines
               Sarah Lovelace
               Samuel Patton
               Mary Wagoner
               Elizabeth Botts
               Minor Rusher
               Polly Rusher
               Elizabeth A. Walls
               James Raines
               John W. Plew
               Margaret Cochran
               Mary J. Bennifield
               Michael Borders
               Sarah Cunningham
               Ezekial McGarv[e]y
               Martha McGarv[e]y
               Wm. Breedlove
               Mary J. Miller
               B. D. Miller
               Samuel McClanahan
               Mary or (Polly McClan[n]ahan
               Samuel Hopewell
               Sarah Hopewell
               Wm. Patton
               Elizabeth Patton
               Campbell O. Nesbit
               Daniel Case
               Lucinda Case
               Wm. C. McClan[n]ahan
               Elizabeth McKinley
               Wm R. Maxwell
               Rebecca Maxwell
               Rachel Wagoner
               Naoma Wagoner
               Eliza A. Listen
               Sarah E. Hawkins
               Sabra J. Rich
               Wm. P. Maxwell
               Robert Skinner
               Adam Hawkins
               Stephen Lovelace
               Martin A. McClan[n]ahan
               Jane Dudley
               Hillekiah Lovelace
               John Bowles
               Sarah Bowles
               John T. Beard
               Eleanor Davis
               Elizabeth Raines
               Anna Akers
               Phebe Combs
               Louisa Siner
               Hester A. Botts
               Mary Rain[e]s McGarv[e]y
               Joseph D. McClan[n]ahan
               Melinda Shaw
               Letty Bailey
               Leonard Borders
               Johnathan Davis
               Permilia Davis
               Lydia Davis
               Elizabeth Bennifield
               Margaret J. Riley
               Permilia Ingle
               Synthia Melone
               Polly Melone
               
               Thomas B. Skinner
               George W. Patton
               Benjamin Stice
               America Stice
               Mary J. Bowles
               Mrs. Cahill
               Mary Ferree Skinner
               Mary J. Nesbit
               Jackson Rich, Jun.
               George R. Hawkins
               Lewis Hale
               John T. McClan[n]ahan
               Elizabeth Bailey
               Miss Nancy D. Plew
               Francis Doty
               Sarah Doty
               Rebecca Wall
               Anderson Ward
               Elizabeth Ward
               Wm. M. Raines
               Alvire Raines, his Wife
               James Smith
               Nancy Smith
               Wm. Hainey
               Mary E. Hainey
               Georg Hainey
               Margaret J. Bailey
               John Lovelace
               Cornelius D. Raines
               Catharine Raines
               Nancy J. Stice
               Sarah Perkizer
               Nancy J. Smock
               Stephen Ferguson
               Leah Ferguson
               Julia Ferree
               Sarah Rusher
               Elizabeth Gambol
               John Mitchel
               Elizabeth Mitchel
               Thomas Hale
               Thomas Hale
               James S. Neal
               Sarah A. Badders
               Eliza Badders
               G. W. Badders
               Peter Houck
               Sarah Houck
               Elzee Rusher and wife
               Tho. J. Robbins
               Margaret M. Robbins
               Eld. G. W. A. Luzader
               Charlotte Luzader
               Sarah Ward
               Nancy Ward
               Eld. Levi Woodward and wife
               Eld. Thomas Wolfe and wife
               Thomas Chambers and wife
               Mary A[nn] Raines
            
            Names Palmers Prairie Church
            
               Lucinda Woodward
               John Boles
               Mary A. Boles, his wife
               George H. Pirtle and
               Wife
               Tenyason Wagoner
               Thomas Nesbit and
               Wife
               J. S. Park and
               Wife
               Thomas T. Nesbit, Jun.
               Mary J. Nesbit
               William Wall
               Barthada Wall
               Nancy Jane Wolfe
               George W. Wolfe
               and Wife
               John Wall
               
               J. D. McClan[n]ahan
               James Bunch
               and Wife
               Eleck Davis
               Elizabeth Hawkins
               Simira Marlow
               Stephen Moser
               Maryann Engle
               Sintha Cox
               John Wolfe
               Ellen Keen
               John Houstain
               and Wife
               
                  
                            Oregon
                         Marlow
               Nathan Wells
               Tidwell Bidle
               James H. Hill
               Ransom Hawkins
               Samuel McGarv[e]y
               John Cahhal
               Sarah E. Osburn
               Mary Bell Osburn
               Hattie Bailey
               Emerrine Bennett
               Delia Boles
               Abraham Mahan
               Albert Smith
               Allice E. Smith
               Jenette Hummel
               Charles Smith
               Joseph Hill
               Jacob Pirtel
               Elizabeth Ward
               Mary Wall
               Marcus Wolfe
               Aaron E. Wolfe
               William Tool
               Henry Gambill and Wife
            
            
               Elder William Holt and
               Rhoda Holt, his Wife
               Elizabeth Benifield
               Josie Holt
               Adam Raines and Wife
               Aaron Sluder and Wife
            
            November, 1879
            
               Gertrude Hendricks
               Minary Houston
               Myrta A. Ford
               Hannah Hummel
               Catharine Ward
               Jane Melone
               Narcissus Hill
               Hettie Botts
               Mary Ann Keen
               Albert Hill
               James F. McClan[n]ahan
               Joseph Wolfe
               Gertrude Benefield
               Joey Nesbit
               Flora Marlow
               Aetna Shelburn [e]
               Frank Hawkins
               Leona Benefield
               Lizzie Shelburn
               James F. Raines
               Thomas E. Ward
               James Steele
               Olla Smith
               Armilda Keen
               Ann Willis
               Robert P. Raines
               Alexander Davis and Wife
               M. A. McClan[n]ahan
               and Wife
               Deella Boles
               Lina Crawford
               Charles Smith
               Henderson Boles
               
               Winny A. Plew
               Margaret Marlow
               Will McKinley
               B. W. Fry
               and Wife
               Anna Hawkins
               Thomas Nesbit, Jr. and Wife
               John Roberts and his Wife
               Pleasant Miller
               Margaret Hoskins
            
            November, 1882
            
               Tacy Luzader
               Josephine Chastain
               Mellissa Chastain
               
                  
                            Missouri
                         Chastain
               James Bilyew and Wife
               Lyman Ford and Wife
               Martha McClan [n] ahan
               Sarah Arnett
               Samuel Patton and Wife
               John Hawkins and Wife
               Jesse Powel and family
               John W. Cooney
               Kate Brodie
               Parthada Hawkine
               Mary Coulson
               Jennie Raines
            
            April 26, 1886
            
               John Mosi
               Manda Bylyew
            
            Church organized in 1831. (1827)-the Church on Busseron Creek-300 members or more all together.
            
               
                  First two elders
                  John Maxwell
               
               
                  Thomas Nesbit
               
               
                  First two deacons
                  Levis Maxwell
               
               
                  Jackson Rich
               
               
                  Pres [ent] Eld [ers]
                  T. J. Wolfe
               
               
                  N. Ferree
               
               
                  J. N. Bilyew 1886
               
               
                  Thomas Nesbit, Sr.
               
               
                  Pres[ent] Deacons
                  Wm. G. McClan[n]ahan
               
               
                  John B. Hawkins
               
               
                  Samuel Patton
               
               
                  Thomas T. Nesbit, Sr.
               
               
                  Pres [ent] Tr.
                  U. Ferree
               
               
                  J. N. Bilyew
               
               
                  Treasurer
                  Bilyew
               
               
                  Clerk
                  Wm. M. Raines
               
            
            
            Revision of Palmer&apos;s Prairie Church Record, February 14, 1886
            
               1. Mrs. Jane Hill
               2. Mrs. Susan A. Liston
               3. Uriah Ferree and Wife
               5. Mrs. Sarah Houston
               6. Mrs. Rebecca Benefield
               7. Benjamin Melone, and Wife
               8. Mrs. Polly Rusher
               9. Miss Mary J. Benefield
               10. Wm. H. Rusher and Wife
               12. Mrs. Sabra Jane Marlow
               13. Mrs. Ellen Raines
               14. 
                            Marion
                         Botts and Wife
               16. Mrs. Mary McGarvey
               17. J. D. McClan[n]ahan
               18. Jonathan Davis and wife
               20. Wm. G. McClan[n]ahan and wife
               22. Mrs. G. W. Benefield (Eliz.)
               23. Mrs. Willis Benefield (Eliz.) 50.
               24. Mrs. Elizabeth Botts
               25. Mrs. Sarah Cunningham
               26. Wm. M. Raines and Wife
               28. Miss Nancy Ward
               29. Eld. T. J. Wolfe and Wife
               31. Mrs. Samira Crawford
               32. Mrs. Mary Ann Houpt
               33. Miss Cyntha Cox
               34. Miss Elizabeth Ward
               35. Mrs. Belle Cass
               36. James Houston and Wife Sarah Cox William Marlow and Wife Adam Raines and Wife The
                        "faithful" which came in under the preaching of Rev. Ingram, Nov., 1879.
               38. Minary Houston
               39. Mrs. Joseph Wolfe
               40. Catherine Ward
               41. Jane Melone
               42. Mrs. Hettie Wyman
               43. Mary Ann Keen
               44. Josie Nesbit
               45. Flora Marlow
               46. James F. Raines and Wife
               48. Thomas E. Ward
               49. James Steele
               50. Armilda Keen
               51. Alex Davis and Wife
               53. Martin A. McClan[n]ahan and Wife
               55. Mrs. Winny A. Plew
               56. Maggie Marlow
               57. Thos. T. Nesbit (Jun.) and Wife
               59. Mrs. Maggie Wilson
            
            The "faithful" who came in under Rev. Ingrain&apos;s preaching Nov. 1882.
            
               60. Miss Tacy Luzader
               61. Mrs. Josephine Raines
               62. Mrs. Melissa Smith
               63. Miss Missouri Chastain
               64. James Bilyew and wife 66. Samuel Patton and wife
               68. John B. Hawkins and wife
               69. Miss Katie Brodie
               70. Mrs. Parthada Hawkins
               71. John Mosier
               72. Mrs. Lena Maxwell
               73. Aaron Sluder and wife
            
            
            Those who came in under Rev. J. W. Perkins&apos; Preaching, Feb., 1886.
            
               1. Flora Raines
               2. Jonathan Raines
               3. Matilda Hill
               4. Sylvester McGrew and wife
               6. Marion Delapp
               7. Anne Davis
               8. Henry Smith
               9. Mollie Wall
               10. Stella McGarvey
               11. Oliver Smith
               12. Mary Raines
               13. Mattie Ward
               14. Lizzie Shelburn [e]
               15. James Ferree
               16. Geo. F. Botts
               17. Thos Nesbit, (Sen.), and wife
               19. Joe Hill and wife
               21. Jeannette Hummel
               22. Joseph Wolfe
               23. Maggie Raines
               24. Maggie Houston
               25. Ella Davis
               26. Geo. Ferree and wife
               28. Hannah Cunningham
               29. Laura Wall
               30. John Ward
               31. Willie Kirk
               32. Joseph Wyman
               33. Wm. Wall and wife
               35. Achsah Benefield
               36. John Hardy Siner
               37. Etna Shelburn [e]
               38. Ceph Shelburn [e]
               39. Sintha Delapp
               40. John A. Wilson
            
            November, 1886
            
               41. Mrs. Kate Ward
               42. Nannie Skinner
               43. Luie McClan[n]ahan
               44. Rennie C. Wall
               45. John E. Neal
               46. Mary Neal, his wife
               47. Robert Benefield
               48. Tarlton Hawkins
               49. Emma Park
               50. Noah Bridwell
               51. Reason Nesbit
               52. Mary E. Nesbit
               53. Mollie A. Nesbit
               54. William Cunningham
               55. Ranson Cunningham
               56. Sue Ward
               57. Perry Davis
               58. Samuel Wolfe
               59. James Carrithers
               60. Dora Marlow
            
            November, 1891
            
               1. George Brow [n] ing,
               2. Lillie Pain
               3. Stella Rich
               4. Ida Botts
               5. Dela Botts
               6. Mrs. [William, Jr.] 
                            Shelburn
                        [e]
               7. Jackson Rich
               8. Fanny A. Rusher
               9. William Shelburn [e], Jr.
            
            
            1893
            
               Mrs. Akers
               Nervie Tipton
               Sattie Davis
               May Mosier
            
            Those who came in under the Preaching of Jessie Wilson, 1894.
            
               Inis Bailey
               Duglas Rich
               Mrs. Hendricks
               Tressie Bailey
               Maggie C. Ward
               Lola Bailey
               Flora Botts
               Flora Pain
               Harvy Tipton
               Perry Davis
               Fanny Marlow
               Mrs. Mosier
            
            Those who became members of Palmer&apos;s Prairie Church under the preaching of brother Jesse
                    Wilson in the year, 1895.
            
               J. H. McBride
               Thomas Taylor
               Ida Marcum
               Lovelace
               Ira Wence
               Gertrude Hendricks
               Bertha Rich
               Ora Hendricks
            
            Those persons who became members of the Church of Christ at Palmer&apos;s Prairie under the
                    preaching of Bro. Williams.
            
               Dec. 26 Gertie Ward
               Dec. 27 John Wence
               Dec. 27 Mrs. John Wence
            
            Members received during preaching of Bro. H. C. Shaw, Nov. 4, 1899.
            
               David Hummel
               Cordia Nesbit
               Claude Raines
               Eva Davis
               Alice Davis
               Bertha Hendricks
               Elsie Hendricks
               Ethel Hendricks
               William Miller
               E. McClellan Leach
               William Raines [III]
               Ida Raines [his wife]
               Luella Gray
               Claude Raines
               Flavia Rusher
               James F. Akers
               Joseph Sommers
               Ethel Case
               Ed Engle
               Maude Rich
               Susie Tipton
               Elmer Chastain
            
            
            All the above came into the Body of Christ by Immersion.
            
               Albert Wright
               Mrs. Albert Wright
               Nora Wright
            
            1903
            
               Joel Rusher
            
            December 1903
            
               Glenn Mosier
               Lucky Case
               Dan Burroughs
            
         
         
         
            Hill Men of Indiana
            
               C. A. Hill licensed to marry Annie Dixon 1874, 
                            Randolph County
                        , Indiana.
               Caleb S. Hill from 
                            Clay County
                        , Indiana, in Co. B 133rd Regt. Ind. Inf. 1864.
               Camden L. Hill from 
                            Knox County
                        , Indiana, in Co. G 21st Regt. Ind. Inf. 1861.
               Casper Hill, m. Anna M. Glauber, died 
                            Ripley County
                        , Indiana.
               Charles Hill, m. Mildred Handy, died Hamblin Twp., Brown County, Indiana.
               Charles Hill m. Emily M. Taylor 1851, 
                            Allen County
                        , Indiana.
               Charles Hill b. 1823 
                            Orange County
                        , Indiana, son of Christopher.
               Charles Hill b. 1844 Indiana son of Conrad.
               Charles C. Hill from 
                            Princeton
                        , Indiana, Lt. Co. K. Ind. Inf. 1865.
               Charles M. Hill licensed to marry Clarinda Blunt 1858, 
                            Randolph County
                        , Indiana.
               Charles M. Hill in Co. E. 118 Regt. Inf. 1863.
               Charles W. Hill m. Cynthia, lived in 
                            Green County
                        , Indiana, 1850.
               Charles W. Hill from 
                            Fountain County
                        , Indiana, Co. G. 10th Regt. Ind. Inf. 1861.
               Charles W. Hill from 
                            Rockport
                        , Indiana, in Co. H. 42nd Regt. Ind. Inf. 1864.
               Chas. Wesley Hill, b. 1843 
                            Bartholomew County
                        , Indiana, Grad. University of 
                            Michigan
                        , 1883.
               Christian Hill from 
                            St. Louis
                            Missouri
                        , in Co. C 25th Regt. Ind. Inf. 1862.
            
            Correspondence and Records on the above desired by
            Edwin B. Hill
            5421 
                        Broadway
                    
            
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                     20, Indiana
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
