
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 32, Issue 3, pages 189-318. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:32+issue:3+year:1936&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            James Whitcomb Riley
            GEORGE C. HITT
            
            When my acquaintance with James Whitcomb Riley began, in 1877, he had passed through ten years of
                    struggle to make himself a poet; he had suffered from what Stevenson called "the green
                    sickness of youth," had dreamed dreams and seen visions, had learned the dignity of labor
                    by dabbling with the paint brushes and working on country newspapers, had settled on a vocation, and
                    was cheerful withal over the outlook for the future.1 At the age of
                    twenty-eight, he had been outside of Indiana but once, when an adventure with a patent-medicine
                    vendor took him just over the border into 
                        Ohio
                    ; so that what he knew was acquired by association with his own people. He was
                    "native here and to the manner born" in the fullest measure.
            The brief time he had spent in school in the little country town of 
                        Greenfield
                    , Indiana, honored as his birthplace, where for a while he had one sympathetic teacher,
                    was the least part of his education. His comfortable home, his mother, his brothers and sisters, and
                    a rather stern father, who failed to see anything but a wayward boy in the house, where he was
                    harboring a genius; the playmates in the town, the neighbors, the country friends who visited with
                    the household and whose visits were returned; the travelers who journeyed to and fro on the National
                    Road; the books he devoured, selected as incongruously as only an eccentric boy who had no special
                    guidance might choose them; the shoemaker's shop, the printing office, the Court House,
                    where as a child and boy he often went with his lawyer father; the political and patriotic meetings
                        
                  
                     1This paper was first prepared in 1919 and read before the 
                                Indianapolis
                             Literary Club on January 6 of that year. It was extensively revised and read
                            before the same Club on February 3, 1936. Later in the present year, it was read before the
                            resident members of the Indiana Historical Society in the William Henry Smith Memorial
                            Library, 
                                Indianapolis
                            , on May 28.
               
                     of war-time and after-the-war time; the church socials, the
                    picnics, the county fair—all these were the sources of his education, and, in my opinion,
                    they were far better for him than years spent in school and college.
            
               
                        Indianapolis
                    , I think, has always felt that the poet Riley was grown in its garden. The fact is, he
                    was a poet, well developed, when he came here. He had done before his coming some of the best work
                    of his life, notably his "Fame," "Dot Leedle Boy," "An
                    Old Sweetheart of Mine," "Squire Hawkins's Story," and
                    "If I Knew What Poets Know." He had, too, made his entry into the portals of the
                    histrionic temple, for he had, since a lad, showed his talent for acting, and had read his own verse
                    from many a rural and small-town stage. In the city he had, it is true, a wider field, but the spark
                    of genius both as reader and writer had kindled into a lively flame when he reached us, and it
                    glowed later with increasing steadiness for all the years of his literary productiveness. He was
                    like some flowering plants that yield more prolifically the more their bloom is plucked. It was one
                    of his sayings that "one poem brings on another."
            At twenty years of age, when his beloved mother died—his first great sorrow—he
                    had finished a period in his life that furnished him with the largest part of the material for the
                    work of his after years. The impressions made on his strangely sensitive mind, during his infancy,
                    childhood and boyhood, were deep and lasting. It would seem that he never forgot anything that had
                    come under his observation out of which poetry could be made. About birds, bees, animals, flowers
                    and trees; about seedtime and harvest and the weather; about green fields and running brooks; about
                    country and town ways of doing and saying things; about the social, church and school of the
                    community—about all these things his information was minute and definite. From this great
                    storehouse of fact and experience he drew copiously to the end of his career, garbing this homely
                    knowledge with poetic garments, touching it with his imagination, and presenting it to us in verses
                        
                        Made out o' truck at's jes' a-goin' to waste
                            'Cause smart folks thinks it's altogether too Outrageous
                            common….
                    
            
            
            My first meeting with him was solely one of business, a thing he knew as little about as I did of
                    writing poetry. He came into the private office of the business manager of the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, which place I then and for years after held, and shyly presented to me an
                    order from the managing editor to pay him a sum of money (which I know now was much too small) for certain poems that had appeared in the paper over his name, early in 1877.
                    He was dressed in a long Prince Albert coat that suggested a professional man, and he also wore a
                    long, light-colored, drooping mustache that suggested a pirate. In after years he always humorously
                    alluded to that growth of hair on his upper lip as "an ingrowing mustache."
            Our interview was brief, but it served to make us acquainted. His connection with the paper was as a
                    contributor and it was not for two years afterwards that he came to us as one of the staff, and even
                    then he was master of his own time. But so often was he in the office, following that first call,
                    that I made a place for him in my private room, provided him with a small black-walnut desk, and for
                    many years after I had for an office mate a poet and a companionable friend. Never were two men more
                    unlike. We were of widely different vocations, he a dreamer, I dealing with the practical things of
                    life; he a bachelor and foot-free, I had given "hostages to fortune"; he driven by but one
                    purpose, to write and interpret his writing, I engrossed in the variety of effort necessary in the
                    management of a large daily newspaper—and yet we merged into a friendship that was ideal.
            More important to him than our personal relations, however, was his fortunate introduction to the
                    group of men in 
                        Indianapolis
                     whom he afterwards knew so well and whose friendship he so highly prized—an
                    introduction quite accidental but, to my mind, most momentous. The newspaper people, of course, were
                    quick to discern his unusual qualities and it was not long until he attracted the attention of a few
                    men who used to foregather almost daily for an hour's interchange of thought and humor and
                    opinion, in my little back room of the Business Office of the Journal, where Fate
                    had established this shy genius. Here he met intimately such men as—Judge E.B.
                    Martindale, the newspaper's proprietor and his first patron here; Rev. Myron Reed and Oscar
                    McCulloch, distinguished  preachers; and William P.
                    Fishback—all of whom were frequent visitors. Others occasionally he saw, like General
                    Harrison, afterwards President of the 
                        United States
                    , who dropped in to tell a war story or leave a wise opinion. These sessoins became an
                    informal club, of which, alas! we kept no records, and its interesting proceedings have now vanished
                    like a dream. Into this stimulating atmosphere, an entirely new one to him, the young poet came and
                    was welcomed by personages who were prominent citizens, thoughtful professional men, politicians of
                    note, and dabblers in the literary activities of the day. He profited much by the association and it
                    widened greatly his views of life. The Journal office, he once told me, was the
                    only college he ever attended, and it was always recognized by him as a helpful and happy sort of
                    school. It continued to be his literary home for years; and there it was that I came to know him
                    intimately, to enjoy his company, and to share in the advancement of his interests both as a reader
                    and writer.
            There it was that I saw many of his poems in the making and noted the author, who humorously called
                    himself "the best durned little poet in Center Township," write lines over and
                    over and try out words and phrases, to the end that they might approach perfection in sound and
                    sense. "It takes a lot of rubber to write a poem," was one of his quaint
                    observations, as he laboriously put an inspiration into the stanzas that finally pleased him and
                    then read them aloud to me before he sent them to the printer. It was a great pleasure to me, and a
                    corresponding pleasure to him, I think, to have him remark, "How do you like this little
                    feller?" as he handed over for perusal a poem like "Nothin' to
                    Say" or "Old Fashioned Roses." And it was positive joy to have him read
                    it himself—a request I always made of him and generally had it granted.
            The 
                        Indianapolis
                     Literary Club, too, was another helpful element in his development. Within two years
                    after it was organized, he was invited to give a reading at one of its meetings; and the next year,
                    in 1880, he was elected a member. It was gratifying to him to have such a recognition from men who
                    then counted for much in the community, who met him cordially and gave him generous encouragement.
                    It was the first honor of consequence that had come to him in his native state and he highly
                    appreciated it. In due course he appeared on the programs and contributed his share of work at the
                         meetings and banquets. Two notable papers, "The
                    Old Man," partly prose and partly verse, and his unanswerable arguments concerning the
                    worthiness of "Dialect in Literature," were here first presented, as well as his
                    famous "Old Glory" poem, which he read as a try-out at the Club's annual
                    banquet in 1898 before he sent it to the Atlantic Monthly, it and the
                    "Sermon of the Rose" being his only contributions to that periodical.
            From the newspaper coign of vantage, he slowly widened his field of activity until in Indiana, at
                    least, he had many admirers, who read his constant flow of verse and prose and who were finally
                    attracted to his entertainments. One winter, that of 1879–80, I managed for him a series
                    of readings in the central part of the State, with the thought that he needed only the opportunity
                    to appear before the people in order to convince them of his great worth. It was a strange adventure
                    for both of us. We worked together over posters, we considered programs, we devised various schemes
                    for advertising through the papers, and, though often disappointed in results, we ended the season
                    satisfactorily. The secret of the success was, that Riley always gave an audience more pleasure than
                    was anticipated.
            The intimacy resulting from such a tour was delightful for me. I came to know every phase of
                    character possessed by my comrade. I discovered and excused his few faults and failings, for, like
                    all of us human beings, he had his share of them; but they did not obscure the array of fine
                    attributes that were his, such as his friendly spirit, his tender heartedness, his sturdy honesty,
                    his quaint humor, his singleness of purpose, his fine literary instinct, his industry, and, above
                    all, his genuine love for things "Hoosier." Nicholson tells us that Riley once
                    wrote to him of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , calling it "high Heaven's sole and only understudy"; and in those
                    lines of his, 
                        Right here at home, boys, is the place, I guess Fer you and me and plain old happiness
                    he voices that intense love for Indiana which was a part of his very nature.
            From time to time, during the several years while he was contributing poetry, he wrote for the Journal a number of prose sketches, incorporated in which was some excellent
                    verse, and they were most favorably received, because  of their
                    unquestioned merit. They contain, one finds upon reading them again, the germs and often the very
                    substance of much of his poetry. In "Tod," which was written when he was about
                    twenty-one and is clearly autobiographic, in "An Adjustable Lunatic," "A
                    Remarkable Man," "An Old Settler's Story," "Where is
                    Mary Alice Smith?," one or two in the Dickens style, "The Boy from Zenny"
                    and the "Tale of a Spider," one discovers most surprisingly, the sources of his
                    later work. It would seem as if he had written all these prose sketches and used them as a sort of
                    treasure-house to draw from as he needed poetic material. They are wonderfully well done, showing a
                    fine command of English, much invention, a spice of humor, a lively imagination and a true knowledge
                    of the art of narrative. Enough of these had accumulated by 1882 to make a book. I was anxious that
                    he should get them into print, but he evidenced no especial interest in the suggestion.
            In 1878 he had published in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Herald "The Flying Islands of the Night," a strange, fantastic
                    drama, "a thynge of wytchencreft—an idle dreme," he called it, quoting
                    Chatterton. It was then and ever after his especial pride. Into it he had poured his weirdest
                    imaginings, making it, as it were, the reservoir for many incomprehensible melodious rhymes that
                    printed themselves on his mind and demanded utterance. This was what he wanted
                    printed in a book; but I objected continuously, because I believed that the practical public would
                    not accept that kind of poetry and that he would be painfully disappointed if he attempted its
                    publication. Because he received no encouragement then from any of his friends, he temporarily
                    abandoned the idea of issuing "The Flying Islands," but with his usual
                    persistency, thirteen years later, when he was well established, he induced his publishers to bring
                    out a special edition of it, which was followed by others as late as 1913. He always loved this
                    child of his brain which he worked with and revised and hoped to see staged, and he never could
                    quite forgive me for not appreciating it as he did. Frankly, it did not and it does not appeal to
                    me; why, I do not know; but I am very glad it was written because of the charming verses Riley
                    penned afterwards, in defense of it and much other true poetry, called "For the
                    Song's Sake."
            As we were both Hoosiers, born and bred, and had heard  the same
                    kinds of dialect, we drifted into the habit of using it with each other without thought or comment.
                    Wherever we were, whether traveling, or in our office, or at my home, Riley, assuming the old
                    farmer, or some other character, with me for a mere foil, would keep up long conversations, trying
                    out new phrases and terms of speech, which afterwards would appear in his verse or prose. He was
                    constantly studying and determining the values of the common-talk that we heard on trains or in
                    towns or out in the open country; hence, there is nothing artificial in his dialect—he
                    knew it at first hand. He loved it, used it reverently, and had the genius to make poetry with it.
            In the summer and fall of 1882, he wrote the twelve Benj. F. Johnson poems for the Journal ("The Old Swimmin' Hole and Eleven More Poems"),
                    assuming their authorship with the last one. They possessed so high a quality of merit that their
                    preservation in book form seemed to me to be imperative. It was not until the next year, however,
                    that they so appeared, Riley using some of them meanwhile in his readings and evincing almost
                    indifference about the book. There was no real publishing house here then, and I therefore took the
                    copy to 
                        Cincinnati
                     and tried to induce the old and well-known publishers, Robert Clark & Company,
                    to issue the volume. They courteously but firmly declined to put their imprint on it, but offered to
                    make one thousand copies of the book as a piece of job work, and suggested that the name of George
                    C. Hitt & Company be used as the publishers, Mr. Riley being the
                    "Company." The order was given. The work was well done and the edition was quickly
                    sold: whereupon, having accomplished my object, at their request, I turned the copyright over to the
                    local book sellers, who had awakened to their opportunity, made a contract with them for Mr. Riley
                    and retired from book publishing forever. New editions followed and, later, other books of. his
                    appeared, until Riley and his publishers became an 
                        Indianapolis
                     institution. I have always been glad because of my early connection with his first
                    book, and I speak of it now with a sense of pride, which I trust is not unbecoming, believing that
                    it marked an epoch in Indiana's literary record, and knowing that it was timely help given
                    to a friend.
            At a later period in his life, when his fame had grown  until an
                    English publisher was issuing a volume of his verse, and he was enjoying great prosperity, it was my
                    good fortune to bring together him and Rudyard Kipling—the King, Riley
                    always called him. A wave of politics had washed me temporarily into the service of our government
                    as Vice Consul General of the 
                        United States
                     at 
                        London
                    , and Riley, having just published his Rhymes of Childhood, sent me
                    there two autographed copies and asked me to present them in person, with his compliments, to Andrew
                    Lang and Rudyard Kipling. It was a pleasant but rather difficult task, because of English
                    conventionalities; but after some formal correspondence, I was able to deliver the books as
                    directed, and incidentally to meet Kipling in his bachelor quarters, where he received me most
                    cordially, laughed heartily at "The Raggedy Man," and expressed much pleasure over
                    the gift from a fellow poet. Subsequently he wrote to Riley, acknowledging receipt of the gift and
                    enclosing a poem of his own, commemorating the event, which remained one of Riley's
                    treasures. Later they corresponded and finally met each other in America several times, each
                    thoroughly appreciating the other in a very happy association.
            While I was still in 
                        London
                    , another event in Riley's rather uneventful life occurred. He fared forth and
                    ventured far from home across the seas. The announcement to me of his coming was characteristic. In
                    a letter, acknowledging mine telling him of the Kipling episode, and, after he had recounted the
                    pleasures of a recent visit with Myron Reed in 
                        Denver
                    , he says: 
                  
                     
                        And right here, in confidence, I think you may look for the pair of us your way this
                                    summer. Will sail in June, as now agreed upon. Reed is going, sure [here he drops
                                    into farmer dialect], and I guess I jes' got to take and turn in and pack
                                    up and go too. But law me! I don't see how I can drap all now and leave the
                                    place go to rack—and stock and all—like times is now, you know—and go philanderin' off, from pillar to
                                    post, a-knockin' round amongst my betters and them 'at kin go—bein' pervided, and
                                    a-not a-keerin' fer the constant dreenage and expense 'at keeps
                                    the pore man with his nose aginst the grindstone all the days of his life, I Gosh!
                                    … There's a thousand things I want to ask you about, and
                                    kindo' pirate your advice, as always in the past—so, guess I
                                    really will have to go over to you purty soon.
                     
                  
               
                     And so he came.
            With him on this trip abroad were both of his friends and mine, Myron Reed and William P. Fishback.
                    They visited together the Burns country in 
                        Scotland
                    , the Shakespeare and Wordsworth localities in 
                        England
                    , and then came on to 
                        London
                    , where each of them, being of widely differing tastes, took his own way of enjoying the
                    metropolis. Riley here met his friend Henry Irving, whose acquaintance he had made in this country,
                    and the famous actor gave him a dinner on the stage of the Lyceum Theatre after one of his
                    performances, at which were many distinguished persons, among them Irving's friend and
                    fellow artist, the great Coquelin of 
                        Paris
                    .
            Riley was requested to recite and acquitted himself with high credit, drawing from all, and
                    especially from Coquelin, the warmest praise for his ability both as a reader and actor. His 
                        London
                     publishers provided him with entree to various clubs and he was given
                    wide opportunity for a pleasant and profitable visit.
            I was with Riley daily during his stay. We wasted much substance in riotous cabfares, as he
                    humorously put it: chasing the elusive Kipling from place to place and just missing him as last at
                    his father's residence; looking with western eyes upon buildings and places that were old
                    and hoary, until antiquity became tiresome; visiting tombs of celebrities, art galleries, and the
                    Houses of Parliament; and finally, winding up such journeys by going to his hotel and talking about
                    the "home-folks" back here in Indiana, to get our bearings again. Westminster
                    Abbey did not interest Riley, I think, save the Poets' Corner, where Dickens lies and the
                    bust of Longfellow stands, both literary heroes to him. He was an interested observer of the Dickens
                    places that are always pointed out in 
                        London
                    , the Goldsmith grave in the rear of the Temple Church, and, especially, the graves of
                    John Bunyan, Susanna Wesley, Isaac Watts and Daniel Defoe, found in the Bunhill Fields Burying
                    Ground. As we stood there looking at the monument that marks the spot where the author of Robinson Crusoe lies, upon which is inscribed ERECTED BY
                        THE BOYS AND GIRLS OF ENGLAND neither of us imagined that some day, out here in the
                    little  Indiana town of 
                        Greenfield
                    , there would stand, as there now stands, a bronze statue bearing the legend:
                        JAMES WHITCOMB RILEY ERECTED BY AMERICAN SCHOOL CHILDREN
                    
            
            Let me note here his retrospective characteristic—"think-in'
                    back" he called it. It grew almost into a habit that possessed him all through life. In his
                    collected works, where the poems are arranged chronologically, the first title in the first volume
                    is "A Backward Look." In this boyish effort, written before he was twenty, he has
                    Memory, personified, slipping out in the street of "Auld Lang Syne," recalling the
                    dreams of boyhood days, and wandering 
                        … down through the woods to the swimming-hole, Where the big, white, hollow old
                            sycamore grows. And we never cared when the water was cold And always
                            "ducked" the boy that told On the fellow that tied the clothes. When life
                            went so like a dreamy rhyme That it seems to me now that then The world was having a jollier
                            time Than it ever will have again.
                    
            
            Many years later he wrote a dialect poem, entitled "Thinkin' Back,"
                    indicating this tendency to dwell on bygone days, a few lines of which I quote: 
                        Thinkin' back's a thing 'at grows On a feller, I
                            suppose— Older 'at he gits, i jack More he keeps a-thinkin'
                            back! Old as old men git to be Er as middle-aged as me Folks'll find us, eye and
                            mind Fixed on what we-ve left behind— Rehabilitatin'-like Them old times
                            we used to hike Out barefooted fer the crick, Long bout Aprile first—to pick Out
                            some "warmest" place to go In a-swimmin'….
                    
            
            So he went on through life, ever looking back, like Wordsworth's man, to the
                    "cheerful yesterdays," saying but little about the "confident
                    tomorrows," and singing praises to the end, of "The old days, the lost days, how
                    lovely they were!" More than fifty of his poems are in this vein, showing how  happy his early life was and how clear and dear were his memories of
                    it. In the evening of his days he sums it all up in a little one-stanza poem: 
                        Long life's a lovely thing to know, With lovely health and wealth, forsooth, And
                            lovely name and fame—but O The loveliness of Youth!
                    
            
            The present generation does not know—it can not know—the greatness of Riley as
                    a reader. He developed that genius as his genius grew in poetry, and for years before he found a
                    public to buy and enjoy his books he had charmed multitudes with readings from his own work. In fact
                    this outlet was for him a most natural one, because he was born an actor as well as a poet. His
                    imagination drifted easily into dramatic channels, and what he saw and heard as a boy among the
                    homely, wholesome people of Indiana he later transmuted into poetry, and unconsciously began to
                    impersonate the characters that marshaled themselves in his fertile brain.
            He began in the humblest way to read his own work at rural school entertainments, at school
                    exhibitions, at Old Settlers' meetings, at Grand Army reunions, and at "The
                    Literary." His vein of humor was delicious, and the smiles he evoked were near neighbors to
                    the pathos that he knew always mingled with the various phases of life. His observation was of the
                    keenest sort, and no peculiarity of speech or manner escaped him in the simple walks he trod. Many
                    of his well known poems were offered to Indiana audiences long before they got into print in
                    book-form, and nearly all of his humorous prose sketches were familiar to his friends here at home
                    before they delighted audiences elsewhere. His best poems, first printed in newspapers, were widely
                    copied; but he was even then strong on the platform as the interpreter of his own product. The
                    lecture bureaus finally awoke to the fact that he was desirable, and for season after season he had
                    for his field most of the 
                        United States
                    .
            In reading, his selections, both prose and verse, were always varied and required careful memorizing;
                    but no pains were ever spared by him, exhausting as it often was, in presenting his thought and
                    action to his hearers. His manners were pleasing, his gestures graceful, and his voice, though not
                    strong, was so used and controlled as to reach clearly the utter-most  parts of the largest auditoriums. It was musical and agreeable, and was
                    especially trained for the presentation of children's and varied dialect parts. In his
                    serious work, there was no note he could not strike with it to awaken all the emotions. Although
                    faultlessly dressed, one never thought of him other than in the character he represented. He was a
                    plain old farmer, or the self-conscious pedagogue, discoursing on the peanut, or the natural child
                    telling the bear story. His hearers forgot conventionalities and went with him to the fields, and
                    streams, looked with him into the humble homes of country folk, and followed with him into the
                    company of children, who were always dear to him. He couldn't help talking in character. In
                    private life, among his intimates, he frequently dropped into homely dialect without apparent
                    effort, and told stories to children in their own vernacular that were altogether delightful.
            He had strong dramatic instincts, like Dickens, who was always a favorite author with him and had
                    considerable influence, I think, on his career. The great Englishman read from his own books, and as
                    a boy Riley had dreams that he too would follow that example. He read how the novelist exercised
                    such wonderful power over audiences in the East during his memorable trip to this country in the
                    late sixties—especially in 
                        Boston
                    , where in Tremont Temple he delighted the most cultured people of the city. This
                    inspiration haunted Riley; and when, in 1882, he too stood in Tremont Temple, 
                        Boston
                    , on the very stage and spot where Dickens scored one of his greatest triumphs, and
                    looked at the audience packed to the dome and ready to listen to him, it was a proud moment of
                    realization of hope, and filled him with joyful emotion. 
                        Boston
                     appreciated him then and afterward, and every other large city in the country was
                    enthusiastic over his performances. So ran his career as a reader.
            Today he must be enjoyed through his books; but alas, the pity of it, how much is missed! Sweet is
                    the memory of him as he read in years gone by "An Old Sweetheart of Mine,"
                    "The Object Lesson," "The Tree-Toad," "Squire
                    Hawkins's Story," "Nothin' to Say," "Old
                    Glory," "Lines fer the Discuraged Farmer," "Out to Old Aunt
                    Mary's," "Little Orphant Annie," "Good-Bye
                    Jim," and many other poems the titles of which crowd the mind. To those who have sat under
                    his spell  there comes a feeling of gratitude for the rare
                    privilege of having known him both as poet and reader; and this feeling is followed by one regret
                    that his voice is forever stilled and his acting only a memory.
            I have repeated here, perhaps at too great length, facts and opinions that I have expressed
                        elsewhere,2 and have often reiterated by word of mouth about
                    Riley's platform work, in emphasis of my belief that his fame was achieved quite as much by
                    his genius as a reader as by his genius as a poet. It was by the interpretation of his thought that
                    his success was first attained, and thus he introduced to a wide audience his poetry, which would
                    not have attracted the attention it deserved if left to mere book publication. It was only after
                    much persuasion that I induced him to print his first small book, The Old
                        Swimmin' Hole and 'Leven More Poems. He had written the poems in it to
                        read and to have a greater variety for his programs. He had, by the time they
                    appeared, captured an extensive audience of interested people and it was from the platform that he
                    expected to, and surely did, establish a name as an apostle of the high art of being natural. The
                    popularity of his books, all issued after he had "arrived" as a reader, was
                    largely the result of that personal effort; and while it goes without saying that upon his books
                    will depend the continuation of his fame, it is also true that he made a place for them in our
                    generation, by his genius as a reader.
            He was not a man who carried his heart on his sleeve; in many ways he was singularly reticent. He
                    would never tell, for example, how old he was, and if he ever was in love it was not revealed to me,
                    as well as I knew him. His profound respect for womankind was inborn and his love for children was
                    tender but not effusive. Yet, somehow he read the childish mind and heart like an open book, and
                    with childish speech he was masterful, as his poems for and about children so plainly disclose.
            His interest in economic, political, industrial or kindred subjects was very slight. "He
                    would not paddle in the social slush," as someone said of Thoreau, and Society, as it now
                    exists, struggled along without him. Friends he had, such as he chose for himself, but he lived in
                    serenity in a world of 
                  
                     2 Georgre C. Hitt, "Mr. Kiley as a Public Reader,"
                            in Book Newa Monthly (March. 1907), XXV, No. 7.
               
                     his own, occupied with his thoughts and
                    adorning them with his imagination.
            Mention only may be made here of his unusual chirography, his skill in drawing with pen or pencil,
                    and his love for simple music.
            The harmony of Tennyson's verse was a great delight to him. He loved the sound of the lines
                    in "The Lady of Shalott," and often quoted those which describe the gallant Sir
                    Lancelot, riding in sight of the mysterious lady, who sat weaving and looking in her mirror: 
                        His broad clear brow in sunlight glowed, On burnished hooves his war-horse trode; From
                            underneath his helmet flowed His coal-black curls, as on he rode, As he rode down to
                            Camelot.
                    
            
            This is smooth and sonorous verse; it stirs the imagination; it pleases the ear, and it carries over
                    the thought and emotion of the author to the reader, which is the true test of poetry. Tennyson had
                    the gift; but so had Riley. In his poem called "Fame," written when he was only
                    twenty-seven years old, where he described the ecstacy of the poet at his work, he penned these
                    beautiful lines, which do not suffer by comparison with either Tennyson's or
                    Longfellow's smooth measures: 
                        I saw him, in my vision, filled With rapture o'er a spray of bloom The wind threw in
                            his lonely room; And of the sweet perfume it spilled He drank to drunkenness, and flung His
                            long hair back, and laughed and sung And clapped his hands as children do At fairy tales
                            they listen to, While from his flying quill there dripped Such music on his manuscript That
                            he who listens to the words May close his eyes and dream the birds Are twittering on every
                            hand A language he can understand.
                    
            
            He was especially endowed with imagination, humor, love of nature, keen observation, a remarkable
                    memory, and a fine perception of human relationships. These were what Mrs. Humphrey Ward called
                    "cradle gifts." They were all improved as he used them, but he did not have to
                    acquire them. What he did acquire, and it is a marvel how well he accomplished  the task, was "a true command of the art of words."
                    Somewhere he writes: 
                        Words will not say what I yearn to say, They will not walk as I want them to.
                    But he mastered them, God only knows how! and wove them into fabrics of song that are and
                    ever will be beautiful.
            How did he get his vocabulary? He never seemed to lack for words and yet he never seemed to be
                    searching for them or studying them in books or dictionaries. When I first knew him he was not given
                    to much reading, though in later years he browsed among books with great delight. He knew Longfellow
                    and Shakespeare and Keats and Tennyson and Dickens well. He then had no library and I have always
                    marveled, and do now, how he could use the English language in so masterly a manner. The fact is he
                    was in many ways an anomaly. He never studied rhetoric, yet his similes and comparisons, his
                    metaphors, allusions and allegories are numberless and striking in their beautiful accuracy.
                    Prosody, as a science, was unknown to him, but there was no form of metrical composition that he did
                    not use, and in most of them, especially the difficult sonnet, he was master. He never lived on a
                    farm, and yet he knew the farmer and all his ways and works. He spent most of his time in the cities
                    and towns, yet he knew the fields and woods and streams in all their variations. He never seemed to
                    be busy, yet he was a tireless worker, by night more than by day. He fathomed all the depths of
                    children's natures, and yet he never was continuously or closely associated with children.
                    He loved childhood as well as children. He was not a "mixer" among men and yet he
                    knew human nature. How did he do it? Ah, there comes in Genius, which was his by the gift of God.
            His business sense was entirely undeveloped. Figures, unless they were figures of speech, were wholly
                    useless to him. He once said that he "couldn't tell twice ten from twice
                    eternity." His ideas of time, too, were largely at the mercy of the work he had in hand. If
                    the work were finished, the appointment would be kept. He was likely to miss any train on which he
                    was to travel, and his bump of orientation, or notion of direction, was a deep depression. He could
                    get lost in a pasture lot.
            His humor defies description. One of his friends said  of it:
                    "No man with any sense of humor would try to define Mr. Riley's humor. When the
                    last trumpet blows there will be two things still mocking the encyclopedists—the mystery
                    of the eternal feminine and the mystery of the humor of the eternal Riley.
            It may be said, in passing, that he toyed but little with "the eternal feminine,"
                    for he died a bachelor.
            What Riley learned at his mother's knee about religion stayed with him through life. He was
                    a mystic at times, reaching out after the unknowable, toying now and then with spiritualism, but
                    ever answering honest doubt with a deep faith in God and a sure hope of immortality that grew
                    finally into firm convictions. His writings are full of positive utterances that confirm these views
                    and give assurance that he was at heart a deeply religious man. The broad hopefulness and optimistic
                    tendency of his philosophy, coupled with this devout sentiment of religion, made him a safe and
                    helpful teacher of men. His works glow with lines like these, 
                        Dear Lord! Kind Lord! Gracious Lord! I pray Thou wilt look on all I love, Tenderly to-day!
                            Weed their hearts of weariness Scatter every care Down a wake of angel-wings Winnowing the
                            air.
                        Bring unto the sorrowing All release from pain; Let the lips of laughter Overflow again; And
                            with all the needy O divide, I pray, This vast treasure of content That is mine to-day.
                    or these: 
                        My religion is to jest Do by all my level-best, Feelin' God'll do the rest-
                            Facts is, fur as I can see, The Good-Bein' makin' me, 'll make me
                            what I ort to be.
                    Read the lines, "We Must Believe," on the immortality of the
                    soul—too long to quote.
            
            He was always looking for the good in people. In a single line, in one of his poems, he announced his
                    belief "That the bad are as good, as the good are bad." Once he expressed this
                    trait of character in a single stanza, worthy to have place in the creed of all of us: 
                        There's a space for good to bloom in Every heart of man or woman,— And
                            however wild or human, Or however brimmed with gall, Never heart may beat without it; And
                            the darkest heart to doubt it Has something good about it After all.
                    
            
            Of all the poems of consolation and comfort that Riley wrote, the one called "Kissing the
                    Rod" is to my mind fullest of beauty and cheer to tired and discouraged souls. It is brief,
                    and always worthy of repetition. I quote the last stanza as a further example of his wondrous
                    faculty of combining sound and sense and sentiment into a work of art: 
                        For, we know, not every morrow Can be sad; So, forgetting all the sorrow We have had, Let us
                            fold away our fears, And put by our foolish tears, And through all the coming years, Just be
                            glad.
                    
            
            For many years he lived a rather unsettled life here in Indiana and on the road, having no permanent
                    abiding place and no ties that bound him to what might be called a home. Twenty-four years before he
                    died, however, and after Fortune had smiled upon him and his fame was established, Fate and the
                    kindest of friends guided his bachelor steps into a quiet and ideal habitation, and provided for him
                    a home to the end of his life.
            This house in "rhyme-haunted" Lockerbie Street was presided over by a beautiful,
                    refined and lovely woman. As the years went on, out of that harmonious household, she suffered the
                    loss of father and mother and her talented husband; and then she continued, in sickness and health,
                    with unfailing devotion, to minister in the kindliest way to the comfort of the gifted poet, whose
                    welfare she had assumed  and who was largely dependent on her.
                    It was a relationship wholly disinterested on her part, and one singularly fortunate for him,
                    because of the partial paralysis that touched him during the few closing years of his life. Her home
                    became a veritable shrine, where admiring friends from all parts of the country, as well as from
                    abroad, visited him. Here the children came in joyous groups to greet him on his birthdays; here was
                    a retired spot where he read and pondered and wrote; and here he died in the fullness of time,
                    "the best-loved citizen of the Hoosier Commonwealth."
            He has been gone from us now for many years, and his life, seen in perspective, appears to us a very
                    even one. Honors came to him in due time, without a struggle, plentifully and while he lived, but
                    they did not spoil him. He accepted them gratefully and humbly; then he went on being himself. If he
                    had enemies in the world, they were silent ones. He did not have to wait too long for Fame; it
                    overtook and overwhelmed him. His roses came to him while he was alive. And what a heritage he left
                    us! Books, beloved books, full of poetry and prose that appeal to the hearts of young and old, many
                    of them veritable treasure-houses of the gems that sparkle in literature—too beautiful
                    ever to lose their splendor.
         
         
         
            John W. Foster, Soldier and Politician
            DANIEL W. SNEPP
            
            Indiana's sons have occupied a number of important governmental offices in 
                        Washington
                     and diplomatic posts abroad. No Hoosier, however, has served his country longer or more
                    faithfully than John Watson Foster. His public life spans a half century of diplomatic conflict in
                    which the 
                        United States
                     rose to the undisputed position of a world power. In the present generation, few,
                    except students of diplomatic history and international law, have heard the name of John W. Foster
                    or read his scholarly works on diplomacy and world peace. No published biography has yet recorded
                    his achievements and no monument has been raised to perpetuate his memory. Nevertheless this obscure
                    man was regarded by Ambassador James Bryce as "the most distinguished diplomat of our
                    time," and by Secretary of State Frelinghuysen as the most valuable man in foreign service
                    in his day. Mr. Foster represented the 
                        United States
                     upon more different missions of first rank than any other person, and was accordingly
                    called by Chauncey M. DePew, "the handy-man of the State Department." Andrew
                    Johnson excepted, Foster served in one capacity or another under every president from Abraham
                    Lincoln to Theodore Roosevelt. Diplomacy was to Foster not merely a calling, it was a profession.
                    This article, however, is concerned only with that part of his life spent in Indiana.
            Foster's English ancestry may be traced to the hardy tradespeople on his mother's
                    side and to the staunch yeoman class on his father's side. The strain of the depression
                    which followed on the heels of the Napoleonic Wars in 
                        England
                    , fell most severely upon the middle class, great numbers of whom migrated to America.
                    Among the earliest of these emigrants was the family of George Foster, of which Matthew was the
                    youngest son.
            The elder Foster settled with his family on a 
                        New York
                     farm, which, though small, was all that his meager savings could buy. He soon
                    discovered that the farm could not be made to produce enough to support the family. Matthew was then
                    seventeen years old and eager for adventure. He was confident that cheaper and richer land could be
                    found in the West and therefore decided to go in search of it. For days and  weeks he trudged the mountains of 
                        New York
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , through the dense forests of 
                        Ohio
                     and Indiana, and across the prairies of 
                        Illinois
                     to 
                        St. Louis
                    , walking all the way, except when he was fortunate enough to secure an occasional ride
                    on a mover's wagon going his way.
            Matthew soon realized from the talk then current in 
                        St. Louis
                     that slavery would be recognized in the new constitution of 
                        Missouri
                    . Being a strong opponent of the institution, he would not locate in a slaveholding
                    state, therefore he resolved to retrace his journey eastward. On his return he decided to look once
                    more at some land which had attracted his attention on his long western journey. An investigation
                    resulted in the selection of the future home of the Fosters in what is now 
                        Pike County
                    , Indiana.
            On August 8, 1819, Matthew Foster purchased from the 
                        United States
                     Land Office at 
                        Vincennes
                     the following described real estate: "The West half of the Southwest quarter
                    of Section 25, Town 1 North, Range 7 West, being eighty acres."1 The
                    farm was located about seven miles northeast of Petersburg. The settlers in the neighborhood
                    assisted in building the two-room cabin. As soon as it was completed he brought his aged parents to
                    spend with him the remainder of their lives.
            Matthew Foster was united in marriage on June 18,1839, with Eleanor Johnson. The bride was the eldest
                    daughter of Colonel John Johnson who had been a prominent figure in the history of Indiana
                    Territory. He had filled the offices of private secretary to Governor William Henry Harrison, was a
                    delegate to the territorial legislature, member of the first state constitutional convention, and
                    trustee of 
                        Vincennes
                     University.
            Matthew Foster's formal education was meager. It is said that he often rode all day to
                    acquire books and that he read all that were obtainable in three counties.2
                    After he was made probate judge of 
                        Pike County
                     he mastered the state statutes and Blackstone's Commentaries. He was thoroughly convinced that a good education was the richest heritage that
                    a parent could possibly leave to his children. In 1846 he moved his family to 
                        Evansville
                     where better schools were available. In this city, he established a drygoods and
                    grocery business which in a few years expanded to tri-state proportions.
            
               
                  1 Entry in office of County Recorder, 
                            Pike County
                        . Indiana.
               
                  2 John W. Foster, Matthew Watson Foster (
                            Washington
                        , 1896), 31.
            
            
            He had a keen insight for business opportunities and saw numerous advantages for growth in 
                        Evansville
                    , then a city of four thousand, but realized that much improvement was necessary if
                    these advantages should be capitalized. He worked for the establishment of a Board of Trade which
                    would bring industries to the city and enlarge its trade area. He assisted in the establishment of
                    the public school system, in the construction of the 
                        Evansville
                     and 
                        Crawfordsville
                     Railroad, and in the erection of the river wharf. He served as a director of the 
                        Evansville
                     branch of the Indiana State Bank, and for many years was a member of the Common
                    Council. He was a staunch anti-slavery man and became one of the leaders of the Republican Party in
                    Vanderburg County.
            The six children of Matthew and Eleanor Johnson Foster received an education far above the average of
                    the time. The education of John W., who was born in 
                        Pike County
                    , March 2, 1836, was closely supervised by his father. For a short time after coming to 
                        Evansville
                    , John attended a German school, but the major part of his preparatory training was
                    acquired in a private academy presided over by Professor Myron Safford.
            In looking about for a higher institution of learning for his son it was natural that Matthew Foster
                    should select Indiana University. It was then largely dominated by the Presbyterian Church of which
                    he was a devout member. Its curriculum was highly classical, and it was reasonably near 
                        Evansville
                    . John at this time was a lad of only fifteen and needed the close observation and
                    encouragement of his father.
            In the fall of 1851, Matthew took his son to 
                        Bloomington
                     to enter the University. The trip was made in four days over rough and unfrequented
                    roads through wooded districts, and in a buggy pulled by two horses. Although Matthew found this
                    journey quite difficult, he made it a number of times to keep in touch with the educational progress
                    of his son. He wrote a number of fatherly letters, both encouraging and affectionate, but, when he
                    sensed a drifting away of the college youth from parental teachings, he made it known in terms not
                    to be misunderstood. This fact is well illustrated in the following letter: 
                  
                     
                        Your last letter was dated the 8th ultimo, which was promptly replied to, and in
                                    which I enclosed your twenty dollars. Not having your  acknowledgement of the receipt of it, I began to think
                                    it must have miscarried; and indeed, from your silence, I am fearful something must
                                    be the matter with you, either disabled by sickness, or your absence has worked a
                                    change in your feelings, so that you feel no interest about your home associations,
                                    and only deem it necessary to write as a matter of business which can be put off
                                    until a more convenient season….
                        It is not necessary to have the latest news, nor to see much of the world to make a
                                    letter interesting from a son to a parent…. In the welfare of a child a
                                    parent always takes a great interest in knowing your boarding-house arrangements
                                    … your room-mate, his disposition, his employment…. Little
                                    incidents attending you, impressions that are daily forming your mind and molding
                                    your will, have far more interest to me than all the foreign and domestic items of
                                    all dailies you could quote were you in 
                                        New York
                                     or 
                                        Philadelphia
                                    . Tell me your thoughts, feelings and impressions. I would take more
                                    interest (as I feel more than anyone else) in pointing out errors and in directing
                                    you to truth, as far, as my experience and observations have aided me in finding
                                        them.3
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            John W. Foster was graduated as the valedictorian of his class in 1855, at the age of nineteen. The
                    following year he took a post-graduate course in the 
                        Harvard
                     University Law School. After one year of apprenticeship in a 
                        Cincinnati
                     law office, he became associated with the law firm of Conrad Baker in 
                        Evansville
                    , a connection which he retained until the outbreak of the Civil War.
            The young lawyer was in no hurry to join the army. Two days after Lincoln's first call for
                    volunteers he seriously considered joining the colors, but enlisting progressed so rapidly that he
                    was unable to determine his course until the quota was filled. For several reasons, Foster decided
                    to postpone his final decision: he had no desire for military glory; he thought himself physically
                    unfit to withstand the vigorous training and hard life to which a soldier was subjected, since in
                    his younger days he had been tubercular; he considered war as the greatest of human follies, having
                    given during his college days speeches on the futility of war as a means of settling disputes;
                    finally, he had established a home and a creditable law practice, both of which he was reluctant to
                        leave.4
            
            When the second call for volunteers came, Foster could resist no longer. On July 24, 1861, he went to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to enlist in the regiment of volunteers known as the Twenty-fifth 
                  
                     3
                            Ibid., 59–60.
                  
                     4 John W. Foster, War Stories for my Grandchildren (
                                Washington
                            , 1918), 2.
               
                     Indiana and was appointed Major. The composition of this unit,
                    according to the 
                        Missouri
                    
                    Democrat was above the average. It consisted almost entirely of hardy farm boys
                    from the southern Indiana counties of Vanderburg, 
                  Spencer, Warrick
               , Posey and Gibson,
                    numbering in all one thousand forty-six.
            The officers in charge possessed very little training for their respective positions. Colonel James
                    C. Veatch of Rock-port had no recommendation except his services in the election of Mr. Lincoln in
                    the previous year. Lieutenant Colonel William H. Morgan of 
                        Crawfordsville
                     had served only a few months as a captain in the 
                        Virginia
                     Campaign.5 John W. Foster's appointment as Major came as a
                    direct result of the service which he and his father had performed in the establishment of a
                    formidable Republican organization in the southwestern part of Indiana. Notwithstanding the
                    inadequate military training and experience on the part of the officers, they applied themselves to
                    the mastery of the grave task confronting them and comprehended readily the grave responsibility
                    which the government had placed in their hands.
            The regiment went into training at Camp Vanderburg which was on the site of the old Fair Grounds in 
                        Evansville
                    . On August 22, thirteen days after organization, the Twenty-fifth Indiana received
                    orders to move to 
                        St. Louis
                    , where it was eventually to join an army being formed under General John C. Fremont to
                    drive the Confederates out of 
                        Missouri
                    . In this campaign the regiment tasted of battle but once. It assisted General John
                    Pope's Division in capturing thirteen hundred prisoners south of Warrensburg. The time was
                    largely spent in moving from place to place in pursuit of the enemy. The greatest enemy, however,
                    proved to be, not the Confederates, but epidemics of diarrhea, fever and measles which placed more
                    than half the men in hospitals.
            On January 30, 1862, the Twenty-fifth Indiana received orders to take the steamer to Cairo, 
                        Illinois
                    . Where they were to go from Cairo was not known, but the boys were eager for action.
                    They left 
                        St. Louis
                     on February 2 and arrived at Fort Henry eight days later. This fort had surrendered on
                    the sixth. From here the regiment marched to Fort Donelson, a distance of eleven miles, where it
                    joined the force of General U. S. Grant.
            
               
                  5
                        
                            Evansville
                        
                        Journal, Aug. 12, 1861.
            
            
            Fort Donelson was a much stronger position than Fort Henry. It was located on a bluff overlooking the
                        Cumberland River and was armed with twenty heavy guns which were mounted on
                    parapets and arranged in two tiers. When the river was high, the guns of the upper tier were very
                    effective; but should the river be low they could not be used to advantage.6
            
            General Charles F. Smith's Division, of which the Twenty-fifth Indiana was a part, took its
                    position on the extreme left of Grant's army. From this point Confederate fortifications
                    and rifle pits were clearly visible. The opposing armies were on opposite ridges.
            In the early morning of February 13, the day after Foster's regiment had arrived, the battle
                    opened. In the first encounter, the orders were to attack the enemy's center. The enemy
                    breastworks were situated on the hilltop. Heavy timber had been felled directly in front, forming a
                    dense mass of logs and brush. Through and over these obstacles the boys of the Twenty-fifth Indiana
                    advanced in the face of the enemy's fire; but when within one hundred and fifty yards of
                    their objective, the fire of grape and canister from well-directed confederate batteries halted the
                    Union line. The soldiers were ordered to lie down to escape the harassing fire. Meanwhile a band of
                    Union sharpshooters was detailed to move into the woods to the right and pick off the Confederate
                    gunners. This hushed the artillery until the ranks had retired to the bottom of the hill.7
            
            On February 15 the Confederates made a sharp attack on the Union army's right wing which was
                    forced to retreat. Smith then ordered his division into battle which brought Foster's
                    regiment again into action. Down into the ravine and up the hill towards the enemy they went,
                    struggling through the fallen timber with bullets whistling among their ranks. When the front column
                    reached the entrenchments, the enemy fled.8
            
            On the following day, the fort surrendered and the Twenty-fifth Indiana was ordered to move directly
                    to Fort Henry en route southward, the destination not then generally 
                  
                     6
                            Ibid., Feb. 17, 1862.
                  
                     7
                            War of the Rebellion: Official Records of the Union and Confederate Armies (
                                Washington
                            , 1882) Series I, Vol. VII. No. 30, 228. This work is cited as Rebellion Records in later references.
                  
                     8 Foster, War Stories, 41.
               
                     known.9 At Fort Henry the troops embarked
                    and moved up the river, stopping occasionally at certain river towns and adding further contingents
                    of troops to their number. On March 18, they reached Pittsburg Landing where they went into camp.
            General Albert Sidney Johnston was at this time concentrating a well-disciplined army of
                    fifty-thousand men in the vicinity of Corinth, 
                        Mississippi
                    , an important railroad center about twenty miles from the Union camp. When General
                    Johnston's army attacked, the Union forces were wholly unprepared for the emergency. The
                    officers in charge seemed unaware of the approach of the Confederates. Neither fortifications nor
                    intrenchments had been thrown up to protect the camp. Major Foster himself spent a rather carefree
                    day on April 3, according to a letter to his wife. He described a long leisurely ride into the
                    "beautiful country" about Pittsburg Landing. At that time the troops under General
                    Johnston were receiving orders to march, and on the next day the entire Confederate army was moving
                    from Corinth. After a difficult march, Johnston was ready to strike on the fifth. However, he
                    preferred to wait until the sixth when his complete battle line could be formed and a concerted
                    attack upon Grant's army could be organized. Accordingly early Sunday morning, April 6, the
                    Confederate batteries began shelling the Union positions.
            The ferocity of the engagement in which the Twenty-fifth Indiana participated is ably described in
                    Foster's own account to Colonel Veatch, dated April 11, 1862: 
                        Early on the morning of Sunday, April 6, 1862, in conformity with your orders, the
                            Twenty-fifth Indiana Regiment of Volunteers was marched out of its quarters and took its
                            position in the brigade…. After remaining in the position for nearly an hour the
                            forces which were engaging the enemy were driven back from our front, and a large part of
                            the retreating column passed directly through our lines, but the regiment continued unbroken
                            and presented as steady a front as the receding forces would allow…. At this
                            particular time Colonel Veatch gave the order to change our front to the rear on the left
                            company, one hundred yards back from our first position…. The regiment executed
                            this movement in good order and coolness under heavy fire of musketry and artillery on our
                            left, and hardly had our regiment taken its position when the immense double columns of the
                            enemy were fairly in view, emerging from the timber and thick under- 
                        
                           9 T. F. Scribner, Indiana's Roll of
                                        Honor (
                                        Indianapolis
                                    . 1866). II. 509.
                     
                             growth. The order was given immediately to lie down. It
                            had hardly been executed when the enemy opened upon us one continued blaze of musketry along
                            our whole line and on the right and left of us.10
                  
                    
            
            At this juncture in the battle, Lieutenant Colonel Morgan received a severe wound and had to be
                    carried from the field. Foster, however, did not see Morgan fall as he was on the left and some
                    undergrowth concealed him. The captains who had been fighting under Morgan were now thrown into
                    confusion. The regiment retreated another hundred yards. Foster in desperation planted the flag
                    against a fallen tree, and, waving his hat, called upon his men to rally about their colors. They
                    obeyed as did also the right wing which had been commanded by Morgan. Colonel Veatch in commenting
                    upon this act of Foster said: 
                        The loss of his [Morgan's] services was severely felt by both officers and men. The
                            command devolved upon Major Foster, who proved himself in every way worthy of it. He was
                            active, brave and energetic, inspiring his men with courage and confidence….11
                  
                    
            
            The remainder of the day's fighting resulted in a complete victory for the Confederates.
                    When night came, the men, tired, exhausted, and hungry, lay down on the field in the line of battle
                    formed by the Fourth Division for the defense of Pittsburg Landing. Here they rested on their arms
                    during the heavy rain storm of that night.
            The second day's battle presented a reorganized army with General Don Buell on the left and
                    center, General Lew Wallace on the right, and General Grant following behind to hold the ground as
                    it fell into Union hands. The brigade of which the Twenty-fifth was a part received orders to move
                    to the front and center where it was to charge the retreating enemy, but the enemy retreated so
                    rapidly that it could be reached only by the cavalry. The second day, April 7, gave victory to the
                    North.
            The victorious troops then pressed on towards Corinth driving the enemy's pickets in front
                    of them and fortifying the positions as they advanced. As the Union forces approached, the
                    Confederates evacuated the town, leaving it partly in ruins. Foster says: "The fearful
                    ravages of war are visible 
                  
                     10 Foster to Col. Veatch, April 11, 1862, in Rebellion
                                Records, Series I, Vol. X., Part I, 230.
                  
                     11 Veatch to Captain Smith D. Atkins, April 10, 1862, in ibid.,
                        222.
               
                     on all sides, in the charred walls, solitary chimneys, smoked
                    ruins and wastes all around."12
            
            After leaving Corinth Grant divided his army. General Buell moved towards 
                        Chattanooga
                     while Sherman went in the direction of 
                        Memphis
                    . Foster's regiment was detailed to reinforce Sherman. On June 10, the
                    Twenty-fifth Indiana was ordered to Holly Springs with instructions to destroy the 
                        Mississippi
                     Central Railroad.13 This errand required five days and proved to be
                    the last service performed by Foster in this regiment. He was summoned to the bedside of his
                    brother-in-law, Lieutenant Alexander McFerson who was ill with typhoid fever at LaGrange, 
                        Tennessee
                    , a few miles from Foster's camp. McFerson died June 27, and Foster brought the
                    body to 
                        Evansville
                    . He was never again to return to his regiment.
            At this time there was considerable excitement on both sides of the 
                        Ohio
                     in and around 
                        Evansville
                    . Guerilla bands were roaming through the western part of 
                        Kentucky
                    , just south of the river in an effort to gain recruits and horses for the Confederate
                    armies. On July 18, 1862, the little town of Newburg, located on the 
                        Ohio
                     nine miles above 
                        Evansville
                    , was captured by General Adam Johnson. His small band crossed the River in skiffs and
                    ferry boats and, without firing a shot, captured the peaceful little town, including hospitals and
                    military stores. Soon the report of Newburg's capture reached 
                        Evansville
                     and the home guard, which was then in camp at Sunset Park, was sent to the relief of
                    the town. When the home guard arrived at Newburg, Johnson had escaped across the River with his
                    booty. However, they destroyed the boats which the enemy had used to cross the river and executed
                    two local citizens who were found to be Confederate sympathizers.
            Governor Oliver P. Morton was quick to sense the extreme danger that confronted the southwestern part
                    of Indiana. He established headquarters in 
                        Evansville
                     for state troops and sent additional levies to reinforce this section. Foster was asked
                    to take charge of these "irregular levies" and proceed at once to occupy
                    Henderson, which was to be used as a base of operations against the guerillas operating in western 
                        Kentucky
                    . On July 26, 1862, Jeremiah Boyle, in command of the 
                  
                     12 Foster to his wife, June 1, 1862, in War Stories,
                            89.
                  
                     13 Scribner, Indiana's Roll of Honor, II,
                            511.
               
                    
                    
                        United States
                     troops in 
                        Kentucky
                    , formally appointed Foster to command the area between the Green and Cumberland Rivers,
                    and to take every precaution to rid it of the guerillas who were-causing considerable damage to the
                    Union cause.14
            
            Most of the disloyal disturbance in this section was traced to isolated groups of men whom Foster was
                    easily able to suppress. However, rumors frequently floated about that General John Morgan and his
                    men were about to enter western 
                        Kentucky
                    . So often did these stories reach Foster that they began to lose their effectiveness.
                    Finally, Morgan did venture into the area, and Foster was ordered to concentrate his forces on the
                    Green River and lie in wait for him. Morgan, however, moved in a northerly direction and crossed the 
                        Ohio
                     at 
                        Brandenburg
                    , Indiana. He terrorized the southeastern part of the state, but the pursuit ended with
                    his capture at Salinesville, 
                        Ohio
                    , on July 26, 1863. The removal of this dangerous raider enabled the North to release
                    from 
                        Kentucky
                     a portion of its forces for service in other parts of the country. The Sixty-fifth
                    Indiana, Foster's regiment, was among those sent into service elsewhere. On August 7 Foster
                    received orders to move his troops to 
                  Glasgow,
                            Kentucky
               , where he should await the
                    concentration of the forces which were to make up the army of General Ambrose E. Burnside. This army
                    would then advance into Eastern 
                        Tennessee
                    .
            When Foster arrived at 
                        Glasgow
                     orders were awaiting him to move towards 
                        Knoxville
                    
                    via Jamestown, 
                        Tennessee
                    . The journey had to be made through a hilly and rugged region and the advance
                    consequently was slow. Grain and straw for the horses were gathered along the way. Fortunately a
                    great number of Union sympathizers lived in that locality.
            On September 1 General Burnside commanded Foster to proceed to the 
                        Knoxville
                     Road and, if possible force a passage through Winter's Gap. This movement
                    would flank the enemy's right and cause it to retreat. Two hours after receiving the
                    instructions Foster had formed his brigade and was rapidly pressing towards his objective. He
                    arrived at Winter's Gap at sundown. To his great astonishment the enemy had fled. He then
                    pushed on towards 
                        Knoxville
                     and occupied the town with practically no resistance.
            
               
                  14 Foster, War Stories, 96.
            
            
            Foster described very graphically his reception by the hard-pressed and half-starved inhabitants:
                        
                        Such an ovation as we received was never before during this war given any army….
                            Men, women, and children rushed to the streets,—no camp-meeting shouting ever
                            exceeded the rejoicing of the women. They ran into the streets shouting, "Glory!
                            Glory! The Lord be praised! Our Savior's come!" and all such
                            exclamations…. As soon as I could get to a hotel I was waited upon by the Mayor
                            (a true Union man) and a number of loyal men, prominent citizens, and they received me with
                            heartiest congratulations and welcome…. It does soldiers good to fight for such a
                            people. It is a labor of love. Every soldier in my brigade has been paid a hundred times
                            over since we came into East 
                                Tennessee
                             for all our hardships, short rations and exposures, by the hearty welcome of
                            the people.15
                  
                    
            
            At the time when Burnside was engaged in clearing the Confederates out of East 
                        Tennessee
                    , prospects for a Union victory at 
                        Chattanooga
                     were anything but encouraging. Rosecrans had already received a tremendous blow at
                    Chickamauga, and Burnside had been ordered to withdraw his activities above 
                        Knoxville
                     and support Rosecrans with all the troops he could spare.16
                    Foster's brigade was among those designated to go to the relief of 
                        Chattanooga
                    . He was ordered to move to Loudon, a small town located about one-third the distance
                    from 
                        Knoxville
                     to 
                        Chattanooga
                    , where he was to hold his men in readiness to depart for Northern 
                        Georgia
                    . From there he was to harass the rear of General Bragg's army and destroy the
                    railroads in that part of the State. His plans had been definitely completed, the guides selected,
                    and rations apportioned when General Halleck called off the expedition. This was a disappointment to
                    Foster's brigade as the men had hoped to see service in the 
                        Chattanooga
                     campaign.
            General Bragg, expecting Burnside to move down the Valley to aid Rosecrans, sent Longstreet to lay
                    siege to 
                        Knoxville
                    . Foster's brigade17 was stationed at Tasewell on the main
                    route to 
                        Cumberland Gap
                     to keep the lines of communication open above 
                        Knoxville
                    . Burnside had rations to maintain his army for two weeks and 
                        Knoxville
                     was well fortified. On December 5 Longstreet abandoned the siege and moved 
                  
                     15 Foster to his wife, Sept. 2, 1863, in War
                            Stories, 123–125.
                  
                     16 Foster, War Stories, 136.
                  
                     17 At this time the Fourth Brigade, which was in command of John W.
                            Foster, consisted of the Fourteenth 
                                Illinois
                             Cavalry, Fifth Indiana Cavalry, Sixty-fifth Indiana Infantry, Ninth 
                                Ohio
                             Cavalry, Eighth 
                                Tennessee
                             Cavalry and an 
                                Illinois
                             Light Battery. Rebellion Records. Series I, Vol. III, Part
                            III, 809.
               
                     into 
                        Virginia
                    . The following day Sherman moved into the city. The successful holding of 
                        Knoxville
                     was probably the greatest accomplishment of Burnside's military career. Had he
                    surrendered, East 
                        Tennessee
                     would have fallen into the hands of the Confederates.
            It was now the middle of January, 1864, and activities in East 
                        Tennessee
                     had ceased. For sometime Foster had longed to visit his family in 
                        Evansville
                     and take care of urgent business matters that were demanding his attention. He
                    requested of General John G. Foster, who had replaced Burnside, a leave of absence, and it was
                    granted.
            Matthew, the father of John W., died in 
                        Evansville
                     on April 13, 1863, leaving a modest estate of real and personal property. He had
                    designated John W. as the executor of the estate and the guardian of his two minor children. In the
                    previous August, the court had informed Foster that he should proceed at once to close up the
                    business of the estate, but agreed to postpone the matter until he could return home on leave.
            When Foster arrived in 
                        Evansville
                    , he turned his attention to the settling of the estate which he soon discovered would
                    require more time than his leave of absence would permit. He therefore tendered his resignation to
                    General Samuel Sturgis who was in command of Foster's cavalry corps. Sturgis then forwarded
                    the resignation to the Departmental General with the following letter of regret: 
                        In approving this resignation, I cannot refrain from expressing my deep regret on parting
                            with so intelligent, energetic, and brave an officer…. Yet after so long and
                            faithful service he [Foster] should be, I think, relieved under the circumstances. His loss,
                            however, will be severely felt in this corps and his place hard to fill.18
                  
                    
            
            While in Eastern 
                        Tennessee
                    , Foster, in letters to his wife, expressed devotion to his duty as a soldier. At the
                    same time these letters were filled with the desire to end his military career and return to his
                    home. The estate of his father was soon settled, but Foster's stay in private life was
                    short, for he was again called into his country's service. In the spring of 1864, Sherman
                    began his memorable march to the sea. In order to support Sherman in this campaign it was necessary
                        
                  
                     18 General John G. Foster to General Samuel Sturgis (n.d.). in Foster,
                                War Stories, 168–159. John G. Foster had succeeded General
                            Burnside as Department General.
               
                     that the railroad communications be maintained from 
                        Louisville
                     to 
                        Chattanooga
                     and beyond as the army advanced.
            President Lincoln granted the request of the governors of 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                        Iowa
                    , and 
                        Wisconsin
                     to raise a force to guard Sherman's line of communication. These soldiers were
                    to serve for one-hundred days. Indiana contributed eight regiments to this army. It was natural that
                    Governor Morton, in looking for leaders of these regiments, should select experienced and capable
                    men. He offered Foster a commission as Colonel of the One Hundred Thirty-sixth Regiment made up of
                    recruits from 
                        Evansville
                     and the counties surrounding Vanderburg. Foster accepted and, on May 23, 1864, his new
                    regiment was mustered into service at 
                        Indianapolis
                    . From there it proceeded to Elizabethtown, 
                        Kentucky
                    , but later established headquarters at Murfreesboro, 
                        Tennessee
                    . The position had been well fortified with strong earthworks and rifle pits by the army
                    of Rosecrans which had met the Confederate army of Bragg on December 31, 1862, at this point. Here
                    the One Hundred Thirty-sixth regiment spent the remainder of its hundred days without even a
                    skirmish with the enemy.
            Again Foster returned to private life. He had seen service for three years as major, lieutenant
                    colonel, and colonel. When he enlisted, he viewed war with horror and dread. However, the rigid
                    military drill to which he was subjected in preparation for battle inspired him with a desire to get
                    into action against the enemy. He actually admitted having described the bloody battle of 
                        Shiloh
                     as "grand beyond description." In the excitement and heat of battle
                    with comrades falling on either side the danger to one's self is greatly minimized.
            Foster's views on war can best be summarized in his own words: 
                        But my life in the army did not alter the views I had formed in my college life of the horror
                            and brutality of war, but rather strengthened and confirmed them. I witnessed the sad
                            effects of the conflict in dividing and embittering brothers of the same blood, the ravages
                            of the battlefield and hospital, the valuable lives lost and the widows and orphans, the
                            enormous expenditure of money, and the great war debt and pensions to be paid by a coming
                            generation. All these evils might have been avoided by a peaceful adjustment of the
                            questions which were settled by the armed conflict…. There is a certain glamor
                            about warfare which attracts the participant, but it is fictitious and un-  christian. I pray God that our country may be delivered from
                            its horrors in the future.19
                  
                    
            
            The generation living today can not but recognize the wisdom of Mr. Foster's view on war.
                    Warfare levies a heavy toll upon the human race. Its diabolical consequences must be measured not
                    only in lives lost and propery destroyed, but in blasted hopes and wrecked careers. The trying years
                    of military life experienced by Mr. Foster contributed little to his legal, financial, and moral
                    growth. During the four years of law practice between his graduation from college and the outbreak
                    of the Civil War, Foster had cherished the high ambition of sometime becoming a lawyer comparable to
                    his great partner, Conrad Baker, later governor of Indiana. However, upon his return to private life
                    with those sordid memories of the fraticidal strife still pricking his conscience, his aspirations
                    to excel in law seem to have faded.
            Like many a soldier returning to private life, Foster was confronted with a momentous decision.
                    Should he continue his career in law by forming new contacts and rebuilding his lost practice, or,
                        like his father and brothers, enter the grocery business—a trade
                    inherent in the family from the Watsons in Durham County, 
                        England
                    , down to his own generation. The need of immediate money was a potent factor in the
                    decision, and so he allied himself with the grocery firm of "Foster Brothers" in 
                        Cincinnati
                    . Before many months had passed, he realized that his choice, although expedient, was
                    unwise. He had no fondness for the business which to him was unchallenging and decidedly
                    uninteresting. His active years spent as a student at Indiana University and 
                        Harvard
                    , as an apprentice in the law office, and as an officer in the Civil War did not train
                    him especially for the grocery business. He therefore gave up the venture and returned to 
                        Evansville
                    .20
            
            In 1866 Mr. Foster purchased an interest in the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Daily Journal. Under his management, 1866–1869, this became the most
                    influential Republican newspaper in Southern Indiana. Its progressive policies and scholarly
                    editorials reflected the vision and foresight of the editor. Through the 
                  
                     19 Foster, War Stories, 178. In the closing years of Mr.
                            Foster's life he was a member of the Board of the Carnegie Endowment for
                            International Peace and contributed numerous articles on the outlawry of war.
                  
                     20 Collections of Mrs. Emily Orr Clifford, 
                                Evansville
                            , Indiana.
               
                     wide circulation and influence of the Journal
                    he developed among the Republican leaders of Indiana a wide acquaintance which contributed greatly
                    to his future political advancement.
            Ex-governor Morton, who remembered so well the services of Mr. Foster in the success of the new
                    Republican party in Vanderburg County and as a capable officer in the Union army, was now an
                    important leader in the 
                        United States
                     Senate. In 1869 Foster was appointed postmaster at 
                        Evansville
                    , largely through the influence of Morton.
            The next political service of Mr. Foster came in the spring of 1872 when he was appointed chairman of
                    the Republican State Committee. In Indiana a state party chairman assumes a herculean task. Since
                    the Civil War, Indiana has been one of the real battle-grounds in the nation's party
                    history and to this state have been detailed the most powerful orators and political strategists
                    that the opposing parties are able to muster. The state committees in both parties are carefully
                    chosen, and political talent is closely scrutinized to find capable men as state chairmen, for upon
                    their shoulders rests the responsibility of perfecting an organization which will bring victory.
                    Probably a more able state chairman than Mr. Foster could not have been found among the Republicans
                    of Southern Indiana.
            The most powerful force in Indiana's Republican organization in 1872 was Senator Morton. He
                    guided the party's policies and dictated its appointments. On March 4, 1867, he took his
                    seat in the 
                        United States
                     Senate. He later gained recognition from President Grant who accepted him as one of his
                    chief advisers. Morton was the influential party leader to whom Foster was indebted, more than to
                    any other, for his rise from obscurity to a place of prominence in state, and, eventually, in
                    national politics. Under the circumstances it was natural that Foster should look to Morton for
                    advice from time to time in completing the state party organization during the spring and summer of
                    1872.
            As early as March 15 Morton impressed upon Foster the necessity of placing upon the county tickets
                    men whose staunchness as Republicans could not be questioned. Especially was the Senator concerned
                    about the candidates for the  state legislature whose support he
                    would need for reelection to the 
                        United States
                     Senate.21
            
            On April 2 Morton wrote Foster a letter expressing his confidence: "We have the greatest
                    faith in your ability to organize the party and in your successful management of the campaign, and
                    believe you have already succeeded in greatly alarming the Democrats."22 Morton enclosed a check for two hundred dollars and his fellow Senator from Indiana, Daniel
                    W. Pratt, sent one hundred dollars for the good of the cause in the state.
            Mr. Foster accompanied the Indiana delegation to the Republican National Convention which met in 
                        Philadelphia
                     on June 5. From the beginning it was evident that General Grant would be renominated.
                    The interest of the convention very naturally centered on the vice-presidential nomination, for
                    which vice-president Schuyler Colfax of Indiana and Henry Wilson of 
                        Massachusetts
                     were the leading candidates. Sometime before the convention, Colfax had written a
                    letter to a friend expressing his intention of retiring from public life at the expiration of his
                    term on account of his "health and private interests." Colfax did not anticipate
                    the publication of the letter, but it reached the convention and was there made public.23 Despite this fact, Richard W. Thompson of Indiana placed the name of Colfax
                    before the convention. On the first ballot Wilson received three hundred sixty-four and one-half
                    votes while Colfax received three hundred twenty-one and one-half votes. The states rapidly changed
                    their votes from Colfax to Wilson who was nominated unanimously. The Indiana delegation swung over
                    to Wilson only when the last glimmer of hope for Colfax was gone. Thus both Grant and Wilson were
                    unanimously nominated as the standard-bearers of the Republican party in the campaign of 1872.
            At the convention, the leadership of Foster became recognized nationally. Colfax sent him the
                    following letter of congratulations: 
                        From every quarter I hear of your magnificent leadership in the exciting contest at 
                                Philadelphia
                            . You did not make a single mistake and you fought a combination [referring to
                            the Northeast which supported Wilson] of adverse circumstances and an opposition fertile in
                            resources 
                        
                           21 Morton to Foster, March 15, 1872. Faster
                                        Papers, Library of Congress.
                        
                           22 Morton to Foster, April 2, 1872. Ibid.
                        
                        
                           23
                                    
                                        Evansville
                                    
                                    Daily Journal, June 10, 1872.
                     
                             and manufacture…. Our state stood by me
                            nobly and I shall never forget you nor them. The contest has not left a sting behind, except
                            the disappointment of friends. "Whatever is, is right."24
                  
                    
            
            Morton was never overconfident as to the outlook for a Republican victory in Indiana. When he
                    conducted his speaking tour through the southern counties of Perry, 
                        Warrick
                    , and 
                        Spencer
                    , he realized that the sentiment for the opposition candidates, Horace Greeley and B.
                    Gratz 
                        Brown
                    , was very strong in that part of the State. Wherever Morton spoke in these counties,
                    Daniel Voorhees, the leading Democratic orator in the State, trailed him in later speaking
                        engagements.25
            
            During the campaign, Foster invited a number of Republican orators of national influence to give
                    speeches at certain designated points in the State. Among this number were Speaker of the House,
                    James G. Blaine, Representative James A. Garfield, Senator Benjamin F. Butler, Secretary of the
                    Treasury, George S. Boutwell, and Vive-president Colfax.
            Boutwell replied to Foster's invitation in the following letter: "I think that
                    whatever your exigencies may be, a cabinet officer can do you no good…. Upon further
                    consideration I think you and Governor Morton and our friends generally will take the same
                        view."26 Boutwell was probably right in his contention, as already
                    certain cabinet members, along with a few congressmen and even Vice-president Colfax, were under
                    suspicion in connection with the widespread political corruption prevailing during Grant's
                    first term.
            The type of leadership exercised by Mr. Foster in the campaign was clearly exemplified in the narrow
                    Republican victory in the October election. Only two Democrats were elected: Thomas A. Hendricks for
                    governor and 
                        Milton
                     Hopkins for state superintendent of public instructions.27 The 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Journal, in commenting upon the Republican campaign in Indiana, stated that those
                    who came into the state to 
                  
                     24 Colfax to Foster, June 10, 1872. Foster Papers,
                            Library of Congress.
                  
                     25 Morton to Foster (n.d.). Ibid.
                  
                  
                     26 Boutwell to Foster, Aug. 3, 1872. Ibid.
                  
                  
                            
                        27
                                
                                    Indianapolis
                                
                                Journal, Oct. 23, 1872, gives the official vote cast in the election
                                of Oct. 8, 1872.
                            For Governor: Thomas A. Hendricks (Dem.), 189,424
                            Thomas M. Browne (Rep.), 188,242
                            Of the remaining state officials, the Democrats won in only a single instance, 
                                    Milton
                                 Hopkins being chosen Superintendent of Public Instruction. It was a very
                                close election.
                        
               
                     assist in the campaign said that they had never seen a more
                    perfect party organization.28
            
            The state and national elections in Indiana as in many states occurred on different dates. Foster
                    remained faithfully at his post and managed the national campaign in the state until after the
                    presidential election of November 5. All realized from the close vote in the state election that
                    Grant and Wilson would have a hard battle. Colfax was persuaded once more to give his services in
                    behalf of the Republican cause in Indiana. Although his wife was seriously ill during a part of the
                    campaign, the Vice-president gave more speeches for the National ticket than all the vice-presidents
                    together had done before his time.29
            
            The returns of the national election gave Grant and Wilson the electoral vote of Indiana. To what
                    degree Foster and his organization could rightfully claim credit for this victory, it is indeed
                    difficult to say. Doubtless thousands of Democrats, like Senator Voorhees, thought it sacrilege to
                    support Greeley and 
                        Brown
                    . The Liberal wing of the Republican party had upon numerous occasions supported what
                    the Democrats had opposed, and opposed what the Democrats had supported. For the Liberal Republicans
                    and the Democrats to support one national ticket, headed by Greeley, was ludicrous.
            During the management of the Indiana campaign, Foster became intimately acquainted with a number of
                    party leaders of national reputation, among whom were: Schuyler Colfax, Benjamin Harrison, John
                    Sherman, William P. Frye, Carl Schurz, Robert Ingersoll, James G. Blaine and Frederick Douglass,
                    noted Negro orator.
            Various estimates may be made of Mr. Foster's work as chairman of the Indiana Republican
                    Committee, but all must admit that he was a man of high integrity, of excellent judgment, and of
                    unusual executive ability. He was a tireless worker who inspired confidence among his associates. He
                    disliked the evils, corruption, frauds, and lies generally associated with campaigns and elections,
                    and waged a relentless warfare against them. According to contemporaneous accounts 
                  
                     28
                            
                                Indianapolis
                            
                            Journal, Oct. 18, 1872.
                  
                     29 Colfax to Foster, Oct. 17, 1872. Foster Papers,
                            Library of Congress.
               
                     his campaign was remarkably free from such vicious
                        practices.30
            
            Probably the best estimate of Foster's work as a party manager was expressed by James G.
                    Blaine just five days after the national election in the following to Foster: 
                        I cannot allow this campaign to pass out of fresh memory without extending to you my cordial
                            congratulations upon the masterly manner in which you organized Indiana.
                        With fourteen years as Chairman of our own Committee I naturally observe somewhat closely the
                            tides and currents in other states, and I know from my own observation and from what others
                            have told me that your work was done with wonderful thoroughness….
                        If you visit 
                                Washington
                             during the coming winter, I beg that you will do me the honor to call at my
                            house—821 15th St., where you will find the latch-string out, and on pulling it
                            will find a Western welcome.31
                  
                    
            
            On November 15, Mr. Foster terminated his duties in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and left for his home in 
                        Evansville
                    , unaware of the fact that his faithful work as state chairman was to be rewarded by an
                    early appointment to a diplomatic post and that his service in the diplomatic field was to continue
                    for nearly half a century and was to bring him great distinction.
            In conclusion it may be added that while John W. Foster was to show great ability and iniative as a
                    diplomat and statesman, he was, while serving as a campaign manager in Indiana, seemingly oblivious
                    to the faults of Grant, Morton, Colfax and other prominent administration men at a time when many
                    honest Republican leaders blushed with shame. Foster's task in the contest of 1872 was to
                    prove himself a faithful party servant —to do well the job assigned by his superiors. In
                    this he did not fail.
            
               
                  30 This testimony was given to the writer by Judge J. J. LaFollette, after
                        his retirement as professor of law at Indiana University. Judge LaFollette was active in the
                        campaign of 1872 and actually made speeches in behalf of the state and national tickets under
                        Foster's direction.
               
                  31 Blaine to Foster, Nov. 10, 1872, in John W. Foster, Diplomatic Memoirs (
                            Boston
                        , 1909), I, 10–11.
            
         
         
         
            Octave Chanute: Pioneer Glider and Father of the Science of Aviation
            FRANK F. FOWLE
            
            We are meeting on this historic ground this afternoon with a dual purpose, to honor the genius of a
                    great engineer, and to mark the location where his pioneer experiments with gliders commenced an
                    epoch in the science and art of aviation in America.1 Octave Chanute was an
                    engineer of the old school, long since passed, who entered the profession many years before it was
                    possible to obtain any systematic education for it, and who acquired his technical training through
                    experience, study and self-improvement. It seems therefore all the more remarkable that he achieved
                    national distinction as an engineer in three different fields within his profession, all prior to
                    becoming seriously interested in aviation, which brought him his greatest honors and lasting fame.
            Chanute was born in 1832, a native of 
                        France
                    , and came to his adopted country at the age of six, when his father accepted the post
                    of vice-president of Jefferson College in 
                        Louisiana
                    . In 1844 they removed to 
                        New York
                     City, where Chanute completed his common-school education, and, to use his own
                    expression, became thoroughly Americanized.
            In 1849, at the age of seventeen, he entered railroad engineering with the Hudson River Railroad and
                    remained until the line was completed to 
                        Albany
                    . Coming west in 1853, he was successively in responsible engineering positions with the 
                        Chicago
                     & Alton, the 
                        Toledo
                    , Peoria & Western, the 
                        Pittsburgh
                    , the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     & 
                        Chicago
                    , the 
                        Ohio
                     & 
                        Mississippi
                    , the 
                        Kansas
                    , Fort Scott & 
                        Memphis
                    , and the southern 
                        Kansas
                     division of the Atchison, 
                        Topeka
                     & Santa Fe railroads. In 1867 he also designed and supervised construction of
                    the 
                        Chicago
                     Union Stock Yards and in 1871 the Union Stock Yards of 
                        Kansas
                     City. Chanute's ability as an engineer extended in many directions, but one of
                    his most remarkable early feats was the design and construction of the 
                        Kansas
                     City bridge in 1867–69, which was the pioneer structure built across the
                        
                  
                     1 This brief address was given at Gary, Indiana, on Saturday P.M.,
                            July 11, 1936. The occasion was the dedication of a bronze tablet marker to Octave Chanute,
                            at the site of his experiments with gliders in 1896 and 1897. The ceremonies were held in
                            Marquette Park.
               
                    
                    
                        Missouri
                     river. A well-known book describing this bridge was published by Chanute and Morrison
                    in 18702.
            Returning east in 1873 he served for ten years as Chief Engineer of the Erie Railroad through the
                    period of reconstruction. During this time he was also chairman of an engineering committee which
                    reported on the need for urban rapid transit in 
                        New York
                     City and their recommendations culminated in the construction of the four original
                    lines of elevated railroads, which are still in service today. In 1863 Chanute returned to 
                        Kansas
                     City and became a consultant in bridge design. In particular he had charge of design
                    and construction of iron bridges for the 
                  Chicago,
                            Burlington
                & Northern, and the
                    Atchison, 
                        Topeka
                     & Santa Fe, including the bridging of both the 
                        Missouri
                     and the 
                        Mississippi
                    .
            Still another pioneer field in which Chanute left his mark was that of the preservative treatment of
                    timber. For five years, from 1880 to 1885, he was chairman of a committee of the American Society of
                    Civil Engineers, which prepared a report that was regarded as authoratative for many years. In
                    consequence he was requested by several railroads, in 1885, to build plants for treating timber.
                    This led to his becoming interested in timber treatment as a business, which continued as long as he
                    lived.
            At an age when many successful men think of retiring, Chanute turned his attention to the subject
                    which had always fascinated him most, the problem of aerial navigation in heavier-than-air
                        machines.3 With that untiring industry and patience of which genius is
                    largely constituted, he attacked the problem by preparing an exhaustive summary of scientific 
                  
                     2 Octave Chanute (chief engineer) and George Morrison (assistant
                            engnieer), The 
                                    Kansas
                                 City Bridge (
                                New York
                            , 1870).
                  
                            
                        3 The facts presented in this address relative to the pioneer efforts
                                and accomplishments of Octave Chanute in the field of aviation were gathered mainly from
                                the following articles prepared by him: "Gliding Experiments," in Journal of the Westren Society of Engineers, Oct., 1897; "The 
                                    Kansas
                                 City Bridge in '69," in ibid. (Feb.,
                                1900), V, No. 1, 58–69; "Preservative Treatment of Timber,"
                                in ibid. (April, 1900), V, No. 2, 100–126;
                                "Address of Retiring President (Chanute), in ibid. (Feb., 1902), VII, No. 1,
                                1–9; "International Railway Congress of 1906," in ibid. (Oct., 1903), X, No. 5, 601–614; "Remarks
                                made in Response to Election as an Honorary Member (Chanute), in ibid.
                                (Feb., 1909), XIV, No. 1, 116–117; "Recent Progress in
                                Aviation," in ibid. (April, 1910), 111–147; "Progress in
                                Flying Machines," in American Engineer and Railroad Journal,
                                1894; "Recent Experiments in Gliding Flight," in The
                                    Aeronautical Annual, 1897, No. 8, 50–53; "Sailing
                                Flight," in ibid., 98–127; "Aerial Navigation," in
                                Smithsonian Institution, Annual. Report, 1903, 173–181.
                            Further information was obtained from the following references: A.M. Herring,
                                "Recent Advances toward a Solution of the Problem of the Century," in
                                    The Aeronautical Annual, 1897, No. 3, 64–74; Wilbur
                                Wright, "Experiments and Observations in Soaring Flight," in Journal of the Western Society of Engineers (Aug., 1903), VIII, No. 4,
                                400–417; Wilbur Wright, "Some Aeronautical Experiments." in
                                ibid. (Dec., 1900), VI. No. 6, 485–510; W.J. Jackman and Thomas A. Russell,
                                    Flying Machines: Construction and Operation (
                                    Chicago
                                , 1910).
                        
               
                     knowledge on the subject, and published it. This first appeared
                    in a series of twenty-seven articles in The Railroad and Engineering Journal,
                    commencing in 1891, and then in book form, in 1894, under the title Progress in Flying
                        Machines. Just before this book went to press, Chanute received a copy of Otto
                    Lilienthal's paper on "The Flying Man", describing the latter's
                    experiments with gliders in 
                        Germany
                     in 1893, which he then added as an appendix with the comment that Lilienthal's
                    paper "so fully sustains the views set forth in this book, and holds out such promise of
                    success in the near future, that it has been decided, at some inconvenience, to include a
                    translation of this paper in an extra appendix." The unselfish enthusiasm and scientific
                    attitude displayed by Chanute are obvious from these simple words just quoted.
            In these early writings he said there were ten fundamental problems which must be solved as a
                    pre-requisite to the establishment of successful artificial flight. The most important of these ten,
                    he declared, was the maintenance of equilibrium in the air, because until this was established there
                    would be no advantage in mastering the other nine. He also emphasized the inherent limitations on
                    theoretical analysis and experimentation with models, urging the importance of commencing
                    experimental flights with a full-sized machine carrying a pilot or navigator.
            Having made 
                        Chicago
                     his permanent home some years earlier, Chanute next prepared to make experimental
                    flights in gliders and selected for this purpose a location among the dunes on the south shore of
                        Lake Michigan, substantially north of Miller's Station, which was
                    then an isolated spot. Commencing his experiments in the summer of 1896 with a replica of
                    Lilienthal's glider, he soon concluded that this was inherently a defective and unsafe
                    machine. This conclusion was tragically confirmed by the fatal accident sustained by Lilienthal in
                    one of his glider experiments a few weeks later.
            Next he conducted a long series of experiments with multi-plane machines, ingeniously devised to
                    permit many different combinations of wing surfaces and controls. By this process of
                    experimentation, continued through the summer of 1897, he and his assistants finally evolved the
                    biplane constructed on the principle of the Pratt truss, which later was adopted by the Wright
                    brothers in their historic flights at  Kitty Hawk and Kill Devil
                    Hill on the sea-coast of 
                        North Carolina
                    . These glider experiments reached the rather amazing total of about 2,000 flights. They
                    were naturally rather short, both in distance and duration, but Chanute was justly proud of the fact
                    that no accident occurred in all this work, save a rip in the seat of his son's trousers.
            Meanwhile Chanute published the results of his experiments in various periodicals, but notably in
                    historic papers contributed to the Journal of the Western Society of Engineers and
                    to the Aeronautical Annual. He was consulted by Wilbur Wright in 1900 and placed
                    all of his researches at Wright's disposal. Moreover he made a trip to 
                        North Carolina
                     to observe the glider flights made there by Wilbur and Orville Wright and generously
                    assisted them in every way. He was the means also of securing two addresses by Wilbur Wright before
                    the Western Society of Engineers, the first in 1901 and the second in 1903.
            Chanute not only had the intense satisfaction of having his own work bear ultimate fruit in the first
                    successful flight of a power-driven plane, made by Orville Wright on December 17,1903, at Kitty
                    Hawk, but he lived on to witness the remarkable progress achieved in the succeeding seven years. He
                    followed this development most keenly and was, perhaps, the outstanding authority in America. Only a
                    year before his death he presented a comprehensive paper on "Recent Progress in
                    Aviation" before the Western Society of Engineers, accompanied by a chronology of aviation
                    from 1903 to 1909 inclusive.4
            
            Many honors came to Chanute in the last years of his life. Lack of time forbids any attempt to
                    enumerate them or even to characterize the many fine tributes paid to him after his death on
                    November 23, 1910. Professional memoirs of his life were published in 1911 in both the Journal of the Western Society of Engineers and the Transactions of the
                        
                  
                     4 It seems to me that the three great pioneers who founded the science
                            and art of aviation in America were Langley, Chanute and Wright. Langley founded the modern
                            science of aerodynamics by investigating the mechanical resistance and supporting power of
                            air, with respect to heavier-than-air vehicles in flight. Chanute first experimented with
                            model gliders, some of which are still preserved in the Museum of Science and Industry.
                            However, he soon abandoned these, in favor of full-size gliders carrying a navigator. His
                            great contribution was the development of the bi-plane. The Wrights then took
                            Chanute's bi-plane, added wing controls, steering mechanism and an adequately
                            powerful motor, which resulted in the first successful flight.
               
                     American Society of Civil Engineers.5 He
                    joined the Western Society in 1869, the year of its organization, was its President in 1901, and was
                    elected an Honorary Member in 1909.
            In conclusion it seems appropriate to say that Octave Chanute belongs to that distinguished company
                    of scientists, inventors and engineers who have created in America the highest civilization known in
                    all history, have given it the highest standard of living on the globe, and made it the best country
                    in the world in which to live and work.6
            
            
               
                  5 "In Memoriam: Octave Chanute" (died Nov. 23, 1910)
                        appeared in the Journal of the Western Society of Engineers (May, 1911), XVI,
                        439–445, and in the Transactions of the American Society of Civil
                            Engineers (Dee. 1911), LXXIV, 483–489. The committee that prepared the
                        memorial was composed of Onward Bates, Robert W. Hunt, Charles F. Loweth and Charles L. Strobel.
               
                  6 It takes but few words to cover in principle the developments which
                        actually extended over a period of about twenty years, and were accomplished only by painfully
                        slow experimentation and research. Chanute believed enthusiastically in the evolution of
                        successful flying machines, but he also prophesied that this would be accomplished, not by one
                        man's work, but by many. He was sincerely happy to have been instrumental in advancing
                        the solution of the problem, and freely gave the results of his work to the public, without
                        desire for commercial profit to himself. It is a source of regret to me that I did not know
                        Chanute, but I know many who did, and a few who witnessed some of his glider experiments. Among
                        the latter are Col. Bion J. Arnold, of 
                            Chicago
                        , past president of the W.S.E. and Mr. William A. Geiger, 8049 Constance Ave., 
                            Chicago
                        , who kindly loaned me his copy of The Aeronautical Annual for
                        1897.
            
         
         
         
            James Woodburn: Hoosier Schoolmaster
            JAMES ALBERT WOODBURN
            
            From 1839 to 1844, my father, James Woodburn, taught in various district schools in the country about 
                        Bloomington
                     when he was not attending college. He was graduated from Indiana University in 1842.
                    From 1844 to 1853, he taught in 
                        Bloomington
                    . In 1853 he accepted the principalship of the Preparatory Department of the University.
                    He was also given the title of "Adjunct Professor of Languages," a title now
                    equivalent to Assistant, or Associate Professor. He continued in this position until his death in
                    1865. Born in 1817 he was only forty-eight when he died.
            In his early years, after 1839, when he played the part of a "Hoosier Schoolmaster"
                    in Southern Indiana, the people among whom he worked were not unlike those made known by Edward
                    Eggleston in his famous stories. My father's teaching, like Eggleston's, was
                    pioneer work amid hard conditions. He had to combat ignorance and prejudice. There were few leaders
                    of light and learning in his community who had the task of stirring people out of their indifference
                    to- wards education, of persuading them that ignorance was an evil, and of showing them that
                    education was worth striving for and paying for. It was up-hill work. When the vote was held on the
                    issue of free schools in Indiana, in 1847, 
                        Monroe
                     county cast a majority of 1071 against the proposal, in a total vote of 1825, or 377
                    for free schools and 1448 against—this despite the fact that people lived
                    "within the shadow of the University." The counties in which the Church colleges
                    were located did no better.
            It is hard for us to realize the primitive condition of the schools and of school sentiment at that
                    time. Many of the teachers were densely ignorant and the schoolhouses were poor. Subscription
                    schools were held in private buildings, sometimes in abandoned log cabins, without school apparatus
                    or furnishings of any kind. Teaching was not a profession. The teacher was a hired man, a day
                    laborer. If he missed a day he missed his pay. On August 5, 1864, James Woodburn related before a
                    teachers' meeting that "the 4th of July was deducted from my pay once in this
                    county. I didn't teach and I didn't make it up and the day's pay was
                    taken out."
            
            Feeling that the Trustee was a little too strict in tracking the law, or in saving the public money,
                    and that the teaching profession had not attained an equal basis with other similar professions, he
                    said: "When our ministers lose a few Sabbaths' preaching they are not required to
                    make it up at the end of the year or to preach a few Saturdays as they go along, or have their
                    salary curtailed. My theory is that all national days on which business is generally suspended
                    should go to the credit of the teacher. The teacher's work is too often measured by that of
                    the manual laborer." He pointed out that when the latter quit work in the evening he was
                    done till the next day. Not so the teacher. "The farm hand sharpens his tools on his
                    employer's time; the teacher must grind his out of school hours while the other is taking
                    his rest or wrapped in slumber. The teacher's dreams are of his day's
                    labors." Evidently there was need of liberalism in the community, and the
                    teacher of that day had to suffer some martyrdom for the cause.
            In a talk before the 
                        Monroe
                     County Teachers Association at Indiana University, on May 3, 1856, James Woodburn spoke
                    further on the hardships of the early teacher and the closeness of the school authorities: 
                        If the teacher dismisses his school for a 4th of July celebration or for a Thanksgiving day,
                            or if a death should occur in the school or among the friends of the teachers or scholars
                            and he should suspend the school a day to attend the funeral care will be taken by the
                            trustees that such days be made up at the close of the term or a proportional reduction be
                            made in his wages. Cases of this kind I have witnessed in this county.
                        These are a few and only a few of the unpleasant things connected with the teacher's
                            profession, but there are, nevertheless, many things of a pleasing nature connected with it.
                            It is a responsible office and the teacher should remember that the minds intrusted to his
                            care do not belong to the perishable things of time. And though he may be a target for many
                            to hurl their missiles of malice at yet he should not swerve to the right or left but go
                            straight forward in the discharge of his duty and pay no attention to the idle reports set
                            afloat by some whose life consists in attending to other people's business, in
                            hatching mischief, and in finding fault with everything that does not conform to their
                            narrow minded and selfish emotions.
                        But many of the old notions in regard to schools are becoming obsolete and there is a greater
                            interest taken at present in our school system and on the subject of education in general
                            and more especially on that of females. Their education used to be comprised in the trio,
                            Reading, Writing and Ciphering, but while we give the ladies of the present age credit for
                            their attainments in literature it is due to our 
                            grandmothers to say in that good, sound, sober, common sense, in decision of character,
                            persevering industry, skillful domestic arrangements, and practical religion, they were at
                            least their equals.
                        I hope that this Association will extend its influence over the different portions of this
                            county and awaken a more lively interest among the masses of the people on the subject of
                            education.
                    
            
            The primitive hardships of the teacher are illustrated by a letter from a Miss Kink who was teaching
                    in 
                        Columbus
                    , Indiana. In 1853 she wrote to James Woodburn (who had been her teacher) of
                    "having two teachers in one room with 80 or 90 pupils, two recitations going on at
                    once." If such were the case in a good town like 
                        Columbus
                    , what shall we suppose to be the situation in remote country districts? These had no
                    schools at all, or, if they had, it was only for two or three months in the year under teachers who
                    were often utterly unfit and incompetent.
            In one of his papers, young Woodburn outlined some of the difficulties which he encountered in his
                    teaching:
            1. Lack of system in the schools.
            
            The schools were without organization, entirely ungraded with all ages of pupils in one room.
            2. Badly constructed schoolhouses.
            
            Poor heating, poor ventilation, hard benches, too little room, no material to work with.
            3. Irregular attendance.
            
            This was a great aggravation. It was impossible to classify his pupils. One must stay from school to
                    go to mill; one to go to the blacksmith to get Dobbin shod; one to go to town for something; one to
                    go hunting or fishing with Dad. If there was anything else they wanted to do, school did not hinder.
                    The absentees dragged along in their classes and then complained that a day or two lost from school
                    every week had hindered them in their progress. In a term of four months, on no two days in
                    succession were the same pupils in attendance.
            4. Diversity of text books.
            
            Each pupil brought what he happened to have. If a pupil had no reader he might bring a Life of George 
                        Washington
                     or of 
                        Israel
                        Putnam
                     or of Francis 
                        Marion
                     or a History of the 
                        United States
                    . In one of James Woodburn's schools there were six different Arithmetics at
                    one time. "One boy had old Gough, an old Irish book distinguished for its
                    long and difficult  questions." He reflected that this
                    "was the first Arithmetic I ever studied myself when I was a schoolboy," yet to go
                    through it with a single pupil and with so many others on hand at the same time he considered an
                    imposition. Yet the trustee permitted it and my father admitted there was something in Gough good to
                    train the mind.
            5. Interference of Trustees or Directors.
            
            These were always wishing to give special direction to the teacher, taking too much interest in the
                    welfare of the school, telling the teacher how this and that should be done. "Those knowing
                    least about the management of schools are always the most officious," was not far from the
                    truth. He added that "Trustees are very useful, but sometimes a bad selection is made. If
                    some of the lights are broken out, or if seats are scarce or uncomfortable, or if there is no lock
                    or key to the door, or to the teacher's desk by which he can keep his books and papers or
                    any private items he may have,—then the Trustee has an opportunity to make himself
                    useful."
            Obviously this county teacher's work was not easy. In 1845, while teaching at $20
                    a month, he wrote: "The school is very full. The daily average number is about 55 scholars,
                    some days over 60. So you may know that I have not much time for taking naps in school. I only teach
                    from half past 8 till half past 4. So you see I have considerable time to attend to other
                    studies." He was thankful for the favors that came to him.
            James Woodburn taught the first free school ever opened in Perry Township where he lived. He was the
                    organizer and promoter of the first Teachers' Association or Institute ever held in 
                        Monroe
                     County, which was in 1843. Some years later (1856), when speaking of these times before
                    a 
                        Monroe
                     County Teachers' Association, he said: 
                        In looking over my papers I found the minutes of a 
                                Monroe
                             County Teachers Association, formed during the year 1843. Being engaged during
                            that summer in the District in the south of town, with considerable effort I persuaded a few
                            teachers to unite as we have done this time. We had a few meetings and one public address,
                            but the Association dwindled down and in a short time completely fizzled out.
                        Again some few years later (1847) a similar Association was formed in the Court House by a
                            considerable number of teachers,—in an enthusiastic meeting, with able speeches
                            on behalf of educational interests of our country and of our county in particular. Officers
                            were elected; a minute book was bought sufficient to hold the minutes of the  next generation; an executive committee was appointed to
                            arrange for a subsequent meeting, but no second meeting was ever held.
                        We are now in for the third trial. I am the only one here today who was a member of the other
                            two Associations. Women are now coming in which is an omen of success. What are our
                            purposes? Mutual improvement; to hear reports on education; to discuss the best means of
                            promoting the cause of learning; to elevate the teaching profession; to stir up the
                            teachers; to awaken a spirit of improvement; to raise the standard of education.
                    These certainly were most worthy and comprehensive purposes.
            He then went on to speak of the school conditions which he had witnessed and against which a few of
                    his kind were struggling. He was at the time of his speaking, the School Examiner of the County, an
                    office which afterwards came to be that of County Superintendent: 
                        We have many miserably deficient teachers. During the past two years I have examined and
                            given certificates to about 75 teachers in this county, and I have had opportunity of
                            knowing something about the state of education in our county and it is distressingly
                            alarming the amount of ignorance that exists in some portions of our own county. We have
                            teachers in our own county that don't know what part of the world we live in,
                            don't know whether we live north or south of the equator, or whether the world
                            turns to the east or the west.
                        "Why," it may be asked, "do you license such teachers?"
                            The reason is this: Some districts are very weak and also ignorant, and can't pay a
                            good teacher, or one who knows the branches required, and will therefore, select some one
                            from among themselves and will petition the examiner to give them a certificate to teach certain branches which are all they require. The law makes provision for
                            such districts and the examiner has to act accordingly.
                        Again we have teachers who in point of morals are not good models for the youth. A person who
                            will use profane language, or low vulgar language, and one who will carry a bottle of whisky
                            to school every day, is not worthy of a place in the teaching profession. Such teachers have
                            been employed in our county. We must make efforts for reform.
                        What can this Association do? Well, if we were as much concerned for the "interest
                            of the dear people" as the politicians are, we could canvas the county and make
                            speeches in every school house on the subject of education. Many people in the county have
                            never heard such a speech, many read nothing on the subject and many cannot read at all.
                            Such a speech, though it might seem stale in 
                                Bloomington
                            , would be listened to with interest in other parts of the county.
                        If every district had the right kind of a teacher who would make his school the centre of
                            attraction, with public examinations and exhibitions occasionally and have a public address
                            either by himself or some one else, to pupils and parents and citizens of the District, you
                            would soon see an improvement. The teacher should strive to improve  himself, not only by acquainting himself with the subject he
                            teaches, but he should read books on the subject of teaching, should take a school journal,
                            and keep himself posted on educational movements. Let us discuss our difficulties and stand
                            together for the cause and appeal to the public for support.
                    
            
            Here was some vision, some faith and devotion to the cause of education. Evidently for his time,
                    James Woodburn had some professional spirit. He believed that teachers should organize for mutual
                    helpfulness, continually strive for self improvement, study the literature of their profession and
                    seek the best methods in teaching as presented by educational leaders. In the cause of educational
                    progress he was associated with Prof. Daniel Reed, Andrew Wylie, D. Eckley Hunter, and Prof.
                    Eliphalet P. Cole. The last named was a teacher in an Academy at 
                  Hopewell, Johnson County
               , later
                    principal of the Young Women's Seminary in 
                        Bloomington
                    , and still later Superintendent of the 
                        Bloomington
                     Schools.
            My father was acquainted with John I. Morrison of 
                        Salem
                    , and the veteran teachers of the Mays family of 
                        Salem
                     and 
                        New Albany
                    . When he went on an eastern journey to 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1852 to attend the General Synod of his Church (Reformed Presbyterian), he was most
                    of all interested in visiting schools and colleges. At 
                        Cincinnati
                     he visited a Public School to observe its workings and the High School, formerly
                    Woodworth College whose Principal was Dr. Joseph Ray, author of the famous Arithmetics. At 
                        Philadelphia
                     he was interested in visiting Girard College. Returning by way of 
                        New York
                     City and 
                        Albany
                    , he spent Tuesday, Wednesday, Thursday and Friday in the latter city where he inspected
                    the work of the State Normal School there. It would seem unlikely that many opportunities went
                    unimproved in his career as a teacher.
            The record on which I have relied at such length bears the date of 1856. That was the date at which
                    the Indiana State Teachers Association was organized. In the same year The Indiana
                        School Journal was established in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . E. P. Cole of 
                        Bloomington
                     was a leader in these movements and they were the result of the educational enterprise
                    and spirit of such progressive teachers as James Woodburn.
            In another paper read before a Teachers Association of 
                        Monroe
                     County on August 14, 1864, Woodburn gave a brief historical account of these early
                    local Teachers Associations,  fully corroborating and in part
                    repeating, the information already recited. He said he had no books or authorities to rely upon
                    except his own experience and his own memory, together with some documents and notes among his old
                    papers. This account, it seems to me, is of such interest as to justify insertion here: 
                        The first record I have of a Teachers Association in this country dates back to the year
                            1843. I had just left college and was engaged in teaching and had read in some School
                            Journal about Teachers Associations and I felt, I suppose, just like all young folks do when
                            they set out; that is, that the world has been standing still just waiting for them to take
                            hold, and that there is going to be a complete revolution in whatever department of business
                            they turn their attention to.
                        Not being able to find the minutes of that Association I cannot give the exact date of its
                            organization or the names of its members, but all the names I remember are, Hubbard
                            Marshall, Matthew Fee, 
                                Randolph
                             Marshall, Samuel Hays, Mr. Anerson and myself, and I think Prof. 
                                Campbell
                            , and that is nearly all the teachers that it contained. Being tolerably
                            officious in getting it organized I was elected President, but how long it continued in
                            existence I cannot state, but I find among my old documents a Report read before that
                            Association April 29, 1843, on the length of time children should be confined in School, and
                            another dated June 24, 1843, on the subject of silent and open schools. The date of its
                            demise I cannot state but I remember I composed the whole audience on the last day
                            [meeting]. I had an interesting time going through the exercises. That was the only minute
                            taken at that meeting. It (the Association), died, however, during the summer, and in the
                            fall I went to 
                                Ohio
                             to teach and taught there during the winter.
                        There was an interegnum then until the year 1847. I was then teaching in 
                                Bloomington
                             and tried to set the ball rolling again. A meeting for organization was held in
                            the Court House by a considerable number of teachers and friends of education. The meeting
                            was very enthusiastic, some able speeches were made on behalf of the educational interests
                            of our country in general and of 
                                Monroe
                             county in particular.
                        The Faculty of the University were enticed into it. Dr. Wylie was President of the University
                            at that time. Dr. Ryors was present and assisted in organizing. A committee was appointed to
                            report a constitution of which the following (which I have in my pocket) is something like a
                            copy [He read it but no copy of it can be found.] It was adopted and signed by a large
                            number of those present. Officers were elected for a year. I was chosen President again. You
                            see I was very popular [They knew he was ready to undertake the burden of the organization].
                            An Executive Committee was appointed to procure speakers, make appointments for meetings,
                            and to attend to all business not otherwise specified in the constitution. Among those who
                            became members at that time I remember the names of Prof. Read, Prof. Wylie,  Prof. 
                                Campbell
                            , Dr. Ryors, Thomas Wilson, Delaney York, Samuel Hays, Harrison,
                            Jones—the others I have forgotten.
                        Well, I can find nothing among my documents to show when or where the second meeting of that
                            Association was held, nor can I remember anything about it; I think, however, the Executive
                            Committee have not yet appointed it. We will (?) no doubt have notice in due time. It died,
                            as the other, in its infancy.
                        The next document I find is an address read before the Teachers Association May 3, 1856, in
                            the Preparatory room of the Old College. This is an address of eight pages, and I have not
                            read it since and don't know now what all it contains, but I think there must have
                            been somebody to hear it. I cannot remember the organization of that Association, but I was
                            about to say that I helped to form it and was elected President, for I find also a kind of
                            an inaugural written with a pencil, but no place or date is mentioned and I don't
                            know where or when it was delivered; but mention is made of its being the 3rd Teachers
                            Associaiton formed in 
                                Monroe
                             County. I think, however, it was organized in the Female Seminary during the
                            administration of Mr. Cole at the close of some of his Institutes. It was kept up for a
                            while with some interest. I remember one or two very good meetings we held in the Methodist
                            Church and that Mr. Cole and some others made some lengthy remarks on subjects connected
                            with the educational interests of our country. But it evaporated as did the others and is
                            now remembered among the things that were.
                        When I got to this point in my History I found among my documents my Report as Treasurer of
                            this Association, dated Feb'y, 1856, [which shows] that I received 50 cents
                            admittance fee from the following gentlemen: Prof. Wylie, Prof. Ballantine, Dr. Daily, D.
                            Eckley Hunter, H. D. Riddile, Jacob B. Wolfe, T. H. Martin, Richard Johnson, Homer A. Lemon,
                            John H. Wilson, Milan Waggarmen, Wm. H. Jones, and some others. C. C. Monical was also a
                            member but his 50 cents was not marked pd. Mr. Hunter perhaps remembers him, or if he
                            don't [sic] some others about 
                                Bloomington
                             do. He was Janitor at that time, and he got up a subscription for the purpose
                            of procuring a gridiron pendulum clock for the University and he got a dollar from each of
                            the Faculty, and from the students and citizens to the amount of $40 or more and
                            went off for the clock but he is not yet returned with it. He will perhaps be here on time
                            when he comes.
                        This Association from my book account lasted a year, for it is stated on my book that I paid
                            over to Mr. Riddile, my successor in office at the end of six months, all the moneys etc.,
                            belonging to said society, and on Feb'y 7, 1857, it states that I was elected
                            treasurer again, which is one year from the first date. But in the meantime Mr. Riddile was
                            gone and there is no account of the assets coming into my hands, and I suppose he either
                            bought a farm out west or is traveling in Europe yet on the proceeds of that
                        association.
                    
            
            Another Teachers' Association is mentioned, but since it had a short life and left no record
                    it is passed by. It was  easier to organize Teachers'
                    Associations than to keep them alive, for he asserted: "So 
                        Monroe
                     County has seen the rise and fall of four Teachers Associations previous to the present
                    and the question naturally arises what is to be the fate of this one?" He predicted a
                    better future for it because of so many women teachers among its membership.
                    "Why," he declared, "female teachers were not wanted in this county when
                    I commenced teaching. A trustee who would have talked about employing a female teacher then would
                    have been recommended as a fit subject for an insane asylum. Our farmers would as soon have thought
                    of employing a tailor to sharpen their plows or a carpenter to shoe their horses as of employing a
                    female to teach their children."
            After making some complimentary remarks about the "ladies," intended to be
                    facetious, he concluded by asking: 
                        What advantage, what benefit do we derive, what good does a Teachers Association do? For one
                            I can only say that it pays me. Besides the improvement resulting from the
                            various exercises, it pays to meet and exchange greetings with our fellow teachers. If we
                            had no other exercises at all, it would pay to meet and spend a few hours in sociability,
                            conversation, and amusement."
                        I believe in cultivating our social faculties, and when an opportunity for improvement is
                            afforded it is our duty to embrace it. Once a month the teachers can afford to convene
                            together, and thus extend their acquaintance to the different parts of the county.
                    
            
            This address before the fifth Teachers Association of 
                        Monroe
                     County, in 1864, was one of many as James Woodburn became an active worker and
                    instructor in the County Teachers' Institutes when these came into use. The last service of
                    his life was given to one of these institutes in 
                  Vincennes, Knox
                County, late in August,
                    1865. He was a guest that week of Hon. William E. Niblack, his old college-mate. He became ill
                    during the week of the Institute, came home on Friday August 24, took to his bed and died just two
                    weeks later.
            His schedule of teaching in these early schools, with all ages and sizes in one room, must have been
                    hard and tiresome. He taught seven hours a day, "took-up" at eight and
                    "let-out" at five, with recesses of fifteen minutes at ten and three and one hour
                    and a half at noon. In the country this noon dismissal was called the "long recess"; the
                    children seldom went home. His conception of his function as a teacher was not only to impart
                    knowledge and train the mind, but "to  form good
                    habits, to modify disposition, to moderate the passions, to relieve bias." He seemed deeply
                    conscious of being responsible for the character of his pupils. "One
                    great defect of our schools," he said, "is the want of moral training. The most
                    important part of an education is correct habits, the education of the conscience." He
                    opened and closed every term of school with a talk in which he sought to impress these things upon
                    the minds of those who had been placed under his care. The "last day of school"
                    was usually made the occasion of an "Exhibition," with declamations and dialogues,
                    or public examinations, in which he sought to show what progress the children were making. At these
                    "Exhibitions" the parents of the children and "friends of
                    education" would be present and he always used the occasion to educate the community for
                    the better support of the schools.
            At the close of his school in 
                        Bloomington
                    , in March, 1847, he especially thanked the girls who had attended. He called them
                    "ladies." "You have had some opposition to contend with," he
                    said, "as I have understood that some of the citizens of the town have objected to ladies
                    coming here and have endeavored to prevent them, while there is a female seminary in the place, but
                    I always allow people to go to school where they please. Some object to having boys and girls at the
                    same school, but I prefer a school composed of both sexes, as I have had schools of both kinds, and
                    I find that when ladies are present it tends to promote order and manners among the boys, and vice versa." He rejoiced in "an age of research and discovery
                    when prejudice and ignorance were being dispelled." "Ignorance, superstition,
                    bigotry,—what persecution came to those who sought to dispel these! Think of the age of 
                        Columbus
                     and how ignorance impeded his progress using citations from the Bible and from works of
                    the early fathers. Think of Galileo's announcement and retraction. What hoots and sneers
                    there were uttered about the earth's sphericity and the antipodes. The object of the
                    education that we seek is to enable us to distinguish truth from falsehood."
            At the opening of his school on June 17, 1847, he set forth to his pupils his plan of work, appealing
                    for cooperation and urging study and good behavior. At the opening of another session in October,
                    1848, he explained the rules and regulations of his school and what he expected in "the
                    conduct and behavior of the scholars:"
            
            
                    You are all coming here to learn, not to learn to be idle, not to learn mischief, nor to learn
                        wickedness, or anything injurious to you, but to learn that which is of great
                        importance:—to prepare yourselves for acting a useful part in the world; to form such
                        habits and principles as will entitle you to the esteem and approbation of your fellow
                        creatures. If, then, this is your design it becomes you seriously to consider how it is to be
                        accomplished.
                    1. "First, remember that order is one of nature's first laws.
                        Without order no school or association of any kind can prosper. Each scholar has influence in
                        promoting the order of the school. Talking, whispering, laughing, changing seats, or making a
                        noise of any kind, are all out of order and interruptions in school and should be avoided by
                        every scholar.
                    2. Punctuality. Let each scholar make it his duty to be at school always in
                        time. There are few things of greater importance to us than punctuality…. You should
                        not suffer yourself to fall into a habit which will act as a barrier to your success hereafter.
                    3. Regularity. Missing recitations will retard your progress. If you are
                        irregular you will become careless and a drag upon the class and will impede the progress of
                        others. Miss as little as possible. Let not every trivial circumstance keep you away. Let no
                        sprees, parties, speeches, or amusements of any kind interfere with your duties at school.
                    4. Preparation for your lessons. Always have your lessons prepared again
                        recitation time [Again for against was frequently used in
                        those days]. Form not the idle and degrading habit of coming to recite without having looked at
                        your lesson.
                    5. Cultivate peace and friendship among your schoolmates.
                        Avoid everything that may tend to engender quarrels or contentions. Fall not out with one
                        another, but follow the golden rule.
                    6. Moral conduct and proper language. One thing that must be avoided by you all
                        is cursing and swearing or using profane language. This is not a school of religion intended to
                        promote the opinions of any particular denomination, but it is a school of morality, as every
                        school ought to be, and no such wicked and immoral practices as this will be tolerated here. No
                        parent wishes his child subjected to low, vulgar, profane and immoral speech.
                
            Such were the ideals which he held before the children of his school. He enjoined diligence and
                    perseverance, and that they should struggle against discouragement. If a study seemed hard then they
                    should study the harder. Each pupil should strive to control his mind, to keep it from wandering, to
                    direct it without interruption to the object of his study. So much for the manner of study as a
                    means of learning to think, which is the end and aim of mental training.
                    "One great object in pursuing a course of study is to acquire the  habit of thinking, and of keeping the mind upon the subject before you.
                    If you wish to improve in your studies you must keep your mind upon the subject as well as your
                    eyes. You must think as well as look."
            James Woodburn made an address before a Teachers' Association in District No. 8, Perry
                    Township, 
                        Monroe
                     County, Indiana, on Friday afternoon, November 18, 1864. This was less than a year
                    before his death. His homilies and exhortations were probably much needed in his day. He urged
                    impartiality, though all pupils were not equally attractive and lovable, some having "the
                    quintessence of meanness mixed up in them so that they can think of nothing else but how to give you
                    trouble." Some paragraphs from the address follow: 
                        To the teachers of this Association I would say: Press on! Continue to advance!
                            Don't quit studying because you have commenced to teach. Study on. Learn something
                            new. Be your own teacher as well as that of your scholars. Teach one another. This
                            Association is the place for that. I learn something every time I attend.
                        Learn how to teach. Learn how to govern your school, and learn first how to govern
                            yourselves. It is more important to know how to do that than to know how to govern a
                            school…. Dn't try to put yourself forward by pulling others back, but
                            help one another as much as you can. Avoid passion and anger in the school room.
                            Don't slash around among the children and scare them out of their
                            senses,—like an old teacher I went to once. He would walk around in front of the
                            class, and if things didn't go off to please him he would grab the little fellows
                            by the hair and shake out everything they had in their heads. Remember there are a great
                            many eyes upon you watching everything you do, a great many ears open listening to
                            everything you say. How important, therefore, is it that in word and in deed you should be a
                            model for all your scholars, for all others that come under your influence, to pattern
                            after. Eemember, too, that it is about as easy, and much more desirable, to have friends
                            than enemies, and school teachers all have enough to do, enough to talk about, enough to
                            think about, without mixing up with the tattle, slander and recrimination that occupy the
                            time and attention of so many, and produce so much enmity and hard feelings in many of our
                            neighborhoods. Be above it, but do not hold your heads too high. We must all stoop to
                            conquer occasionally. An old man said in giving advice, that he had missed many a hard thump
                            on the head by stooping now and then as he passed through the world.
                        The labors of a schoolteacher are great and his duties are responsible. Reflect, therefore,
                            upon the important calling in which you have embarked. The educational interests of the
                            county are committed to your charge. Many of you are young. The voyage of life is  before you. Anticipations of the future now occupy your
                            thoughts, but ere long you will delight to dwell on the reminiscences of the past.
                        Before I close permit me to allude to my relationship with this District in days gone by. It
                            is endeared to me by many ties. In it was my first home in Indiana; in it I spent my
                            youthful days. In it I taught my first school just 25 years ago, and my last District school
                            was taught in it 20 years ago. Some that are here, perhaps, can go back with me to those
                            days, the events of which are yet fresh to my mind.
                    
            
            At the first 
                        Monroe
                     County Teachers' Association in 1843 of which his recollections have been
                    given, James Woodburn gave an address from which I transcribe the following portions: 
                        I consider it a pleasure to contribute my mite in advancing the great cause of moral and
                            intellectual improvement. If I can say anything which will be beneficial to those who hear
                            me and which will call forth some of their exertions in the same cause and excite a spirit
                            of enterprise among them, I shall consider that I am bountifully re-rewarded for my trouble.
                        I have selected for my subject, "Education, connected with Our Present Mode of
                            Conducting Common Schools".
                        In this enlightened age it would appear almost needless to show the advantages of education
                            and the necessity for its progress. There is no one here who is not aware of the advantages
                            the educated have over those who are not; and also the great difference there is between
                            enlightened and christian nations and those that are in a state of ignorance and
                        barbarism.
                    
            
            He then compared modern times with the ancient, and the state of our own country when it was under
                    the control of savages with its situation after "the seeds of education, industry, and
                    civilization were scattered over it,—seeds which have made us an enlightened and
                    christian nation."
            He referred to the age when "ignorance, superstition, bigotry, and prejudice reigned over
                    the minds of men and caused them to propagate the most absurd and injurious opinions.
                    "Those who contradicted their opinions or attempted to controvert them met with the most
                    cruel persecutions."
            He then spoke of the high office of the teacher, "the noblest on earth".
                    "Great are his responsibilities, with the destiny of the mind given over to his
                    charge." The clergyman must have comprehending minds in the pews before his message can
                    have effect. "For what can a minister in the pulpit do if those whom he addresses have not
                    been taught to understand the nature of what he preaches?"
            
            I quote at length from the remainder of this address, believing that it will serve to show something
                    of his devotion to his work, his services as a teacher, and his part in helping to educate public
                    opinion for better schools: 
                        There is a great deal more to be learned in school than the mere mechanical round of book
                            lessons. There the mind is to be developed; the habits formed; the dispositions modified;
                            the passions moderated and the bias given which will guide the scholars through life.
                        Since, then, there is so much importance attached to the office how well ought they to be
                            prepared who enter upon it! They who take upon themselves such imposing obligations should
                            consider that they are responsible for the character they form and that the memory of the
                            school is the record of their conduct, and that the influence they exert upon those under
                            their care is recognized by the vision of an unseen eye and written in the register of all
                            human actions.
                        Before a person can teach well he must be well taught himself. His own mind should first be
                            well disciplined and well stored with materials of instruction. Mind like matter moves in
                            the direction of its impelling force, and if the first impulse be given to it at a wrong
                            point, unless its momentum be resisted and overcame by some opposing power it will move
                            onward in the path of error.
                        These are some of the responsibilities resting upon the schoolmaster, and some of the
                            qualifications which he ought to possess. But are these the kind we find employed? Let our
                            schools return an answer. It is to be lamented that many of them are filled with smatterers
                            in learning who have much more need to be taught than to attempt to teach. What is the cause
                            of this? It is because people too often measure the education of their children in dollars
                            and cents. This, together with the common notion that any capacity is competent to perform
                            the office of the teacher, may be given as a reason for the introduction of so many
                            worthless and incompetent teachers into our schools; and it speaks badly for the wisdom and
                            intelligence of our enlightened community.
                        When a teacher is proposed what is the first question asked about him? It is not,
                            ‘What can he teach?’ or, ‘Is he well qualified for the
                            office of teacher?’ No, these questions are scarcely ever thought of by many. But
                            the question is, ‘For what will he teach?’ ‘How much money
                            must we give him?’ ‘O,’ it is answered, ‘he will
                            teach for $8.00 or $10.00 a month and board himself. He can
                            ‘read and write and cypher to the rule of three, and that is all we care about,
                            so he will exactly suit us.’ And the consequence is that those who are qualified,
                            and who cannot afford to teach without a sufficient recompense are thrown out of employment;
                            and, strange as it may seem, these people, in order to be economical, employ a person who is
                            totally inadequate to be in charge of children, and through this ruinous economy and this
                            ignorance of the teacher's vocation they rob their children of that for which no
                            recompense can compensate. They are not aware how much 
                            depends upon having the first elements taught correctly, and of the great importance of
                            having correct principles and moral sentiments instilled into their children at an early
                            age, and how a misguidance and misimprovement at this age will be a perpetual embarrassment
                            to them through life. This all results from the ignorance of the employers. If their
                            children can be taught to read and write a little, they think that is all that is necessary.
                            And if they were taught to read itself, it would not be so bad, but they are often taught
                            only to name over the words without paying any regard either to a correct articulation,
                            pronunciation, accent, emphasis, modulation or inflections of the voice, in fine to anything
                            on which the art of reading depends. To read in a graceful and impressive manner is what
                            every parent ought to consider among the first of polite accomplishments, and unless the
                            teacher understands the art of reading it cannot be expected that he will make correct
                            readers.
                        The occupation of a teacher is too often compared with that of a common laborer. A laborer
                            can be employed for from $6.00 to $10.00 a month and why should not a
                            man teach school for as little, since teaching school is not as hard work as mauling rails,
                            grubbing, plowing, etc. I once heard a farmer say while talking about the price of teaching,
                            that if he were making $10.00 a month he would think he was doing good business,
                            and to give a teacher $20 or $25 a month was entirely too exorbitant.
                        Such arguments as these are too futile for refutation and but too plainly display the
                            ignorance of their authors. They overlook the vast amount of time and expense which it
                            requires to qualify a person to teach and the responsibility of his office.
                    
            
            James Woodburn spoke for parent-teacher cooperation, for the necessity of discipline, and for
                    cultivating respect for the teacher in the minds of pupils. Often patrons of the schools express
                    before children opposition to their teachers, or listen to children's erroneous reports of
                    the teacher's conduct. At the instigation of these reports, parents often commit the most
                    flagrant acts of injustice and attack the most worthy, benevolent and generous instructors: 
                        Obloquy and reproach are all the thanks the teacher receives. We regret that this is the
                            case, but that it is so no one will deny.
                        It would be better if they kept their children at home, or not to let them know that they
                            have any objection to the teacher. For, by so doing, instead of being trained up in the way
                            they should go the children are taught to practice deceit and falsehood, and to be
                            ungrateful to their preceptors, and to imbibe evil principles which years will not
                            eradicate.
                        Bad management of children at home always increases the troubles and difficulties of the
                            teacher.
                        
                        In the discipline of children obedience is the first thing they must learn, and unless they
                            are obedient to parents it is vain to suppose that they will be to teachers.
                        If any of my remarks are thought to be too severe I have to reply that I am sorry that truth
                            requires such, and I would be glad to see the time when such would be false. I only wish to
                            induce frequent and anxious reflections on the subject of education, that we may discover
                            the evil and know where to apply the remedy. To cultivate a spirit of enterprise on this
                            subject in ourselves and promote it in others is an obligation laid upon us
                            all,—year, it is imposed upon us by the most solemn of all obligations, the
                            christian religion. Let all parents consider the great obligations they are under and how
                            powerful and lasting are the effects of early impressions. Let them not be so blinded by
                            animosity, strife, envy and contention that they will sacrifice to these the interest and
                            happiness of their children. Let them reflect that they must ere long pass off the stage of
                            life, and how painful it would be to them to think that by a mismanagement of the early
                            education of their children they should bring down their gray hairs in sorrow to the
                        grave.
                    
            
            Many of these teachings were but standard ideas which his fellow teachers usually held in common with
                    him, but there was very great need for constantly inculcating them by line upon line and precept
                    upon precept, and James Wood-burn performed a good service in using every public occasion to urge
                    the needs and true standards of the schools upon the attention of the teachers and the public. He
                    was in advance of his day on many questions then in controversy but now long since settled. He was
                    not afraid to take an advanced, and therefore an unpopular, side of an educational issue. He favored
                    giving more attention to the education of women. He ridiculed the idea that women had no capacity
                    for the higher education or no power of sustained mental progress—he thought they could
                    do as well as men. He sought to use public occasions for the education of public opinion and to help
                    on in social reform. He was depressed by the evils of the day and he was at times in doubt as to the
                    future of his country—just as we are prone to be today.
            One of this young teacher's early utterances is interesting in view of our modern complaints
                    and fears as to crimes and social decay, and it illustrates the old saying that "there is
                    nothing new under the sun". He said at a school meeting, February 19, 1842: 
                        Again take a view of the outrages that are daily committed throughout our country. Who is it
                            that will not be shocked when he  picks up the newspaper
                            of the day and glances over the accounts of murders, assassinations, and now and then an
                            account of a mob. There is too much party strife and rancour. The subject of slavery affords
                            a theme of warm controversy at present, and it may yet terminate in bloody scenes or a
                            division of the Union. Such things justify the opinion that we are going to destruction. It
                            is the duty of all to correct these errors, to eradicate the feelings which they engender
                            that the several members of our Union may be knit together by the former ties of friendship.
                            True voices are drowned by the acclamations of the aspiring demagogues who infest our
                            country.
                    So it is that history repeats itself. The voices of the past are the voices of today and the
                    more we change the more we are the same.
         
         
         
            Judge Horace P. Biddle
            SARAH S. PRATT
            
            For many years a cultured citizen of 
                        Logansport
                    , Judge Horace P. Biddle was a friend of my father's family, and I knew him
                    very well from my childhood to his death.
            As is well known, the Judge bought an island in the 
                        Wabash
                     River at 
                        Logansport
                     and establish thereon a very pretty and unique home. It was a roomy, rambling dwelling
                    which year by year housed his ever-growing library and collection of art treasures. He might be
                    called an early patron of the arts in Indiana for he was an enthusiast about all that was fine.
            Often a group of us would be asked over to the Island Home, as it was called, to view some portfolios
                    of pictures or a new set of books. Once we were shown a pair of handsome statuettes in colored
                    bronze given to the Judge by Mrs. Jennie Musselman Magee. These were Don Quixote and Mephistophles.
                    They are now in the library of the late Rufus Magee in 
                        Logansport
                    .
            At another time Judge Biddle showed us a musical instrument that he had invented. It was called a
                    tetrachord and was akin to the violin family. I do not think that this instrument was ever fully
                    developed. The Judge loved music and studied its scientific nature. He had a niece, Eva Peters, who
                    was one of the finest pianists in Indiana. On such visits, the guests would sit on the porch or
                    stroll about the rooms, while the host talked entertainingly. In this abode of the gods there was
                    never anything so common as eating or drinking. There was, indeed, no touch of domesticity about
                    that home. There had been a beautiful Mrs. Biddle, but she was never seen in the Island Home.
                    "Divorce," a rare and mysterious word then, was whispered among our elders.
            I recall a very pretty scene on the lawn, when the Judge proffered it for a certain charitable
                    purpose. Over the wide space, were scattered small pavillions, some with Gypsy fortune tellers,
                    while a band of troubadors wandered around singing songs, such as "Juanita" and
                    "When you and I were Young Maggie." The coins gathered up by little Molly Dolan in
                    her tambourine went to yellow-fever sufferers in the South.
            
            Progress is no respecter of privacy and the Judge's domain was early invaded by the 
                        Wabash
                     Railway. Bridges joined the island to the mainland and the chief highway leading
                    southward from the city runs past the Island Home.
            Admirers of Judge Biddle, in newspaper articles recently published, have classed him as a poet, one
                    of them ranking him above Riley, another placing him on a higher pedestal than Shelley. The
                    published poems of the Judge formed a neglected volume in our bookcase, from my early recollections.
                    In vain did I search through his book for some poem to recite on Friday, in that time, frequently
                    speech-day at school. The Judge was so saturated with the classics that his verse was always based
                    on love, or hair, or eyes, or grief, or "memoree," now the much-loved theme of
                    radio tenors. No Hoosier schoolboy would have recited one of Biddle's poems. They lacked
                    virility, but his prose was superior. However, he was the first in Indiana to publish a book of
                    verse, even ante-dating our Sarah Bolton of 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Judge Biddle left his large accumulation of books to the Public Library of 
                        Logansport
                    . He was truly a benefactor and a patron of culture. His admirers are correct in
                    asserting that the memory of such a man should be preserved.
         
         
         
            A Search After Truth
            GEORGE W. JULIAN
            
            [This frank revelation of the development of his religious views from his youth through the years of
                    his long and active career, was written by the Hon. George W. Julian, at Santa Fe, 
                        New Mexico
                     near the end of 1887. It was published in the January, 1888, issue of the Unitarian Review (XXIX, pp. 48–57). It is here reprinted because of its
                    sincerity, interest and value. It gives a rare insight into a more or less hidden phase of the life
                    of an able and aggressive public man.]
            The personal experience of every thinking man and woman in wrestling with theological doubts and
                    difficulties must always possess a certain human interest; and this interest, for obvious reasons,
                    is rapidly extending. Through the amazing advance of knowledge and free thought within the past
                    forty years, non-conformity in religion has been made easy. The number of those who are turning away
                    from tradition and custom and casting about them for opinions of their own is manifestly on the
                    increase; and they may possibly find entertainment, if not instruction, in the story of earlier
                    seekers after the truth, who labored under far less favored conditions. It is in the light of these
                    considerations that I have prepared the following brief chapter of facts in real life, written with
                    the most unreserved frankness and fidelity of detail.
            In the somewhat rude pioneer community1 in which I was born and spent my early
                    life, religion appeared to be the chief and all-absorbing concern. The people generally were very
                    poor, lived in log cabins and were exposed to great trials and hardships; and to the eye of worldly
                    prudence it would have seemed that their prime mission was an early escape from the thraldom of
                    poverty and privation through some vigorous and judicious efforts steadily directed to that end. But
                    they regarded the salvation of their souls in the world to come as the paramount consideration.
                    Religion was not so much a struggle for heaven as a scuffle to escape hell. The dominant form of
                    faith was Methodism. It was not, however, the comparatively educated and conservative Methodism of
                    to-day, but the primitive, volcanic sort, which found fit expression 
                  
                     1 Centreville, Indiana.
               
                     in old-fashioned revivals, camp-meetings and a remorseless
                    administration of the terrors of the law. A few of the preachers of that day still survive, but the
                    last representative man among them whom I knew personally died recently in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The most formidable character among them was "Father Havens," a man
                    of decided force and great physical as well as moral courage. He was a very downright and rather
                    quaint sort of person, and sometimes indulged in a graphic bluntness of speech, which was generally
                    remembered and quoted. An example of this was his saying that the town of 
                        Greenfield
                     was "the worst place between hell and the 
                        Wabash
                    ."
            Methodism, however, was somewhat checkmated by a considerable 
                        Quaker
                     element, with which I was identified; and the situation was still further modified, and
                    sometimes made rather pcturesque, through an occasional irruption into the neighborhood of an old
                    Universalist preacher, then well known in Eastern Indiana, and soundly hated by all orthodox people.
                    His name was Jonathan Kidwell. He was a man almost wholly without education, but possessed [of] a
                    broad and vigorous grasp of mind, a natural lover of controversy, and a perfect master of invective.
                    He was several years the editor of a religious periodical published in Union County in that state;
                    and he anticipated, by more than a quarter of a century, the views of the radical Unitarians and
                    Free Religionists of today. There was also among us a guerilla force of Free Thinkers, who were
                    pretty active in their profane operations, and made the general state of affairs still more
                    miscellaneous.
            It was through the agency of this latter class that some "infidel" books fell in my
                    way at the age of about fifteen; and an eccentric old farmer in the neighborhood, named Louis
                    Hosier, a man of integrity and strong common sense, used frequently to ask me to read to him from
                    some of these books, which he owned. This was the beginning of my experience in this direction,
                    which I prolonged for several years, reading Paine's theological works, Volney's
                        Ruins, Frances Wright's Lectures, Hume's Essays,
                    Rousseau's Treatise on Education, etc. I was quite captivated by these
                    books; and there was a tone of audacity about some of them which charmed me, while it chimed in with
                    my decided dislike of Orthodoxy, as taught and illustrated around me.
            As I approached my manhood, however, my interest in the purely destructive and negative arguments of
                    my favorite  authors considerably declined. They were splendid
                    in their way; but, as I came to take a more serious view of life, they failed to meet the natural
                    craving of the heart for some sort of spiritual light and consolation. They landed me nowhere, and I
                    gradually became more and more dissatisfied in mind. I used to have many conversations with my
                    venerated friend, Samuel I. Hoshour, on religious subjects. He was a leading preacher in the
                    Christian or Campbellite church; and his perfect sincerity and real friendship for me would have
                    pointed the way out of my doubt and denials, if any such way had then been possible. At his
                    instance, I read books on the other side, several of which he kindly furnished me, such as Watson's Apology for the Bible, Simpson's Plea for
                        Religion, Nelson on Infidelity, Leslie's Short
                        Method with the Deists, Faber on Infidelity, and 
                        Butler
                    's Analogy. Theological questions continued to interest me
                    for years following, and finally received an entirely new treatment through a circumstance which was
                    purely accidental.
            Forty-four years ago [1843] I stepped into the law office of a friend in Centreville; and, finding a
                    volume of Dr. Channing's2 Works on his table, I happened to open it at
                    the beginning of his famous sermon delivered at the ordination of Jared Sparks, at 
                        Baltimore
                    , in 1819, on the distinguishing opinions of Unitarian Christians. I found my eyes
                    strangely fastened on the pages as I proceeded, and read it to the end with the most absorbing
                    interest. It was a new revelation, and at once breathed into me a new life. I had no faith in the
                    leading dogmas of orthodox Christianity, as I then understood them, while my skeptical reading had
                    become dreary and unsatisfying; but here was a form of faith which appealed to my reason, while it
                    held fast to all that is spiritually beautiful and inspiring in the teachings of the New Testament.
                    It treated the doctrines of the Trinity, Total Depravity, Vicarious Atonement, Election and
                    Reprobation, and the Plenary Inspiration of the Bible, which the Deistical writers of the last
                    century combated so vigorously, as, in fact, revolting corruptions and deformities of the pure and
                    simple gospel proclaimed by Christ and his apostles. I was inexpressibly delighted. I felt like one
                    coming out of a fearful darkness into the full light of day. I borrowed the six volumes of Dr.
                    Channing, and read them 
                  
                     2 William Ellery Channing (1780–1842). Most noted of the
                            early Unitarian clergymen.
               
                     through with rapt attention; and the power of his ennobling
                    thoughts and beautiful spirit which I then experienced has in some measure attended me ever since. I
                    subscribed for the Christian Inquirer, the Christian Register,
                    and the Christian Examiner, then the three leading organs of American
                    Unitarianism, and received from 
                        Boston
                     a large supply of tracts for missionary use. I corresponded with Mr. Perkins, then
                    pastor of the Unitarian society in 
                        Cincinnati
                    , who sent me a further supply. I read the New Testament through repeatedly in the light
                    of my new views, and found a beauty and fascination in its words which I had never realized before.
                    For a time it seemed to me I had mistaken my calling, and that I ought to become a missionary of my
                    new faith; but this feeling was not enduring, and gradually gave place to more secular and
                    imperative demands.
            The influence of Dr. Channing over my political opinions was not less remarkable. By touching my
                    moral sensibilities at this vernal season of my life, he prepared me for the service in which I
                    afterwards engaged in with so much zeal. His anti-slavery tracts and addresses set me to thinking,
                    and roused within me a spirit and purpose kindred to his own. Hostility to slavery was henceforward
                    to be the controlling principle of my politics, and some of his sentences at once took strong hold
                    upon my memory. "The grand doctrine that every human being should have the means of
                    self-culture, of progress in knowledge and virtue, of health, comfort, and happiness, of exercising
                    the powers and affections of a man,—this is slowly taking its place as the highest social
                    truth." These words have been my constant companions. They have been a ceaseless
                    trumpet-call to battle against oppression and inequality, whether taking the undisguised form of
                    chattel-slavery, or that organized cupidity which makes labor the helpless drudge of capital, or
                    that system of agricultural serfdom which rests upon the unrestricted monopoly of the soil.
            As time wore on, my interest in theological questions steadily increased. I regretted this, because I
                    felt that it was incompatible with my position as a practical man of the world, who had a living to
                    make by my profession; but my espousal of Unitarianism had given a new direction and impulse to my
                    thoughts, and awakened inquiries which seemed to demand an answer. As already stated, I had embraced
                    the new faith  as a glad surprise and a precious consolation.
                    Its blended rationalism and piety captivated my understanding and heart. The thunderbolts it forged
                    against Calvinism delighted me. Its method of escape from the old dogmas of tradition and
                    superstition was charming. But I was then a conservative Unitarian, believing that, while the Bible
                    is not a revelation, in the orthodox sense, it is the record of a revelation, and
                    that, although errors and corruptions have crept into it, imposing upon men the duty of
                    discriminating between the spurious and the genuine, yet that its divine authority is to be accepted
                    as our rule of faith and practice. Thus defined, Unitarianism provided a curiosity which it did not
                    satisfy, and suggested questions to which I could find no sufficient answer. Upon what principle was
                    I to distinguish the pure gold of gospel truth from the dross of superstition and error? If the
                    Scriptures, or any discoverable portion of them, must be accepted as inspired, what is the nature
                    and degree of that inspiration? and wherein does it differ from the inspiration of highly gifted men
                    in their best moods, who have claimed no special divine guidance in their utterances? What was I to
                    make of the prophecies? Some of these, as I found, were written after the events which they
                    pretended to fortell; but did any of the Jewish prophets possess any miraculous
                    power to read the future? If not what was their power? The miracles perplexed me.
                    I pondered Carlyle's question: "On what ground shall one that can make iron swim
                    come and declare that therefore he can teach religion?" As a believer in the
                    unchangeableness of natural laws, how could I believe in the miracles? And if I
                    rejected the story of the raising of Lazarus, and other accounts of the supernatural, how could I
                    accept the divine authority of the record thus shown to be untrustworthy? The Christian
                        Examiner, an able scholarly periodical, dealt with these questions, but in such a way as to
                    excite doubt rather than satisfy inquiry. I was hungry for light; and, when Lucretia Mott paid me a
                    visit in the year 1847, I frankly told her of my theological troubles, and asked her to aid me by
                    any suggestions she might be able to offer. I was charmed by her sweet 
                        Quaker
                     face, the tender and winning tones of her voice, and the perfect rest she seemed to
                    find in her reliance upon the "Inner Light," in dealing with theological
                    difficulties. But my desire for some logical solution of my troublesome questions was not satisfied,
                    and I so wrote her not long after her return home,  Her friendly
                    interest in me and her evident sympathy with my earnest craving for the truth led her to confer with
                    her friends, Dr. Furness, of 
                        Philadelphia
                    , and Rev. W. H. Channing, as to my state of mind.3
            
            In a long and most interesting letter, she reported their suggestions, recommending that I read
                    Palfrey's Lectures on the Old Testament, Mr. Norton's works on
                    the Prophecies and on the Genuineness and Authority of the Gospels, De Wette's Introduction
                    to the Old Testament, translated by Theodore Parker, etc. In the paper enclosed from Dr. Furness, he
                    says: "If your friend would read the prophecies in a 
                        Quaker
                     spirit and philosophy, he would catch a glimpse of their true character. He would see
                    that those men were the fiery reformers of their day, men who regarded every clear intuition of
                    their consciences as a direct word from the Lord," and "that their inspiration was
                    the same in kind with the inspiration of all truth and goodness and wisdom." Mrs. Mott sent
                    me a bundle of pamphlets, including Theodore Parker's famous sermon on "The
                    Transient and Permanent in Christianity," which she particularly commended, as she also did
                    the Life of Joseph Blanco White; and she repeated her own views, which I quote:— 
                        Now that skepticism of the theology of the schools has become somewhat a duty, Free Thinkers
                            may go to the other extreme, and fail to award to the Scriptures all the beautiful and
                            blessed instruction they contain. I have for years accustomed myself to read and examine
                            them as nearly as I would any other book, as early education and veneration would permit. I
                            have now no difficulty in deciding upon the human and ignorant origin of such facts as
                            conflict with the known and eternal laws of Deity in the physical creation, be the claim to
                            the miraculous ever so strong. Still less, if possible, do I waver, when any violtaion of
                            the Divine and Eternal law of right, such as murder in any of its forms, slavery in any of
                            its degrees, and priestcraft in its various shapes, as palmed upon the religious world, is
                            declared to be "Thus saith the Lord."
                    
            
            I was thus pretty well supplied with able counsel, and pointed to some of the best attainable sources
                    of knowledge at that time. But I felt disappointed. I had not found what I wanted. I could
                    understand Mrs. Mott's rejection of "the human and ignorant origin" of
                    portions of the Scriptures, but this did not explain to me how I could certainly determine the 
                  
                     3 William Henry Furness (1802–1896). Unitarian pastor in 
                                Philadelphia
                            . William Henry Channing (1810–1884). Nephew of William Ellery
                            Channing. Unitarian preaiher in 
                                Boston
                             and 
                                Rochester
                            . After 1854, he lived most of the time in 
                                England
                            , serving as Unitarian pastor in Liverpool for a period. He was an ardent
                            abolitionist.
               
                     superhuman and divine origin of other portions. It became
                    painfully evident that I could find no immediate deliverance from my anxious doubts and
                    questionings. If I entered upon the study of the voluminous works recommended, which I determined to
                    do, I should have little time for anything else, and might, after all, fail in my purpose. I was not
                    a theologian by profession, and had my own work to do, of a very different sort; while it was not a
                    matter of life and death that I should exactly or thoroughly understand the debatable problems I was
                    pondering.
            I therefore accepted the necessity of the case as well as I could, still holding on to my
                    conservative Unitarianism as the best thing I could do, but as a sort of provisional faith, the real
                    foundations of which I hoped in some way to ascertain at some future time. I went about my daily
                    business, but with an unappeased interest in theological problems; and it was more than a dozen
                    years later before I found myself logically compelled, as a finality, to surrender every form and
                    quality of supernaturalism, and to take my stand with the radical wing of the Unitarian body, and
                    such independent thinkers as agreed with it, in demanding absolute freedom of thought. I had been
                    most anxious to reach a different conclusion. I had earnestly sought the blessing of mental repose
                    in a divinely authenticated faith, but I could not purchase that blessing at the cost of my
                    understanding. I became convinced of the natural origin of Christianity, because I found it
                    impossible to believe in the supernatural. I reached this final theological landing after much
                    mental anxiety, a good deal of reading, and by a train of thought which yielded me no intellectual
                    peace till I allowed it to have its way. My reason compelled me to agree with Mrs. Child,4 that "the idea that Christianity is a special revelation, made up all
                    at once, and entirely by itself, is as irrational as to suppose that the world was made in six days.
                    Christianity was a growth. The past flowed into the present, and left much of its
                    deposit; and even so will the present pass into the future. There is a perpetual process of
                    evolution in things of the mind, as well as in the forms of matter." My
                    Unitarian experience during the years I was struggling to be satisfied with my semi-orthodox faith
                    in some respects strikingly resembled that of Harriet Martineau, as detailed 
                  
                     4 Lydia Maria (Francis) Child (1802–1842). Noted
                            antislavery writer and reformer of 
                                Boston
                            .
               
                     in her charming Autobiography; but I did not follow her into
                    Positivism, and the disbelief in a future life. I did not abjure religion altogether, because one of
                    its accepted foundations gave way; while, in bravely facing the great duties and trials of life, I
                    gradually found strength and tranquillity of mind. During the long years of the anti-slavery
                    conflict, I found that, just in proportion as I gave my heart unselfishly to the work, the doctrinal
                    doubts and anxieties that had so troubled me faded away, and seemed unworthy of a man who loved his
                    neighbor and believed in the brotherhood of his race. My whole moral nature was lifted up by sincere
                    consecration to my grand task; and I realized at last that "with the heart man believeth
                    unto righteousness," that "the tree of knowledge is not that of life,"
                    and that the only safe "plan of salvation" is that of personal duty and endeavor.
            Such, very briefly told, is the story of my search after truth. If I have not found just what I
                    sought, I have sincerely endeavored to preserve the love of truth, without which even truth itself
                    degenerates into a sham and a lie. Should the final result of my search seem empty, because wanting
                    in the spiritual rest and solace which the heart longs for through a faith supernaturally attested,
                    I answer that the question for every sincere inquirer to consider is, not what is solacing, but what
                    is true, and that whoever subordinates his love of truth to anything else in the universe is
                    disloyal to the Author of truth, and out of accord with the creation of which he forms a part. I
                    believe, with a famous writer of our Revolutionary era, that "it is necessary to the
                    hapiness of man that he be mentally faithful to himself," and that the most deplorable form
                    of infidelity that now scourges society is unfaithfulness to honest convictions.
            As regards my early devotion to Unitarianism as a sect, a wider acquaintance with books, and forty
                    odd years of active life and practical contact with men of all opinions, have somewhat modified my
                    views and tempered my zeal; but, as a powerful and heroic protest against false dogmas, and a great
                    stride towards the inevitable goal of Free Thought, I honor it, and thank it, more than words can
                    express. Nor am I left without religious faith and hope. For reasons which satisfy my understanding
                    without any support from supernaturalism, I am a Theist. I believe in personal immortality on the
                    strength  of the human affections, and because I cannot believe
                    that the unappeasable hunger of the soul for so priceless a blessing was implanted to be ungratified
                    and mocked. I believe in the simple humanity of Jesus, and the renovating and ever-unfolding power
                    of his life and teachings in lifting humanity to higher and yet higher conditions. While I accept
                    these ideas as rational and satisfying, I am not a scoffer at any form of faith, because I believe
                    all forms are the product of causes from which they have inevitably been evolved, and that this
                    continuing process of evolution will at last give the world a perfect religion, as the outcome and
                    counterpart of a perfect humanity. I do not, therefore, believe in the gospel of human despair, and
                    that the work of creation is an abortion, but that "all we have willed or hoped or dreamed
                    of Good shall exist,—not its semblance, but itself."
         
         
         
            Indiana Historical Society
            The Eighteenth Indiana History Conference will be held at the Claypool Hotel, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , December 11 and 12. This conference is sponsored and the expenses paid for by the
                    Society of Indiana Pioneers, the Indiana Historical Society, and the state Historical Bureau. The
                    Indiana History Teachers' Association also joins in the conference and holds its annual
                    meeting Saturday morning, December 12, as part of the general program; it also has its annual
                    luncheon and business meeting Friday noon, December 11. The Society of Indiana Pioneers has its
                    luncheon and annual business meeting Saturday noon and its formal annual dinner Saturday evening. In
                    addition, there will be general sessions Friday afternoon and evening. An archaeological session and
                    a genealogical session are to be held Saturday morning and a general session Saturday afternoon. As
                    usual, there will be a breakfast for college teachers of history and political science at the
                    Athletic Club, Saturday morning, December 12.
            The program of the conference will be printed and distributed by the Historical Bureau, State Library
                    and Historical Building, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Under the auspices of the Conference of Historical Societies, a Handbook of Historical
                        Societies in the 
                            United States
                         and 
                            Canada
                        
                has been compiled and is to be published shortly by the secretary of the
                    Conference, Christopher B. Coleman. This supplements and brings down to date a Handbook
                        of American Historical Societies compiled for the Conference by Joseph Schafer, of the 
                        Wisconsin
                     State Historical Society, and published in 1926. It lists all historical organizations
                    in the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Canada
                     about which information could be obtained, which are not organized for profit and which
                    have substantial elements of permanence and effectiveness, such as a permanent address,
                    publications, library, museum and continued activity in some line of historical work. Historical
                    sections of libraries, university departments, and offices which are primarily subdivisions of
                    agencies devoted to other subjects are not included.
            The number and resources of historical organizations are rather impressive. The combined resources of
                    state and local organizations are in striking contrast to the meager resources  of the American Historical Association. On the other hand, the
                    accomplishments of state and local historical societies are not as impressive as they might well be
                    expected to be. Important collections have been assembled, many valuable publications have been
                    issued and are being issued, impressive historical memorials have been erected and a good deal of
                    publicity has been given to historical subjects by meetings and by magazines. One cannot escape the
                    impression, however, that, in view of the number of people interested and the resources available,
                    more progress ought to be registered in historical research and in making people generally more
                    historically minded. In the opinion of the writer there has been improvement in recent years in both
                    respects and more significant work is to be expected.
            In addition to the projected publications of the Indiana Historical Society described in the June
                    issue of the Magazine, the following articles are in preparation with a view to
                    publication: "Early Commerce in Southern Indiana," by Mrs. Grace Clark Campbell, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; "Ouiatenon," by Amos W. Butler, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; "The History of Camp Morton, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ," by J. R. H. Moore, Emmerich Manual Training High School, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; "Ulysses P. Schenck," by Mrs. Corinne S. Dahmen, 
                        Vevay
                    ; "Early Railroad History of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ," by Wylie J. Daniels, 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; and "Canadian Volunteers in the War of 1812," by Augustus R. Markle, 
                        Terre Haute
                    .
         
         
         
            History Teachers' Forum: LAURA DONNAN
            VIRGINIA COX
            
            Laura Donnan was born on June 4, 1854, in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Her father, David Donnan, was born in 
                  Glasgow, Scotland
               , and her mother,
                    Barbara Pressal in 
                  Harrisburg, Pennsylvania
               . The Donnan children, four girls and two boys,
                    led simple but interesting lives. They were taught to comply implicitly with all requirements of
                    their parents. Laura Donnan began to teach in 1873. After teaching in 
                        Knightstown
                     and 
                        Cambridge
                     City, she came to 
                        Indianapolis
                     to teach in the High School in 1883.
            Miss Donnan had passed through the grades and high school and attended a Normal School in 
                        Indianapolis
                     before going to the University of 
                        Michigan
                     from which she was graduated. She liked to teach. She was deeply interested in boys and
                    girls, and she believed in the public schools. She stood staunchly and firmly for what was upright,
                    honest and truly progressive. She required the boys and girls in her classes to obey and to work.
                    She was fair to all no matter from what homes or from what part of the city they came. She reveled
                    in her democracy. She was a teacher in word and deed. She had a well-trained and well-disciplined
                    mind. She wanted the students in her classes to think as well as become acquainted with the facts of
                    history. She expected results and got them. She stressed regular plans of study, and also encouraged
                    an interest in the living side of history. Her classes were not conducted without humor. Her droll
                    criticisms were effective but left no sting. Her dry humor pleased her students greatly but was void
                    of rancour.
            She believed in a limited amount of extra-curricular activity. She thought that clubs and meetings
                    were a healthy stimulant to a child's education, if they were not pursued to the detriment
                    of the study program. One of the most helpful, most influential and most constructive of any high
                    school organization was of her own making, the Shortridge High School Senate. Formulated in the
                    class room, the Senate was a teaching device without the actual title "school"
                    written upon it. The Senate was in reality, a "self-government" class. The members
                         had charge of the meetings, with Miss Donnan interrupting
                    only when absolutely necessary.
            She organized the Senate in 1887. It was formed as a part of the class program of study of her class
                    in Civil Government. She was at that time called the "Critic." Only those who were
                    taking, or who had taken Civil Government, or who had made good grades, or showed promise were
                    admitted after her recommendation. Later this was changed, and as the Senate met after school hours,
                    any pupil, well behaved and interested, was admitted after taking the oath of office. The club was
                    very inclusive, barring none on account of race or color. That equality of persons which is so
                    sought for in our government was prevelant in this Senate. In time Miss Donnan's title was
                    changed from "Critic" to "Sergeant-At-Arms."
            The Senate was modeled on the august body which sits in 
                        Washington
                    . Bills were written by the members, covering themes or subjects which interested them
                    or which stirred them to patriotic zeal. Very seldom, if ever, was anything allowed to interfere
                    with a meeting, and the members convened promptly.
            A write-up of the year 1926 which appeared in the Echo, school paper of the
                    Shortridge High School, stated that at the close of a Senate session, "Miss Donnan, the
                    sergeant-at-arms, then made remarks to the Senate, saying that a good recipe for keeping order is to
                    write bills, worth-while, prepare good speeches, and deliver them well … that she would
                    read every bill and make any unworthy bill acquainted with the waste-paper basket."1
            
            Deviations from the regular meetings of the Senate were: the Annual Mock Trial, which dated back to
                    the old days of Room D. where the Civil Government classes first met in the old Shortridge building;
                    the Extemporaneous Contest; the Annual Pin Contest; and the Senate Banquet.
            Miss Donnan encouraged speech-making and did not judge an unprepared speech harshly, knowing that to
                    think and talk well while on one's feet is a difficult activity. A Senate report records
                    that, "the critic made her report, complimenting the good speeches as usual, and
                    reprimanding those unfortunates who had made errors in grammar."2 The
                    Extemporaneous Contest gave the senators a chance to speak on current events, 
                  
                     1
                            Shortridge Echo, December 6, 1926.
                  
                     2
                            Ibid., October 26, 1898.
               
                     whereas the Pin Contest required memorized orations on the
                    Constitution or some phase of it.
            It pleased this vigorous high school teacher greatly to hear from her pupils after they had gone out
                    into the world. She was proud of them, and the Senate was undoubtedly her favorite organization. It
                    made possible much originality and gave birth to much wit. There was nothing forced about the
                    Senate, except discipline. No one had to come, no one had to stay.
            The first edition of the Echo initiated something entirely new in high school
                    literary life, a daily paper. It was a great undertaking. Fletcher Waggoner, a student of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     High School, started the Echo as his own private venture, the first
                    edition being issued on September 26, 1898. The New Echo appeared on January 16,
                    1899. This was in honor of the taking over of young Waggoner's work as a Shortridge High
                    School project. "To control the editorial board," that issue said, "the
                    faculty has appointed Miss Donnan."
            She censored or struck out any word or remark that would cause discomfort to any innocent person.
                    Unpleasant jokes were discarded quickly. She was very liberal in her outlook on the tastes and
                    theories of others, but editorials or news of a disagreeable nature were readily and fully
                    corrected. She appreciated a stand taken against dishonesty or prevarication, but she heartily
                    disapproved of views expressed belittling a person on account of race, color or poverty.
            She stressed good expression of ideas, straightforward statements and correct spelling. She often
                    mentioned legibility of copy as a convenience. She insisted on copy being in on time, as much for
                    the training of the pupil as for the accommodation of the printer. She liked up to date editorials,
                    clever jokes and well-written news articles. She scorned a flowery, affected style and always
                    commented favorably upon simple writing.
            After two years, other teachers took up four of the five editions of the week, and Miss Donnan was
                    relieved of all but Monday's Echo, which she censored until 1926. At this
                    time, she relinquished her censorship for the sake of her health. The Monday staff for November 3,
                    1926, dedicated the issue of the day to her.
            Plans for an association to promote oratory were launched in the winter of 1896–97. It was
                    Frank 
                        Spencer
                    's  thought that high schools throughout
                    the state should join in a "contest oratorical." He wrote to a few of the schools,
                    but received little encouragement. He then started the 
                        Indianapolis
                     High School Oratorical Association, the I.H.S.O.A., he called it, and a bit later could
                    proudly write: "By the by, the yeast began to work, and aided by the contagious enthusiasm
                    of Miss Donnan, the Oratorical Association has achieved its now ‘proud and
                    harty’ [sic] place of eminence."3 The membership soon grew
                    to one hundred. Any member of the school could join. The dues were five cents a month. Miss Donnan
                    was chosen critic for the organization.
            It was not long until high schools outside of 
                        Indianapolis
                     became interested. The initial state high school contest was held at the English Opera
                    House on the evening of March 31, 1899. Miss Donnan had charge of the tickets and was the general
                    sponsor of the contest. An article in the school paper thanked her: "Let our theme be
                    announced as the great and underlying principle of much of our present success.—an I.H.S.
                    teacher [Miss Donnan]. The success of the late primary contest; the success of the Senate; the
                    success of the Oratorical Association and the Keyes Association; and the Daily
                    Echo, stand today, the living monuments to her zeal and school patriotism."4
            
            That she was interested in those who desired to educate themselves is evinced by the following. She,
                    with several other teachers then teaching in 
                        Indianapolis
                     High Schools, donated her services for a night school course. The school enrolled over
                    fifty pupils, more than half of them colored, ranging in age from fifteen to fifty-three years. This
                    school started on the fifth of December, 1899, and was held every Monday night. There was no tuition
                    charge and the teachers received no pay. The credits gained were transferable to day school,
                    enabling many a person to graduate, who otherwise would have had no opportunity to do so.5
            
            
               
                  3
                        Ibid., March 30, 1899.
               
                  4
                        Ibid., February 27, 1899.
               
                  5 Miss Donnan was also interested in athletics. She served as the manager
                        of the first girls' basketball team which was organized in the school year of
                        1898–1899. Soon after the first team was organized, the manager found that she had
                        enough material for four teams. Later on two freshman teams were formed. Miss Donnan derived
                        much pleasure from her work as manager of basketball teams. She found the girls to be respectful
                        and ready to do whatever they were asked to do. She was very fond of football, and, though often
                        bothered by colds, bad weather could not keep her away from a game in which the Shortridge team
                        was a contestant. She served on the Athletic Board of the High School, and was treasurer for
                        several years.
            
            
            While at the University of 
                        Michigan
                    , Miss Donnan took quite a little work in law. She was interested in it and understood
                    it well. She was very staunch in her praise of the Constitution and knew the whole of it by heart.
                    Her book, Our Governments, deals with the national and state Constitutions. The
                    revised edition was printed in 1918, and she was starting to revise it again when her last illness
                    overtook her.
            In the preface of the little volume, the author says: "This book, which is the result of 17
                    years experience in teaching the subject of Civil Government has two purposes: to instruct the youth
                    in regard to the origin, character, and political working of our government; to arouse the civic
                    conscience."
            She presented to each member of the school Senate a copy of this book at the Senate banquet in 1928,
                    her last meeting with the organization. The book is dedicated to her pupils, and, on the dedication
                    page, she wrote in her own hand: "Laura Donnan, Sergeant-at-arms,
                    1887–1928."
            The "Cubby Hole," known and respected as Miss Donnan's, was a quaint bit
                    of the old Shortridge building (razed a few years ago). The room was a small one under the stairs
                    where the "Clock of '99" stood for so many years, and just off a main
                    hall of the building. There she could often be found, when she had no class, reading, grading papers
                    or just thinking. She brought her lunch from home, and ate it in that little room. Often she read as
                    she ate for she had a passion for books.
            Laura Donnan, the teacher, died on August 26, 1930. For sometime she had been in ill health, and an
                    accident gave such a shock to her nervous system that she did not recover. Thus passed on a very
                    courageous, brave and beautiful soul—a great teacher, and a greater example. She was kind
                    and gentle, but when aroused by any injustice done to others, took their part nobly. She had a
                    delightful sense of humor, and was truly diplomatic, insomuch as she did not consciously cultivate
                    diplomacy. Great and far-reaching was her influence, greater by far than she ever realized,
                    receiving as she did the silent gratitude of a host of young friends.
         
         
         
            Documents
            A VISIT TO EASTON
            Edited By AMOS W. BUTLER
            
            It is surprising how from unexpected sources valuable historical material conies. A reprint, from the
                    December, 1935, number of the Indiana Magazine of History, of the paper,
                    "An Old Peace Medal" was sent to William H. Woolley, an official member of the
                    Bristol and Somersetshire Friends Meeting, Bristol, 
                        England
                    . Their buildings are located on the former property of the Black Friars established
                    there in the thirteenth century. The meeting is popularly known as the "Friars Friends
                    Meeting," sometimes abbreviated to "Friars." It is one of the earliest
                    meetings established. William Penn was a member of it and there he and Hannah Callowhill were
                    married, as were also my ancestors John Butler and Bersheba Noble Combs. From it came many of
                    America's earliest pioneers. The names Price, Noble, 
                        Butler
                    , Wynn, Callowhill, Bevan, Grove and Worley, among others familiar in Indiana, appear
                    upon its records.
            It was among the records of this meeting that I came across two cancelled mortgages, one a renewal,
                    said to be unknown to historians, from William Penn to certain persons of Bristol and 
                        London
                     for his "entire province of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    ." These documents have, I understand, been transferred to the city of Bristol.
            Mr. Woolley is interested in the work of Friends in America. His letter of acknowledgement at the
                    receipt of the article on the Peace Medal was of interest in itself, as well as in its references to
                    the document which it brought to light, and to the visits of Friends to their brethren in America,
                    even in the early days of "Friars." Among other things, he says: 
                        I have been much interested in reading your reprint, "An Old Indiana Peace
                            Medal." Seeing in it a reference to the conference of Indians at Easton, 
                                Pennsylvania
                             in 1756 [1757], I remembered that we have in our safes at the Friars a very
                            ancient manuscript written in 1761 giving an account of a visit to Easton at the time of the
                            Treaty. Although it will be seen that the date written is 1761 it has reference to
                            happenings which may possibly have taken place at an earlier date while the writer of the
                            document was in America. The meetings described were of a religious character after the
                            manner of Friends under the shade of the trees in the grove where the Treaty was held. The
                            Governor of 
                            
                                Pennsylvania
                             while at the conference at Easton, attended the religious meetings with the
                            Indians.
                    
            
            The manuscript mentions the giving of presents but does not state that they were medals. Susannah
                    Hatton is spoken of as being a Friend from "Europe."
            Following the report of the discovery of the above mentioned manuscript the William H. Smith Memorial
                    Library sought a photostat of its pages. Through the kindness of Mr. Wooley, such a copy is now in
                    the Smith Library and from it the printing below—An Echo from Abroad—is taken.
            [THE ACCOUNT OF THE VISIT TO EASTON]
            
                    Some Account of a Visett divers freinds made to the Indians at the time of the Treaty at Easton
                        taken by one of the Company as follows—1761 8th mo. 4 being 3 days of the week I set
                        out from 
                            Philadelphia
                         [Aug. 4] after (our youths Meeting) in Company with our esteemed friend Susannah
                        Hatton Susannah 
                            Brown
                         and Several other friends 5 and was at a youth Meeting at Eichland on in our way to
                        [Aug. 5] Easton where the Governor of 
                            Pennsylvania
                         was attending a Treaty with a Large Number of Indians according to the best Accot I
                        could collect about 450 of different Nations Viz
                    
                  
                     Cayugos
                     Tuteloes
                  
                  
                     Onadoes
                     Mohickons
                  
                  
                     Nanticokes
                     Muncies &
                  
                  
                     Conoys
                     Delawares1
                     
                  
               
                    About 80 of the Delawares were of the religious Indians that we had some Accot of before their
                        chiefs name is papoonhong2 who (with some of his people) where at 
                            Philadelphia
                         last Summer they informed us that theire are about 300 of those Indians who have
                        some religious Impressions collected together in one Town called Qu[e]sheloosick Upon
                        Susquahannah River about 200 Miles from 
                            Philadelphia
                         whom S.H had it weightily upon her mind to visitt & on that accot took this
                        opportunity to see those that where at Easton some freinds that got theire before us had
                        informed them that a Woman freind from Europe was coming to see them on a religious Accot at
                        which I was told they were much Affected 6 we got there on fifth day in the afternoon as soon as
                        [Aug. 6] the Indians heard that we were come to town Paphoonhongs wife with about 12 other
                        Squaws (the Indians term for Weoman) & a few Men came to the House where we were
                        & desired to shake hands with theire Sisters & being introduced to the Women
                        freinds they took them by the hands without speaking at which the Indians were much tendred
                        & the tears run, down theire cheeks when they had done shaking hands, they 
                     
                        1 Cayugas, Oneidas, Nanticokes, Conoys, Tutelos, Mohicans,
                                Munsees, Delawares. See Handbook of American Indians North of Mexico (
                                    United States
                                 Bureau of Ethnologry, Bulletin No. 30).
                     
                        2 Popunhank or Papunhank. See Rev. John Heckewelder, The Indian Nations Who Inhabited 
                                        Pennsylvania
                                     and the Neighboring States (
                                    Philadelphia
                                , 1876), 197. Papagonks, the name of a branch of an Indian group, probably
                                of the Munsees. Handbook of American Indians, I, 957.
                  
                         sat down & divers Freinds being present sat down
                        with them in Silence, the overshaddowing of antient goodness was soon felt to the tendering of
                        most if not all hearts present, great brokenness appeared among the Indians in the time of
                        Silence, after some time of Seting our (hearts being deeply bowed under renued sence of a
                        Mercyfull & Gracious Visitation from on high, which was eminently manifested) Susannah
                        Hatton was concerned publickly, in thanksgiving to the Author & fountain of all good, in
                        that he was pleased to make himself known to a people that knew him not & Supplications
                        for the continuation of his favourable regard, which was at that time extended in a remarkable
                        manner, & was the most Melting season I ever saw amongst such a number of people in the
                        evening the Women with divers other freinds went to Papoonhongs tents which were seperate from
                        the other Indians after shaking hands which they did in an affectionate Manner, his wife spread
                        Blanketts on some boards they had for Seats, and Invited freinds to sett down, which we did
                        & after a Little pause papoonhong said that he was glad to see his Sister &
                        Shake hands with her (S. H.) & added that he was poor and weak, she returned for answer
                        that she was glad to see him, & that tho' he was poor, the Lord was Ritches in
                        poverty and Strength in weakness who would not forsake them that trusted in him some remarks
                        were Likewise made concerning the excellent effects of Love which we beleived drew them to see
                        us & Drew us to see them and after some farther time of Silence he spoke something which
                        was not interpretted but on inquiring of the interpreter he told me that it was to the Indians,
                        telling them they ought to be thankfull that theire freinds encouraged them the Governour
                        answered Severell Speeches that the Cheifs of divers Nations of Indians had made to him before
                        we got there, which we attended and in the afternoon freinds appointed a Meeting at 5 o Clock to
                        be held Under the Shade where the treaty was held, & having the Governours approbation
                        the Indians were Generally acquainted with it & a Large Number of them particularly
                        Papoonhong Co attended, as allso the Governour, his Counsill & many more of the white
                        people both freinds and others so that it was a Large gathering, there was abundance of the
                        Germans, who stood round about the tent was very rude & noisy but the Governours Conduct
                        in endeavouring to Silence them was much to be commended we had a time of deep waiting, ouer
                        minds being reverently thankfull to the Allmighty, who was pleased to afford a Dreegre of his
                        giving presence which affected many hearts Susannah Hatton being Under a Weighty and Close
                        engagement stood up in the Love of the Gospell and was led in the beginning to speak in a way
                        pretty much adapted for the Indians with a pause between each Sentence in which intervall Job
                        Chillaway (an Indian) interpretted what She said to the Indians she recomended them to the
                        inward Monitor, setting forth what an excellent priviledge it was to be favoured with it and
                        that it was freely offered to people of all Nations Colours & denominations, but after
                        some time her Servise was turned more towards the whites, the Interpretter Left off &
                        she preached the Gospell in the demonstration of Life & with authority which affected
                        many present, so that the Governour acknowledged after Meeting it was the truth, the Meeting
                        ended in prayer & praises to the Allmighty  who
                        graciously condesended to come down from his high & holy place & display his
                        Loving kindness amongst us again in an eminent Manner At the close of the Meeting our said
                        freind went About among the Indians (who generally kept there Seats) & gave them her
                        hand at which they where much affected and wept exceedingly when she had gone near through, she
                        Expressed a few words owning them as our Bretheren & Sisters she said they were so by
                        Creation & trusted some of them would be so by regeneration, incouraging them to trust
                        in god & said that if they loved him he wou'd never forsake them Untill he
                        brought them where all Tears shou'd be wiped away, Which Isaac Still (and Indian)
                        interpretted to them the Cheifs of the Conoys (whose Name is Last night) was at this Meeting
                        & wept Much he is a pretty countenanced Indian & alltho' he has been a
                        great warriour & was much engaged in there Counsills while at Easton he attended divers
                        of our Meetings & was much broken into Tears at Each of them Severell freinds went (in
                        the Morning) to paphoonhongs Quarters & had a pretty deale of conversation with him
                        principally on religious Subject[s] he said that he came down with an intent to open his Mind to
                        freinds but he was Afraid he had done wrong in Coming with the other Indians that he was poor
                        & week & there was so much Drunkenness & Noise that it made him sorry
                        yet he was willing at a Suitable time when he Cou'd be quiet & Still to lett
                        freinds know how it had been with him & what he had known and felt of the Opperation of
                        the good Spirit & observed that when people Discoursed about theire Makar they
                        Shou'd not be Gazing About hearing & seeing other things but be steady Looking
                        downwards for those were Serious Matters and Queried whether freinds had heard anything of some
                        reports that Where raised concerning him & another Indian (that satt by) at Shamokins
                        Last Year which he said was lies he was told it was no Wonder the World told lies of good
                        religious people that the Saviour of the world had lies told of him & was called
                        Belzebub, the prince of Devils, that our freinds in the beginning were imprisoned &
                        whip'd & that those who Lived good Lives must Expect to Suffer he said he knew
                        it very well at the first sense he had of this goodness he now felt that bad men wou'd
                        try to hinder all the good they Cou'd he was Likewise told that we were glad to hear
                        that it made him sorry to see & hear so Much Drunkenness and Noise that we felt the same
                        way & that good men Cou'd not be in the Company of bad Men without being
                        Affected even the Spirrits of bad Men when there was no Noise made, frequently affected our
                        Spirits so that we cou'd not rejoyce but Mourn for when the Wicked bore rule the Land
                        mourn'd but when the Righteous bore Rule we cou'd rejoyce he told us that God
                        had been so kind to them that his young Men had Success in hunting & killed a great many
                        Deers so they brought down some skins which they desired his freinds to accept of as a token of
                        his Love. A freind told him it was quite Unexpected to us, & as providence had favoured
                        us with abundance he thought we Ought rather to be helpfull to them & Excused freinds
                        from receiveing theire presents at which he was uneasy3 & said when
                        God was so -kind as to favour them with plenty they 
                     
                        3 The word as written appears to be unenemy. but
                                    uneasy is probably what was intended.
                  
                         cou'd not be content to Eat theire Morsell alone
                        but thought of theire freinds that this was the practice of theire forefathers therefore they
                        had brought those skins & again requested freinds wood accept of them he was informed
                        that we shou'd see him again & make him Easy on that Accot
                        & Desired him not to take it amiss that we did not at once receive them that we
                        wou'd at a Suitable time get a few freinds together & Acquaint him that he
                        might with such of his people as he thought proper attend & have an opportunity of
                        opening his Mind to us He acquanted us that he Apprehended he was Misunderstood in something he
                        had said to the Governour about Lands for it was not his buisness down to complain on that
                            accot his mind being other ways engage'd that if he
                        cou'd have peace in himself & git a Liveing it was all he wanted In the Evening
                        some freinds had a setting at the Womens Lodging (Samuel Curtis and his Wife, two Indians of the
                        Nanticoke tribe) were there, some Necessary hints were drop'd to freinds by way of
                        Testimony & those Natives were told that if they kept near to that hand which had at
                        first visitted & humbled them the Lord wou'd make his power known in preserving
                        from Evill so that they wou'd be an Encourgement & help to such as beheld them
                        they were sollid & Sober cou'd speak good English & we had a pritty
                        deale of conversation with them 9th to Satisfaction Being 1st day of the Week we had two [Aug.
                        9] Meetings Under the Shade were the Treaty was held theire was a Large Numbr of Indians at them
                        both & satt very Sollid but many of the Inhabitants who are mostly Germans stood round
                        about us exceeding Unmannerly in talking to Each in Companye and seemed the most thoughtless
                        stuped people that I have seen particularly at the time of the Morning Meeting near the
                        conclusion of which our freind S. H stdod up being cloathed with Authority & repremanded
                        them closely for theire rude behaviour advising them who called themselves Christians to take
                        those whom they call'd no Christians for theire Example, telling them that those they
                        called Heathen demonstrated by there Conduct that they were nearer the kingdom then many of
                        those called Christians and Exhorted them to prepare for the time to Come some of the heads of
                        theire Soceity told us after Meeting that such conduct was common at their own places of Worship
                        (so Stupid are professed Christians) In the Evening we went to see a Girl about 16 years old
                        that was a Captive among the Indians whom they brought with them & had the day before
                        delevered to the Governour but we were informed was gone back to the Indians & that she
                        was not willing to Leave them when she saw us Coming she hid herself among the Bushes but at
                        Length an Indian Man pointed towards the place were she was & we found her she was
                        Exceedingly Shy and Seemed afraid of us, we requested some of the Indians to bring her to our
                        Quarters which they did but we cou'd not prevail on her to stay the Squaw she belonged
                        to came with her & both She and the 10th Girl Cryed exceedingly they were so fraid of
                        being parted [Aug. 10] paphoonong & Severell of his Company came to our Quarters
                        severell freinds being theire the Interpretter was desired to inform him that we were sorry that
                        anything that was said respecting theire present shou'd give him Uneseaness that we had
                        Likewise been Mindfull of them & was not come Empty handed but as we were Upon Matters
                             of greatar consequence (meaning Religious Matters) we
                        thought it best to defer the presents till towards the Last & as he was now here
                        & severell freinds present if he inclined to open his mind to us it might be a Suitable
                        time for it now after some pause which they Generally make before they reply to Each other he
                        said that as for them two Men that Satt by him he Cou'd not tell how it was with them
                        but said he had Often seen them praying to god but as for his part he knew his Own heart that he
                        Meant honestly therefore he was not Afraid to open his Mind to freinds & observed that
                        theire was abundance of Wicked people abroad in the World which made him Sorry & afraid
                        of his heart being Corrupted by them and that it was nessessary for those that had good hearts
                        to keep together that when he heard of any that was Religious he went to see them in order that
                        they might strengthen one another & that was what made go too & froo in this
                        Manner he Expressed that he was glad to have an opportunity of conversing with his Brethern,
                        they having had Expereince of this good Longer then he & as for his Sister Meaning S. H,
                        who had come a great way on that Accot he was willing she Shou'd know
                        how it had been with him & when he felt this goodness he Shou'd pray for her as
                        Long as he Lived saying that his Makar had Loved him by giveing him to feel it in his heart it
                        caused him to Love his Bretheren so that at times he thought if any body injured or hurt him he
                        Cou'd Notwithstanding) Love him as a Brother & try to doe him good but he said
                        at other times he was poor and week & afraid of Loosing this good which made him
                        desirous of praying Continually to his Makar that he Might be preserved from Evill Freinds gave
                        him Suitable advice Shewing wherein we Acquiesed with him for his incouragment and S.H droped a
                        few lively hints as advise & Caution to freinds after which we had a time of Silence
                        & then he said that has [as] we had felt something that was good he Wou'd Leave
                        it to us to break up, when we pleased It was Concluded to have a Meeting with them at theire
                        Cabbins Next Morning at 6 o Clock & we 11th parted for that time this morning Divers
                        freinds went to [Aug. 11] there Cabbins they were Generally present & some Indians of
                        other Tribes After we had satt a While in Silence papoonhong desired to know whether we Expected
                        him to inform us how it had been with him since the Allmighty made this good thing known to him
                        & said it wou'd take a pritty deale of time he was informed that we had a Mind
                        to sett together in a Sollid Manner & if any thing rose fresh in his Mind to offer we
                        were willing to hear it, or if anything opened in any of our Minds we might Likewise Commuincate
                        it & after some further time of Silence our much Esteemed freind S: H appeared in
                        Supplycation to the god of power who is Visitting the Nations & Extending Salvation to
                        the Gentiles that he Wou'd be Near not only to those present but also to theire familys
                        left Behind giving them to see more clearly into the Misteries of his kingdom that they Might be
                        as Lights to the Dark Nations round about them And after that Moordecai Yarnell William Brown
                        & Susannah Hatton Droped something by way of Testimony which Isaac Still interpreted to
                        the Indians in which they where told of the Coming of our Saviour how he appeared to Mankind in
                        this Gospell dispensation by his Spirit and for what End they Likewise expressed  some of theire own Experences of the Workings of grace or that good
                        Spirit in them & the Nature of true worship was explaned they were Likewise told that it
                        might be acceptably performed without any verball preaching that it was sometimes the lott of
                        those that came from farr to Visitt theire Bretheren & Sisters in the Love of the
                        Gospell to sett in silence a whole meeting and that the Allmighty was pleased to bestow a gift
                        of the Ministry or lay a constraint on Women as well as Men to preach the Gospell but that they
                        cou'd not in a profitable manner speak of the good things of god when they pleased but
                        when he was pleased to move upon theire Understandings & put somthing in theire hearts
                        to offer to the people then it reach'd the Witness in others & was servisable,
                        Last Night an Indian named4 was at this Meeting & was again much
                        broken into tenderness so that at the conclusion of the Meeting when S. H. took him by the hand
                        he cou'd not speak for weeping but had his Blankett up to his face & indeed it
                        was another melting Season to those poor Creatures in Generall as well as to freinds present.
                    12th theire Cabbins who were very tender & parted affection- [Aug. 12] ately, an Indian
                        man told S. H. that he never expected to see her again with these mortall Eyes but he
                        hop'd they might meet in another World. When we left theire Cabbins a Squaw followed us
                        took S. H. by the hand & walked with her to her Quarters & was much affected at
                        parting.
                    Perhaps some may be ready to conclude that all this brokenness that appeared amongst them
                        proceeded only from there Passions being Affected by outward causes, which I readely allow may
                        through the strength of immagination carry people great Lengths if not well Garded, but this
                        could have no part in papoonhongs convincement being at first reach'd to without any
                        instrumentall means & become reformed from a debauth'd, drunken bad man to be
                        exceeding circumspect in his conduct (by all accounts that we have had of him) &
                        likewise the other Indians Joyned in Society with him which together with the many undoubted
                        evidences of divine favour being remarkably extended to them when at Easton leaves me no room to
                        doubt its being a Visitation from on high & that they have in a good degree
                        Joyn'd in with it Notwithstanding they may yet Loose it in case they shoud grow
                        indifferent & careless but I hope better things for them.
                    I was informed by a freind who stayed till the treaty ended that Severell freinds were at
                        Papoonhongs Camp when they were informed that the Government of 
                            Pennsylvania
                         was going to Delever theire presents to the Indians (which is customary at those
                        treatys that the Indians were all Silent for a Little space & then an elderly man said
                        that they did not come to settle any Matters with the Government nor choose to come with those
                        that wid but they came to visett thire Bretheren & had not been at this Treaty but by
                        the perswasion of other Indians therefore he thought not right to pertake of the Governments
                        presents to which they all agreed, and took no part of it Notwithstanding freinds thought that
                        theire proportions of it wou'd not been less then one hundred pound 
                     
                        4 The expression, "an Indian named," is found on
                                the left margin of the eleventh page of the manuscript, with a cross in the text to
                                indicate where the insertion should be made, but the name is not given.
                  
                         worth of goods such as Wou'd been very Usefull to
                        them & they concienciously refused to accept of it which induced freinds (who had
                        concluded to receive theire presents) to add to what they intended to give them in return After
                        the Treaty was over & people generally gone from the town Except two freinds who stayed
                        after the rest the Cheifs of the other Nations councellors came to theire Lodging & said
                        that theire Bretheren the English came to theire town some time ago & told them that
                        they were going to take a French Fort & promesed that if they wou'd go
                        & help them they shou'd have all the Prisoners they took to make up the Number
                        of theire people which they might loose in the Action which they did & one of them who
                        was not less by apperance then Eighty years of age rushed in & brought a man away in the
                        heat of the Battle at a great Hazard of his own Life, whom they brought with them to this treaty
                        & he had made his Escape & that they thought the people of this Government had
                        assisted him in gitting away & Queried whether they cou'd think that Like
                        Brotherly Usage, to which the freinds replied that they did not know the Man was gone from them
                        & that they had no hand in helping him away nor any hand in the War, or unity with such
                        a Promise that prisoners taken in War should be kept from theire own people [for the] term of
                        Life & that if the Indians took heed to that Love of god which many of them had felt in
                        theire hearts as that treaty it wou'd Lead them from all Wars & Fightings
                        & to do all Men as they wou'd men Shou'd do to them & if any
                        of them were taken by force & carried among the French it was Likely, they
                        wou'd be desirous to return to theire own flesh and blood) which might be the case with
                        that Frenchman & they wou'd have them be very easy to Let him go which all of
                        them seemed to give into & parted with those Freinds in great Love and harmony
                        tho' most of them had been great Warriours in the present Wars between the French and
                        English & Divers Nations of Indians so that the princeple of truth & freind
                        seems to Meet with reception where it was Little Expected & I hope the painfull labour
                        of freinds for the restoration of peace with the Natives by pacifick measures will not return
                        Void for Even those Warriours when in a Sollid conference relating to the Effects of the Love of
                        god to Man Acknowledge'd that all tho freinds did not speak with Belts as is Usual with
                        them when Speaking on Matters of consequence Yet they felt that what was then Spoke came from
                        the Heart & it went to theire hearts & it gave freinds weight with them afresh
                        to recommend what had been delevered to them by the Government to whom they gave Assurance that
                        they wou'd do all in theire power to have it fullfill'd when they got back
                        into the Indian Countrey
                    As the Indians returned home from Easton one of them who was intoxicated with liquour offered
                        some abuse to a white Man who Killed the Indian and after the rest of them got home some freinds
                        of him that was killed sett out in order to revenge the Injury on our back inhabitants by
                        shedding blood, but when they got to Queheloosick Paphoonhong & his people Understanding
                        what they where going about made them Presents of large Quantityes of Wompom to the Value of
                        Many pounds in Order to appease theire wrath & prevailed on them to Stop Untill they
                        sent Messengers to the Government of Pensylvania in  order
                        that the Matter Might be accommodated without spilling Blood and Accordingly dispatched severell
                        of the Most Considerable of theire people immediately notwithstanding it was theire best Hunting
                        Season which was a great loss to them in that respect our Governour (upon receiving the
                        information, being desirous of the asistance) of freinds two of them Offered to go with a
                        Message to those Indians & being Charged therewith & some presents went to
                        Wyoming where they Met them and settled Matters to Satisfaction Papoonhong haveing gone down to
                        Shamokin while his people came to 
                            Philadelphia
                         intending to Meet them on theire return at Wyoming but meeting with severall other
                        Indians theire whome he reproved for some Misconduct at which one of them being displeased
                        struck him severell times with his Tom hawk (a Small Hatchett) with which he wounded him
                        exceedingly so that his Life was Much dispaired of on which the other Indians tyed this rude
                        fellow but Papoonhong was endued with so much of a Christian Spirrit that he requested he might
                        be loos'd & not hurt on his Account, Saying let him go he is a poor Indian
                        which in Measure proves that what he said to us at Easton was truth that tho any person
                        Shou'd injure or hurt him he cou'd notwithstanding try to do him good
                
         
         
            THE FIRST STEP TOWARDS A PUBLIC LAW LIBRARY
            
            [The following report of a meeting to establish a Public Law Library in Indiana which was held in
                    Corydon on November 10, 1820, with additional information in regard to the effort to carry out the
                    plans of the meeting, comes from the Indiana Gazette (Corydon) of December 1,
                    1820. Miss Esther U. McNitt of the Indiana State Library copied the report from the Gazette which she found in the Library of Congress. All who are acquainted with the Law
                    Library of Indiana, consisting of 50,000 volumes, which is maintained by the state and supervised by
                    the Indiana Supreme Court, will be interested to learn about the initial step taken at Corydon in
                    1820 by a group of public-spirited leaders to provide for a Public Law Library "to be kept
                    at the seat of government."]
            
                    Corydon, Nov. 10, 1820
               
                    At a meeting of a number of persons at the Court House in Corydon on the 10th day of Nov. 1820
                        for the purpose of forming a public Law Library, to be kept at the seat of Government for the
                        State of Indiana, His Excellency Jonathan Jennings was called to the chair; and Harbin H. Moore
                        appointed Secretary.
                    Resolved by the meeting that the following articles of association be adopted.
                    For the purpose of forming a law library, the undersigned agree to the following articles of
                        association:
                    1st. The officers of the association shall consist of five managers and a Librarian.
                    
                    2d. The managers shall be elected annually on the Wednesday of the first week of the fall term of
                        the Supreme Court; and all elections shall be by ballot.
                    3. The managers shall meet from time to time, as they may think proper, and order the purchase of
                        such books, as the funds of the association may enable them to procure.
                    4th. No determined number of subscribers shall be necessary to form a quorum at an annual
                        meeting; but at a special meeting, which the managers are authorized to call, one third of the
                        whole number shall be necessary.
                    5th. Three managers shall have power to appoint a Librarian and to remove him when necessary,
                        whose duty it shall be to register the proceedings of the meetings of the members, and of the
                        managers; and to provide a place for, and take care of the books; and to collect, keep an
                        account of, and disburse on an order of the managers for that purpose, the monies due and
                        belonging to the association.
                    7th. A contribution of ten dollars in specie, or its equivalent, shall be paid by each subscriber
                        at the annual meeting; provided however, that no payment shall be required until the first
                        Wednesday of the next term of the Supreme Court 1821; and any subscriber failing herein shall
                        pay a fine of twenty five cents for such failure, and one dollar for a delay of every calendar
                        month thereafter.
                    8th. The Library shall be kept at the Seat of Government.
                    9th. The managers shall designate the mode in which the books shall be used; subject however, to
                        the condition, that none but subscribers shall have the use of them.
                    10th. Shares shall be transferred in such manner as the managers shall direct.
                    11th. If the subscribers do not attend at the annual meeting, the managers elected at the
                        previous meeting shall continue to hold their places.
                    12th. Any subscriber who shall be in arrears more than one year, shall not be entitled to the use
                        of the Library until all arrearages are paid.
                    13th. Any person paying at one time to the managers or Librarian, one hundred dollars, for the
                        benefit of the association, shall be considered a member for life, without any further
                        contribution.
                    14th. Any subscriber shall be at liberty to withdraw from the association, upon paying up all
                        arrearages.
                    15th. So soon as ten subscribers shall be obtained to the above articles the association shall be
                        organized and the proper officers elected.
                    The competent number of persons having signed the above articles to organize the association:
                    Resolved, That the members now proceed to the election of officers:
                    Whereupon, Jonathan Jennings, Benjamin Parke, James Scott, Henry Hurst and Harbin H. Moore, were
                        elected managers.
                    Resolved, That the managers prepare a suitable memorial to be presented to the next General
                        Assembly, praying an act of incorporation.
                    
                    Resolved, That the proceedings of the meeting be published in the most convenient paper.
                    Resolved, That this meeting adjourn.
                    JONATHAN JENNINGS
                    Chairman
                    Test:
                    Harbin H. Moore, Secretary.
                
            Soon after the first meeting, the Hon. Jonathan Jennings, Governor of Indiana from 1816 to 1819,
                    resigned as manager.
            
                    Mr. Brandon & Co.
                    Will please announce my resignation as manager, with the publication of the proceedings.
                    J. JENNINGS.
                
            The first meeting of the managers was brief, but they transacted the necessary business, drew up, and
                    signed a report.
            
                    At a meeting of a majority of the managers of the Law Library to be kept at the Seat of
                        Government, at the office of Harbin H. Moore in Corydon on the 25th day of Nov.
                        1820—present James Scott, Henry Hurst, and Harbin H. Moore, the following resolutions
                        were adopted.
                    1st, Resolved, That Henry P. Coburn Esq. be and he is hereby appointed Librarian of the Law
                        Library to be kept at he Seat of Government for the state of Indiana.
                    2d. Resolved, That Benj. Parke esq. be, and he is hereby authorized, and requested to purchase
                        such books at 
                            Vincennes
                        , as he may deem suitable for the Law Library to be kept at the seat of Government;
                        and that the Librarian forward him a copy of this resolution together with a list of the law
                        books in Corydon.
                    3-d. Resolved, That meeting adjourn.
                    JAMES SCOTT
                    A. HURST
                    HARBIN H. MOORE
                    November 24th, 1820
                
         
         
         
            Reviews and Notices
            
               The Territorial Papers of the 
                            United States
                        . Volume IV. The Territory South of the River
                        Ohio, 1790–1796. Compiled and edited by Clarence Edwin Carter.
                    Department of State, 
                        Washington
                    , 1936. Pp. ix, 517, $1.75.
            One state only, 
                        North Carolina
                    , was concerned with the cession to the 
                        United States
                     in 1790 of the western lands which became the Southwest Territory, or more formally,
                    the Territory South of the River Ohio, and one state only, 
                        Tennessee
                    , was erected from these lands.
            Under the terms of the deed of cession, Congress was to "execute" the government of
                    the territory "in a manner similar to that" supported in the Northwest Territory,
                    with the proviso that no regulations be made tending to emancipate slaves. It was stipulated further
                    that the laws in force in 
                        North Carolina
                     at the time of cession be continued in force until repealed or altered by the
                    legislative authority of the territory. The organization and administration of local government,
                    therefore, presented few problems which involved the federal government, and relations of officials
                    within the territory seem to have been harmonious.
            In another important aspect, the administration of the Territory South of the River
                    Ohio proved far simpler than in the Northwest Territory. Most of the lands had been
                    disposed of to speculators or as military grants before the date of cession. Indeed, according to an
                    estimate made by the Secretary of State in 1791, there remained subject to the disposal of the 
                        United States
                     only some 300,000 acres "susceptible of culture," out of 7,500,000
                    acres to which the Indian title had been extinguished. A comparatively small number of papers
                    printed have to do with the land situation or with the question of boundaries.
            A considerable number of documents outline the steps in the cession by 
                        North Carolina
                    , its acceptance by the 
                        United States
                    , and the choice of a territorial governor, secretary, and judges. The establishment of
                    post roads, the census, the entry into a second grade of government, and the final steps tc
                    statehood are also treated at some length in the Governor's correspondence with the
                    Secretary of State and the Postmaster General. Governor William Blount's journal of
                    executive  proceedings from October, 1790, to February, 1796,
                    covers the setting up of the territorial government, the appointment of local officers, the
                    licensing of attorneys and Indian traders, the erection of counties, and the organization of the
                    militia.
            By far the greater share of the papers comprising the volume deal with a problem which unceasingly
                    tormented the federal government and the officials of the territory—the problem of how to
                    secure and maintain peace with the Creeks, the Cherokees, the Chickasaws and the Choctaws. Governor
                    Blount, who was Superintendent of Indian Affairs for the Southern Department as well as the
                    territorial executive, was in no happy position. The federal government enjoined upon him the
                    necessity of securing from the inhabitants of the territory absolute adherence to treaty provisions,
                    demanded drastic punishment of any illegal excursions against the Indians, and preached forbearance
                    and economy in unvarying terms. The people of the frontiers, on their part, reported an endless
                    succession of murders, kidnapings, and thefts ranging from the all-important horse to "the
                    clothes of four families which were in the wash."
            Blount's state of mind is well expressed in a letter to the secretary of war: "You,
                    Sir, can more readily conceive than I can express the feelings and murmurings of a people in the
                    habit of frequently seeing their friends and relations killed and scalped and themselves robbed of
                    their property without the hope (as they declare) of seeing an end to their sufferings except in
                    their own deaths, or by abandoning their houses and homes on the frontiers. My situation is that of
                    daily hearing their complaints, without the power of redress."
            Particularly interesting is a hitherto unprinted memorandum of George 
                        Washington
                    , abstracting the reports made to him on the Indian situation.
            As in volumes II and III of the Territorial Papers, on the Northwest Territory, the
                    editorial work has been done with great care. Cross references have been supplied between related
                    documents printed in the volume, and numerous citations to papers not published open the way to a
                    more detailed study of 
                        Tennessee
                    's territorial period. The editor has also supplied a list of missing official
                    letters known to have passed  between territorial and federal
                    officials, and an excellent thirty-five-page index.
            Volumes V and VI of the series, to be published during the next year, will be devoted to 
                        Mississippi
                     Territory.
            NELLIE ARMSTRONG.
         
         
            
               The Tall Sycamore of the 
                            Wabash
                        : Daniel Wolsey Voorhees. By Leonard S. Kenworthy. Bruce Humphries, Inc., 
                        Boston
                    , 1936. Pp. 155, $2.00.
            So far as this reviewer is aware, this is the first biography of Daniel W. Voorhees. It is a brief
                    work and apparently does not pretend to be definitive. It is an interpretive biography which views
                    Voorhees "primarily as a national figure representing the Northern Democrats of the Civil
                    War period and the Middle Western Democrats of the post-Civil War era. Of secondary importance is
                    his part as a state and local character." His active service in the cause of middle western
                    Democracy extended from the days of Stephen A. Douglas to those of William Jennings Bryan. With a
                    few brief interruptions, Voorhees served as a member of the National House of Representatives and of
                    the Senate from 1861 until 1897.
            Thus Voorhees' political career was projected in a time of no little strife and dissension.
                    Almost alone of those who fought the battles of the Northern Democracy in the troublous times of the
                    sixties and seventies, he fought on into another generation. Starting out in the practice of law, he
                    soon gained a reputation far beyond the bounds of his home state, Indiana. His powerful oratory was
                    to carry him through many a battle in court rooms, in political campaigns and in legislative halls.
                    The Voorhees constituency in Western Indiana, as a rule, apparently approved his position on the
                    issues of the Civil-War and post-war periods. Like not a few other Democrats of the North, he was
                    somewhat sympathetic towards the South, but was hardly an ultra. There is some question as to
                    whether he was a member of the Knights of the Golden Circle. Voorhees himself denied it. Mr.
                    Kenworthy's conclusion is that, "if he was a member, it is certain that he did not
                    actively participate in its activities or help formulate its policies."
            On the money question during the post-war period, Voorhees  took
                    the position the agrarians of the West. Through the seventies and eighties he kept hammering on the
                    necessity of wider circulation of money and savagely attacked the eastern business elements and hard
                    money advocates. In 1893, however, he took a position on the repeal of the Silver Purchase Act which
                    seems to have been a reversal of his former stand. As chairman of the Senate Finance Committee, he
                    served as 
                        Cleveland
                    's right-hand man in carrying repeal. His stand at this time seems to have been
                    due to 
                        Cleveland
                    's aggressive leadership, and to the changing sentiment in Indiana which state
                    had given 
                        Cleveland
                     its electoral vote in 1892.
            Like most of his Democratic colleagues, Voorhees favored a low tariff, and lashed out frequently at
                    the "privileged interests" which benefited from high protection. But as the years
                    went by and Indiana became more highly industrialized, he seems to have been influenced somewhat by
                    this development and at times spoke of a tariff which "collects the necessary revenue [and]
                    expands protection, with discriminating justice to American manufacturers …"
            The author's conclusion is that Voorhees was not a great man and that he was defensive
                    rather than aggressive—a champion of existing causes rather than initiating new
                    movements.
            This biography, though brief, is a worth-while contribution. The style as a rule is clear and the
                    book is readable. Not many errors and inaccuracies were found. Seldom is a book wholly free from
                    typographical errors, a few of which were observed (pp. 34, 78, 102, 133). Some will probably
                    question the statement that Tilden "virtually defaulted the election at the most critical
                    moment by not pressing his claims actively enough" (p. 94), and ask what he could have done
                    to change the result. It is not correct to say that the Resumption Act of 1875 "definitely
                    excluded paper as a medium of exchange after 1879" (p. 103).
            The references are to be found at the end of the book. This makes it less convenient for those who
                    wish to note the sources. In the bibliography, it is stated where letters concerning Voorhees may be
                    found, but apparently his correspondence was used but little. This reviewer would like to see either
                    Mr. Kenworthy or some one else continue this study of Voorhees and some day bring out a more
                    complete work.
            WILLARD H. SMITH.
         
         
         
            
               Excavation of the Nowlin Mound, a study prepared by Glenn A. Black, with notes on
                    pottery by James B. Griffin and Fredric R. Matson, Jr., was recently published by the Indiana
                    Historical Bureau. The mound is located in 
                        Dearborn
                     county on the farm of Mr. Guy Nowlin. The work of excavating was done during 1934 and
                    1935. The publication is Indiana History Bulletin (July, 1936), Vol. XIII, No. 7.
                    It contains one hunddred forty-two pages in which there is a history of the mound within the
                    historic period, an account of the work of excavating, a summary, and pictures of the mound and
                    various artificats. There are also a number of illustrations showing cross-sections of the mound and
                    short statements by Griffin and Matson relative to the pottery found during the process of
                    excavation. The Bulletin is furnished free to members of the Indiana Historical
                    Society, to libraries, and to historical agencies in Indiana. To others the price of this issue is
                    twenty-five cents.
            The 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society has issued a small, special Bulletin under the
                    title, Copying Manuscripts, which presents the "Rules for Copying
                    Manuscripts" that have been worked out by the 
                        Minnesota
                     Society. Every historical worker whose duty it is to copy manuscripts meets with many
                    problems. Whether one makes such copies only occasionally or spends much time at such tasks, he will
                    find many valubale suggestions in this little publication. It may be obtained from Dr. Theodore C.
                    Blegen, Superintendent of the 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society, 
                        St. Paul
                    .
            The 
                        Minnesota
                     Historical Society has also published a Bibliography of 
                            Minnesota
                         Territorial Documents. This paper-bound work was compiled by Esther Jerabek
                    and may be obtained from the Superintendent of the Society at $1.25 per copy. In this
                    very carefully prepared book is an analytical bibliography of the official documents of 
                        Minnesota
                     Territory (1849–1858), and there is a complete index. Such a work will
                    certainly prove a valuable guide to students of local history.
            In the September issue of the National Geographic Magazine, the leading article is
                    devoted to Indiana. Under the title "Indiana Journey," Fredrick Simpich writes on
                    the Hoosier  state. The article carries thirty-two illustrations
                    and a map. In fact, thirty-five of the fifty-three pages of the article are occupied by pictures,
                    leaving eighteen for the double-page map and reading matter. The article is interesting and
                    informing. It is enlivened throughout by touches of history and tradition. Since the whole state is
                    covered, many places of importance and interest are scarcely noticed. Strange to say, Indiana
                    University is mentioned only incidentally. The article has its strong points along with the weak.
                    The pictures are the redeeming feature, but these seem to have been chosen without any guiding
                    principle, unless on the basis of a general notion that thirty-five pages of illustrations from
                    pretty well over the state would be sure to measure up to a high standard.
            The author of the following informing communication felt an urge to write it and send it in after
                    reading the article, "The Unique Little Town of 
                        New Harmony
                    ," by Julie Le Clerk 
                        Knox
                    , which appeared in our March issue. In the accompanying note, some errors, found in the
                    article mentioned, are kindly corrected.
            
                    Benjamin Harrison is said to have applied the slogan, "No Mean City," which 
                            St. Paul
                         used of Tarsus, to 
                            Indianapolis
                        . Everyone thinks of 
                            Washington
                        , D.C., when we say "The City of Magnificient Distances." Other
                        titles, descriptive or otherwise have been given to well known places such as "The
                        Windy City," "The 
                            Athens
                         of Indiana," or "The Hub." In a recent article in the
                            Indiana Magazine of History, a writer used the title, "The Unique
                        Little Town of 
                            New Harmony
                        ," and it is a fairly descriptive name, for 
                            New Harmony
                         is different from other small cities or towns not only in Indiana but elsewhere.
                    To begin with our streets were originally named for some building of industry such as Church
                        Street, Brewery Street, and the like. As conditions have changed the old names have been
                        continued, though the buildings or industries have vanished. We have Tavern Street but our
                        tavern is now on Church Street. There is no church on Church Street, though there are several
                        churches located on other streets. Our Granary Street still runs past the old Rappite Granary,
                        but the building is now called the Old Fort. This "Fort" has never been
                        attacked. In fact the defense was directed not at the Indians but at white men from other
                        settlements who occasionally went on marauding expeditions to other more thrifty settlements and
                        plundered them. In this case the provision for defense was all that was needed, the robbers
                        looked at those loop holes and went on to attack some other place with more safety.
                    Returning to the names of streets, Tavern Street ends at West Street and Maple Avenue begins
                        there though the two names apply to  one continuous street
                        without a turn. West Street was the boundary of the village in Rappite times but now there is
                        another street west of it. East Street has several streets east of it and South Street is far
                        north of the southern boundary of the town. Then there is a Steam Mill Street, though the mill
                        is now run by electricity and the power for the dynamo of the city owned electric plant is a
                        modern Diesel engine. Though the Rappites had a brewery that produced most excellent beer, the
                        Owen community enterprise closed that at once. The name of the street is still Brewery Street
                        but there has been no brewery on it for more than a hundred years.
                    In one thing 
                            New Harmony
                         is not different from many historically important places. That is a visitor
                        sometimes drops in for a short visit with notebook and pencil and tries to create the impression
                        that he is an important personage. If 
                            New Harmony
                         wishes to be known in connection with such visitors, the natives will just have to
                        drop other things and show them about. One such visitor, whom many of our readers may know,
                        drove rapidly into town one afternoon, stopped in front of the Library, called to a man on the
                        side walk, announced his name and added: "I have only an hour to give to 
                            New Harmony
                         and you had better get busy and show me what you have." He did buzz around
                        for about an hour and then invited some of the busy persons he had met to write him about 
                            New Harmony
                         as he might have a story about the town soon.
                    This attitude is in marked contrast to that of a substantial citizen of 
                            Terre Haute
                         who having made several trips to Europe and one around the world, declared that he
                        had seen all the famous places in Europe, but had never seen one place as small as 
                            New Harmony
                         that has so many things of interest. Needless to say, he made several trips to 
                            New Harmony
                         and did not limit himself to thirty minutes in any of them. At one time in the
                        summer of 1935, there were present in the town three sets of research students, two from
                        different universities in 
                            New York
                         City, and the third (with secretary and chauffeur) from the state of 
                            Washington
                        . None of them came for even so short a visit as over night, but each group stayed
                        for days, even weeks. Many visitors, who know something of the place 
                            New Harmony
                         occupies, plan their vacations to enjoy and study the place. They often come and
                        get acquainted with the quiet, hospitable folks who now live in this "Unique Little
                        Town." One thing that happens to all places and people who are in the public
                        consideration is that writers set down what they think may be startling or surprising even if
                        the facts do not bear out the statements.
                    Where the old Rappite mansion once stood, there is a brick building which was erected after the
                        burning of the Rappite house. It is now owned and occupied by Mrs. Monical whose husband was the
                        able and popular superintendent of the 
                            New Harmony
                         schools for several years. This building has a heritage from the old Rapp Home of
                        library, school, social and intellectual life for many years after the Rappites had gone from 
                            New Harmony
                        .
                    In the same square with the building just mentioned stands the Old Owen Laboratory, now the home
                        of Mrs. Aline Owen Neal and her  brother Dale Owen. It may
                        be interesting to some of the readers of the Magazine to know that this
                        building was designed by the architect who made the plans for the Smithsonian Institution in 
                            Washington
                        , and that it was intended to display a wide variety of arches, spires, domes, and
                        other devices that had been developed in the building art. It is also of importance to know that
                        the bequest of James Smithson for the 
                            Washington
                         building was not used for several years as the terms of the will were not specific.
                        When Robert Dale Owen was a member of the National House, he interested himself in the bequest
                        and worked out a plan for its application which resulted in the Smithsonian Institution.
                    THOMAS W. RECORDS.
                    Note: Some errors found their way into the article by Miss 
                            Knox
                        . The birthplace of Rapp's experiment was not at 
                            New Harmony
                        , the original "Harmonie" having been established in 
                            Pennsylvania
                        . The doorway of the west entrance to the 
                            New Harmony
                         school building was not originally in the "Old Steeple House,"
                        but in the fine church which the Rappites erected sometime after the building of
                        "Steeple House." The building which still stands on the site of the old
                        Rappite Mansion is not of "grey stone" but of brick. Dale Owen lives with his
                        sister, Mrs. Aline Owen Neal, in the old Owen Laboratory building. Two descendants of Prof.
                        Richard Owen live on a farm near 
                            New Harmony
                        , both of whom are graduates of Indiana University. The paintings displayed in the
                        Library of the Workingmen's Institute are mentioned as "so-called"
                        originals. It is true that they are not originals, and also that Dr. Murphy, the donor, did not
                        claim them to be such, nor have the people of 
                            New Harmony
                         ever regarded them as originals.
                    T. W. R.
                
         
         
         
            Editor's Pages
            BEGINNINGS OF A POSSIBLE AUTOBIOGRAPHY
            By a Man of Common Clay
            III
            Mention of the Prince William Pike, that was constructed along the line of the long-vanished
                    plank-road from Delphi to 
                        Frankfort
                    , was made earlier.1 This highway crosses the Monon Railway almost
                    in front of the house where I was born. It happened that the track for the new railway2 was laid down on the west line of our farm exactly when that section of the gravel-road
                    passing by the place was under construction. Few things that occurred during my younger years
                    affected me more profoundly than did the first sight of an actual locomotive with several cars
                    attached following immediately behind the gang of laborers who spiked the iron rails to the ties.
            A lane ran northward next to the west line from the barnyard to the woods-pasture. It seemed
                    unbelievable that a railroad should come along and swallow up that narrow line of traffic which I
                    unconsciously regarded as a permanent feature of the general scheme of things. For years, horses,
                    cattle, hogs, sheep, and geese had passed back and forth over that short, private road. Great
                    quantities of firewood had come down that lane to be unloaded a short distance south of the
                        water-trough.3 Much cordwood and many loads of saw-logs were brought over
                    that connecting link to be taken to market. By far the most startling event connected with that
                    lane, which became a sacrifice to progress in 1881, was a runaway. This happened one summer day in
                    1880. The hired man, a slow-thinking but honest fellow, driving in the more heavily timbered part of
                    the twenty-acre tract upset the wagon, throwing himself, my brother, then under three years of age,
                    and 
                  
                     1 The first installment of this "Possible
                            Autobiography" was published in the March issue and the second in the June issue of
                            this year. The fourth installment will follow in December. For the previous mention of the
                            Prince William gravel road, see footnote No. 6, p. 85, in the March Issue.
                  
                     2 This was, of course, the new Monon line from 
                                Indianapolis
                             to 
                                Chicago
                             which crossed the old L. N. A. & C. at Monon (Bradford).
                  
                     3 Our woodyard was to the left of the path from house to stable. So
                            much wood chopping was done on this space through the years that we always called it the
                            chippile. On a great many Saturdays, when my father went to town, my task was to rick, or
                            cord-up, stove-wood on this space. This was not a bad job when the pile of wood was not too
                            big. I was never required to do too much work, and I am confident that I did not, but I was
                            frequently asked to rick stove-wood, or dig potatoes, when the job was large enough to last
                            a week or a month. I then evolved the notion, which I still believe to be sound, that a boy
                            should never be set to work at a task of long duration unless allotted a definite portion
                            possible of completion in a given period shorter than the time at his disposal.
               
                     me to the ground. The frightened horses ran to the lane and on
                    to the barnyard gate, leaving the various parts of the wagon scattered along the way. Each of us
                    escaped injury, but the excitement aroused by the event was long remembered by every member of the
                    family.
            The gravel for the pike through our neighborhood was obtained from a pit on the Ethan Shafer farm to
                    the northeast. Colonel McGreevy, the contractor, persuaded my father to permit the teamsters to pass
                    back and forth through our farm. This furnished me with my first wage-paying job. For more than
                    three weeks, I watched the gap at the far corner of our twenty-acre woods-pasture. The Colonel was a
                    big, gruff, kindly man whose friendliness toward me was valued as highly as the wage of fifty cents
                    per day, which is saying a great deal. I spent my earnings for a new brown suit with long trousers
                    and a vest. I don't know what would be thought of an outfit like it today, but it more than
                    satisfied me as a Sunday suit for a year.
            As a farmer boy, it was a long time before I earned so much money again, but, as I look back over
                    those years, I am sure that I received enough. I was well cared for in every way, though toys were
                    few and luxuries uncommon. The compensation was that when unusual and longed for things came my way,
                    they could be fully appreciated and enjoyed. The same was true of my brothers and sisters. As for
                    spending-money, an occasional nickel, dime, or quarter made me feel rich. It was not till the coming
                    of the gayer nineties, when I was a young man "on my own," that the children on
                    the farms of the community in which I was born caught the idea that life was somehow too tame and
                    barren in the country and developed a somewhat dissatisfied and restless spirit. This change came
                    before the motor-car period in the last stretch of the "horse and buggy days."
            The most substantial farmers that I knew in my boyhood days lived north or south of the flat, wet
                    land area on which our home was located, and they were men who had been old enough to take advantage
                    of the prosperity of the Civil War years and those immediately following. These men had the best
                    farms and the best buildings. Furthermore their farms had better natural drainage, supplemented by
                    ditching, something extremely important in the seventies and eighties. The outstanding farms were
                    those owned by the Thompson, Maxwell,  Widener, Riffey, Shafer,
                    Duff, Wingard, Ledman, Dern, and Gross families.4 Younger men who started in the
                    midst of the War or new-comers of the later period occasionally succeeded, but it was extremely
                    difficult for a farmer who had not made a good start before 1873 to make headway during the
                    remainder of the century. The most successful of the newcomers started as a farm-hand about 1880. He
                    was a quiet, persistent, unmarried man about thirty years of age who hailed from 
                        New Jersey
                    . He had a strong aversion to spending money foolishly. He married a widow with a farm,
                    and managed both well. He was so prudent and thrifty that in good times and bad he forged steadily
                    ahead, bought more land and gradually added to his wealth as long as he lived.
            The general area between Sugar Creek and Bridge Creek, the level country that so powerfully
                    influenced the lives of the people who dwelt thereon, remained in a pioneer stage longer than the
                    more easily drained districts on the immediate north or south. There was more land to be cleared,
                    greater uncertainty as to crops, less pretentious homes and furniture, no carriages, little travel
                    to any place outside, and in general a less pretentious manner of living. As to religion, the
                    families of this retarded frontier district all seemed to have either decidedly more of it or
                    decidedly less than the families of adjacent communities. Likewise, they were sure to be either more
                    ardent advocates of temperance or more confirmed consumers of hard liquor than were those who lived
                    in the then more choice areas on either side.5
            
            In our home, we had one newspaper from the first, and after a few years, my father subscribed for the
                    other paper published in Delphi. Thus we had what was not very common, not only the Democratic but
                    the Republican organ from the County Seat. The Delphi Times was for a number of
                    years 
                  
                     4 Frank Thompson and William Maxwell each owned fine farms, a mile
                            south of us, that lay side by side and sloped southward to Sugar Creek. David Widener,
                            Andrew Riffey, John B. Duff, Ethan Shafer, John Wingard and James Ledman held a line of
                            farms to the northward that extended eastward up Bridge Creek from the Delphi-
                                Frankfort
                             road in the order named. Ezra Dern, Christian Gross and Charles Gross were
                            owners of the land that lay along the Delphi road northward from the Widener farm. Bridge
                            Creek turned and passed northward out of the Widener farm, running northwest through the
                            Dern and Christian Gross farms and crossing the Delphi road near the Dern home. There was,
                            and is yet, a road (now State Road No. 18) running east and west just north of the Widener
                            farm and crossing the Delphi road. The Arnott and Foley families lived near the cross-roads
                            and immediately east of the Delphi road. These families owned two or three acres each. Mr.
                            Arnott ran a blacksmith-shop and Mr. Foley a cooper-shop. Each family produced astonishing
                            quantities of vegetables and fruits each year, and each family held up about as well as
                            their neighbors. The only Democrats among these outstanding families were the Wideners,
                            Riffeys and Ledmans. The new-comer from New Jensey, mentioned later, was also a Democrat.
                  
                     5 The flat, wet area extended from the Bridge Creek lands to the Sugar
                            Creek lands. The sluggish run, Little Sugar Creek (now tiled and covered), had no bluffs and
                            the slopes on either side are so gentle as to be hardly perceptible.
               
                     edited and published by A. B. Crampton who died only recently
                    in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . The Delphi Journal, the rival organ, was founded by James B. Scott,
                    who edited it for a generation. After a short interval, when the paper passed through the hands of
                    different owners, it was purchased by Landis and Ricketts. This was in 1887. At about the same time
                    the McManus brothers came from a small town in White County to purchase the Delphi Times. "Johnny and Jakey," as they were dubbed, did not achieve much
                    success and were soon succeeded by Rheno M. Isherwood, now of 
                        Lafayette
                    . The associate of Mr. Rickets on the Journal was Charles B. Landis, a
                    brother of Kenesaw M. and Frederick Landis. Charles B. served in the national House of
                    Representatives for six terms. As editor of the Journal, he ran a column, headed
                    "The Old Man on the Corner," which became widely popular. We never failed to read
                    this part of the weekly Journal.
               6
            
            We had some books in our home though not many. Occasionally others were added. I think I read every
                    one of whatever description. The first complete volume of any pretensions that I read was an
                    unabridged copy of Robinson Crusoe. This I received as a prize for the largest
                    number of headmarks in my class in the spring of 1881. I need not say that the story made a strong
                    impression on me, and the scenes are still fresh in my memory from that first reading. It was our
                    teacher of the next year, Miss Alice M. Crowder, who brought each week a copy of the Youth's Companion for the use of the pupils. She allowed us to read it in our
                    leisure time, provided we got along well with our regular lessons. I han hardly exaggerate the
                    enjoyment which this little weekly magazine brought to me. I read every part of each issue including
                    the advertisements. The special numbers, such as those gotten out at Thanksgiving and Christmas
                    time, were welcomed with unusual pleasure.
            I was very early attracted to history and politics.7 I read any history or
                    biography that I could lay hands on whatever the quality, but I did not find many of either to read
                    until after I left high school. Party history and party activities interested me, but the chances to
                    learn much except from observation, 
                  
                     6 The column always carried a caricature of Mr. Landis. He was made to
                            appear older and furnished with spectacles, but anyone who had ever seen the editor readily
                            recognized the picture. The drawing was from the pen of Harry Milroy, a local artist.
                  
                     7 One day I learned a practical lesson from the box of matches, always
                            kept on the clock-shelf beyond the reach of children. My father, with the match-box in hand,
                            pointed to the green revenue stamps on the box and said: "These are what make the
                            matches cost so much". He then explained what he meant. This must have been in 1875
                            or 1876.
               
                     were slim indeed. I heard a great deal that related to
                    Republicans, Democrats and Greenbackers, but it was not easy to understand what it was all about.
                    The country school that I attended was well filled with children from Republican families. The only
                    land-owning families that were Democrats, besides our own, had no children of school age during my
                    period in the district school. In campaign years, the playground banter was pretty much one-sided.
                    The "bloody-shirt" was still being rather vigorously waved in the late seventies
                    and early eighties and children from Republican families caught the spirit. I was occasionally
                    called a "Rebel," an affront not to be accepted in silence. The offsetting epithet
                    was "Black Republican." Fortunately the word-battles of campaign years lasted only
                    for the few weeks preceding elections.
            I remember distinctly the shouts for "Hayes and Wheeler" and the counter shouts for
                    "Tilden and Hendricks" in 1876. This was my first year in school and, while I
                    attended no rallies, I did see some township contingents pass the schoolyard on the way to Delphi to
                    participate in Republican or Democratic parades. I also recall something of the tenseness of the
                    situation after the seeming victory of the Democrats was disputed. The controversy growing out of
                    the complicated situations in several of the "Carpet-bag" states went on for weeks
                    and months and there was plenty of time for the statement and restatement of strong charges on both
                    sides. The dissatisfaction did not die out after the inauguration of Hayes, but the cry of fraud was
                    reiterated time after time during the ensuing four years. This was not just newspaper propaganda,
                    but it was common sentiment and a common topic of conversation among the rank and file of those
                    citizens who were Democrats. In fact, Democrats, so it seems to me now, made a poorer showing than
                    was necessary in 1880, because they spent so much time bewailing the "injustice"
                    which they claimed to have suffered when Hayes was counted in back in 1877.
            The campaign of 1880 did not impress me much. I recall the frequent use of the number 329 which related to James A. Garfield's alleged connection with the Credit Mobilier scandal. General Winfield Scott 
                        Hancock
                    , the Democratic candidate, honored especially for his part at 
                        Gettysburg
                    , was a handsome man. The Republicans played him up as a fastidious dresser—a
                    man who even wore a corset. When I became bold enough  to call
                    out "329" to the Republican batter-up in a game of round-town one day, he yelled
                    back, "Yes, that's the number of 
                        Hancock
                    's corset." Everybody laughed at my expense, and I was completely
                    stumped. Indeed I am still at sea in regard to the truth or falsity of that important campaign
                    charge, having never done any research to prove or disprove it. As I write this paragraph a great
                    presidential contest is on, and I have a strong feeling that some of the supposedly profound charges
                    that are being sent over the airways have a smaller intrinsic significance than did the allegations
                    against 
                        Hancock
                     that my school-fellow repeated on the playground in 1880.
            The campaigns of my boyhood were fascinating and colorful. The pagentry introduced in 1840 marked
                    presidential contests for a half century. People too young to have participated in or observed some
                    of the rallies of the period that ended in 1888 missed something that was unique and splendid in
                    American life. In 1880 the usual elaborate parades were staged. In one of the 
                        Carroll County
                     rallies of that year, which brought large numbers of Democrats from every one of the
                    thirteen townships to Delphi, the procession was truly a grand affair. The townships tried to outdo
                    each other in furnishing large and attractive companies. I was not unprejudiced, but I am still
                    inclined to believe that my judgment was correct when I pronounced the Deer Creek Township
                    horse-back company to be the star exhibit in that parade. The men who rode in that outstanding
                    company laid well their plans. Each agreed to wear a white shirt and no coat. Each bought a strip of
                    blue glazed-muslin to be worn over the right shoulder and looped at the waistline on the left side.
                    To make the scheme complete, each bought enough red flannel for a pair of trousers, which his wife
                    cut and made. My father rode a fine looking bay horse and every other man in the group sat astride
                    the best horse from his farm. This company, each member garbed in red, white and blue, added a
                    feature to the parade that provided both color and tone.
            In 1884 when James G. Elaine of 
                        Maine
                     ran against Grover 
                        Cleveland
                     of 
                        New York
                    , I joined a boys' company that was gotten up in Deer Creek Township for the
                    great Democratic parade of that year in Delphi. We had no uniforms, but both the voters'
                    company and the youths' contingent carried straight hickory limbs, each cut from growing
                    trees or bushes with a cluster of leaves left at the top. The bared part of the  limb was about as long and as large as a broom-handle. Each marcher was
                    given some red, white and blue ribbons which he tied among the leaves at the top of his hickory
                    pole. The future voters were given a place in the line just behind their elders. I did not half way
                    appreciate the long march and envied those who lined the streets with nothing to do but watch the
                    parade go by.
            After the election was over the first news indicated a Democratic triumph, Democrats announced
                    jollification meetings for various towns. But, when the time for the scheduled meetings arrived, the
                    claims ran the other way. Not many ventured out and the few disciples of Jefferson and Jackson who
                    gathered around the bonfires were forlorn looking groups with doleful faces. By Saturday night
                    Republicans were celebrating. A little later, however, the final word came that 
                        Cleveland
                     had carried 
                        New York
                     by a slender margin, and Democrats were able to hold some belated jubilees.
            While I was taking my high school course in Delphi, some mature men, with whom I was much associated
                    and whose friendship I valued highly, converted me temporarily to a belief in the soundness of the
                    protective tariff policy. I kept fairly quiet about my views at home, and looked forward to the
                    campaign of 1888 with some misgivings. I was sent forth into the wide world with a diploma, real
                    sheepskin at that, from the Delphi High School at the beginning of June. In the fall of that year, I
                    took a course in the Union Business College of 
                        Lafayette
                    . By September 3, when I entered this school, I was again an advocate of free trade and
                    a champion of Grover 
                        Cleveland
                     against Benjamin Harrison. The party emblems were the eagle and the rooster. After
                    Democrats adopted the use of red bandana handkerchiefs as a compliment to Allen G. Thurman, 
                        Cleveland
                    's running mate, Republicans resorted to small silk flags which they carried as
                    ornamental handkerchiefs. This gave rise to a sort of verse which ran like this: 
                        Oh! the Eagle and the Flag, Down the Rooster and the Rag.
                    
            
            This couplet irritated me and did far more to cause me to return to the Democratic fold than all that
                    I read or heard about the tariff issue. However, I did read the local papers and did do what I could
                    get no one else of my age to do—sit patiently and listen attentively to long speeches.
                    One that I heard all the way through, one night in 
                        Lafayette
                    , was a  speech by John P. Irish,8 to which he gave the title "From the Cradle to the Grave." It lasted fully
                    two and one-half hours, the speaker laboring with some humor and enthusiasm to show that tariff
                    duties appeared in the price of the baby's first garment and pursued him to old age and
                    death, the last duties being paid out of his estate on the materials that entered into his shroud
                    and coffin. After hearing this speech, I bet a quarter on the election with a young student by the
                    name of John Gillian. Each of us placed twenty-five cents in the hands of a mutual friend. The
                    election was close, but the Republicans won and I never saw my money again.
            During the campaign, I attended the great Harrison rally at Battle Ground. Blaine was the speaker. I
                    saw the white-haired political veteran, but as I could not get close enough to catch his words, I
                    wandered over the grounds. I watched a man work the three-shell game. I saw one man after another
                    place a $5 or $10 bet. Nearly every one lost, but it looked like a sure thing
                    and the supply of suckers seemed to be inexhaustable. After a little time, I noticed that the crook
                    who manipulated the game, merely shifted the position of one of the three half-shells after
                    shuffling them around and showing his possible victim and the crowd about him exactly which shell
                    covered the pea. All he needed to do was to move his hand quickly and deftly, at the exact moment
                    when bettor and witnesses shifted their eyes from the shells to the piece of paper money selected to
                    be laid down, and change the position of one. Having solved the riddle, I soon found myself speaking
                    impulsively to the latest victim, just as the shell on which he had placed his bet was lifted to
                    show that there was nothing under it, telling him to keep his eye on the shells all the time if he
                    wished to win. The clever shark scowled at me and asked why I did not bet myself, if I knew so much.
                    Nevertheless, I had his "number" and very soon he shifted to another part of the
                    grounds.
            The crowd at the Battle Ground ralley was said to number 30,000, and there was a great torch-light
                    procession in 
                        Lafayette
                     at night. In rallies of that year much was done in imitation of the Whig performances
                    of 1840, when General William Henry Harrison ran against President Van Buren. 
                  
                     8 Mr. Irish was a political orator of 
                                California
                             who sometimes made campaign speeches in distant states. During this campaign of
                            1888, I heard a Republican speech by Anna Dickinson who appeared in 
                                Lafayette
                            . She seemed to me to be more bitttrly partizan than any of the big men whose
                            speeches I heard in the campaigns of that period.
               
                     The hard cider was absent but the log-cabin reappeared and live
                    raccoons were to be seen clambering over the cabins that were conveyed through the streets as
                    features of the parades. Democrats invented a clever slogan which created much merriment. I saw in a
                    parade, a small man representing Benjamin Harrison. He was wearing a silk hat so much too large for
                    him that it completely covered his head and rested on his shoulders. The legend thereon read:
                    "GRANDFATHER'S HAT WON'T FIT BENNY." This feature of the
                    campaign, which was widely used over the country, was matched by one equally clever and effective
                    which marked Republican rallies. 
                        Cleveland
                    , who loved to fish, was said to have indulged in his favorite pastime on a Memorial
                    day. A heavy man with a thick neck, dressed to represent him and holding pole and line with a fish
                    on the hook, sat on a platform which was drawn along in the midst of Republican processions. The
                    words printed large on each side of the platform were simply: "DECORATION DAY."
            In those old campaigns, there were always groups of girls in white who appeared in one or more of the
                    township contingents of this period. These were transported along the streets in improvised hacks
                    covered with leaves and bunting. Always there was one girl, an unmistakable blonde, with hair
                    hanging loosely about her shoulders, who sat on a small throne and wore a crown. She was the
                    "Goddess of Liberty." The bodies constructed for the Republican wagons were made
                    of ash timber and the decorating leaves were from ash trees. The Democrats used hickory timber and
                    hickory leaves. Real ingenuity was exercised by those who prepared and finished off these ash and
                    hickory wagons. Drawn as they always were, by four white, bay or black horses, these really handsome
                    conveyances filled with happy, flag-waving young women attracted the attention of all. The climax
                    was reached in 
                        Carroll County
                     when Cornelius Dern, who always owned a threshing outfit, adding
                    "cow-catcher" and "cab" to a new traction engine, substituted
                    this for the four horses. As this "locomotive," handsomely trimmed in the colors
                    of the flag, steamed along drawing after it a load of bright-faced girls in the Republican parade of
                    1884, the bell was rung and the whistle  blown at each street
                    intersection. No feature of a campaign rally ever received more general commendation.9
            
            The spirit of youth has never resisted a call to war, and that spirit affected Democratic and
                    Republican families alike in 1861. The wide-spread and persistent "waving of the
                    bloody-shirt" in post-war campaigns caused Democrats to labor under a handicap. In 
                        Carroll County
                    , there was an unending stream of argument flowing from both sides relative to the
                    fighting records of the two parties. Democrats learned to run a veteran of the Civil War for County
                    Auditor or Township Trustee as often as did Republicans. This helped some to overcome the
                    disadvantage. Another competition that was very effective in nullifying the effects of the War issue
                    on the balloting was the appearance of groups of veterans in the campaign processions. Democratic
                    veterans donned their blue uniforms and marched in Democratic parades, just as Republican veterans
                    always marched in Republican parades. In the Delphi rallies, the numbers were so nearly even that
                    observers who counted the veterans in line could seldom be certain as to which side was in the lead.
                    This tangible evidence that both parties had stood the test of patriotism in a great crisis helped
                    to eliminate antagonism and made it possible to give more heed to new problems.
            
               
                  9 I feel quite sure that Mr. Dern's traction engine was used in a
                        rally of 1884, though I have no record of it. It was, I think, the first use of a traction
                        engine for such a purpose in 
                            Carroll County
                        , but I could be in error in regard to this point.
            
         
         
         
            CONTRIBUTORS TO THIS ISSUE: George C. Hitt is a well-known citizen of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Daniel W. Snepp is in charge of the history department and also assistant principle of
                    the Benjamin Bosse High School in 
                        Evansville
                    . James A. Woodburn of 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, and 
                  Ann Arbor, Michigan
                was for many years professor of
                    American history in Indiana University. Frank W. Fowle of 
                        Chicago
                     is a consulting engineer and president of the Western Society of Engineers. Miss Sarah
                    S. Pratt of 
                        Indianapolis
                     is the author of Episcopal Bishops of Indiana, and recently
                    contributed an article to this Magazine. Miss 
                        Virginia
                     Cox lives in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . She was once a student of Miss Donnan, about whom she writes. Amos W. Butler was
                    Secretary of the Indiana Board of State Charities for many years. Miss Nellie C. Armstrong is editor
                    of publications in the Indiana Historical Bureau. Willard H. Smith, professor of history in 
                        Goshen
                     College, is a graduate student in Indiana University.
         
         
         
            Reprints
            Reprints of any paper published in the Indiana Magazine of History may be obtained
                    by any contributor. Estimates of the cost will be furnished on request and an order placed for as
                    many reprints of any article as may be desired by the author. Requests should be made to the Editor before the issue containing the article of which reprints are desired is
                    published.
         
         
            Wanted
            We hope that some of our readers can aid us to obtain the desired publications listed below. The
                    Library of Indiana University and other libraries in different parts of the country are in need of
                    copies of the issues mentioned in order to complete files. For older and rarer numbers, prices above
                    the regular rates will be paid. Persons possessing any of the desired publications may write to the
                        Indiana Magazine of History.
            
            
               Indiana Magazine of History. We have a serious need of more copies of the following
                    numbers, especially those marked with asterisks:
            
               ∗Volume I, 3, 4 (Sept., Dec., 1905).
               Volume II, 2, 4 (June, Dec., 1906).
               Volume III, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1907).
               Volume IV, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1908).
               Volume V, 2, 3, 4 (June, Sept., Dec., 1999).
               Volume VI, 1, 3, 4 (March, Sept., Dec., 1910).
               Volume VII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1911).
               ∗ Volume VIII, 1, 2, 3, 4 (March, June, Sept., Dec., 1912).
               Volume IX, 1 (March, 1913).
               ∗ Volume X, 1 (March, 1914).
               ∗ Volume XVII, 4 (Dec., 1921).
               Volume XVIII, 1 (March, 1922).
               Volume XXII, 1 (March, 1926).
            
            Full sets of the Magazine can rarely be supplied to libraries or individuals who
                    may desire to purchase. A complete file from 1920 forward can be supplied at fifty cents a copy, or
                    two dollars per volume, unbound; from 1914 to 1919, the price is one dollar per copy, or four
                    dollars per volume. Issues from 1905–1913, when they can be supplied at all, will be sold
                    at one and a half dollars per number.
            
            The Indiana University Library needs the following publications to complete its files. Anyone having
                    any of these publications will confer a great favor by writing to W.A. Alexander, Librarian of
                    Indiana University, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
            
                    The Indiana Alumnus
                
            
               Volume VI, 14 (Dec. 25, 1926). Wanted 3 copies.
               Volume VI, 16 (Jan. 16, 1927). Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
               The Indiana University Catalogue. The University needs the following to fill out
                    the files.
            
               1832–1833. Wanted 3 copies.
               1833–1834. Wanted 3 copies.
               1834–1835. Wanted 3 copies.
               1836–1837. Wanted 2 copies.
               1837–1838. Wanted 2 copies.
               1839–1840. Wanted 2 copies.
               1840–1841. Wanted 2 copies.
               1843–1844. Wanted 2 copies.
               1849–1850. Wanted 2 copies.
               1853–1854. Wanted 2 copies.
            
            
               The Indiana School Journal. Wanted Volume XXXVII (1892) and Volume XXXVIII (1893).
            
               Lincoln Lore. Wanted copies of Numbers 3–8, 10–11, 13,
                    15–17, 22, 26–29, 34 and 35 of 1929; Numbers 53 and 60 of 1930.
            
               Indiana Law Journal. Wanted copies of: Vol. I, No. 1; Vol. II, Nos. 2, 3, 4, 5, 6;
                    Vol. III, Nos. 1, 5, 6. The desired copies were published at 
                        Indianapolis
                     during 1898–1899.
            In 1930, The Indiana Magazine of History published a General
                    Index for the first twenty-five volumes (1905–1929). The Index was compiled by
                    Dorothy Riker of the Indiana Historical Bureau. Every library and every individual possessing a file
                    of the Magazine for the period covered by the General Index, or
                    for any considerable portion of the period, should have a copy. It is still possible to obtain
                    copies at $1.00 each. Send orders to the Indiana Magazine of History, 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana.
         
         
         
         
         
         
            INDIANA GENEALOGY
            Introduction
            By KATE MILNER RABB
            
            There are those who profess to believe that the study of genealogy is enjoyed by its followers only
                    because it is a glorification of the family and an enjoyable feeding of the "life
                    lie." It must be admitted that there are those who make Ancient Mariners of themselves,
                    reciting endlessly the achievements of their ancestors. However, there is a steadily increasing
                    number of those who find in genealogy a delightful introduction to the study of local history. Many
                    who long considered history a very dry and uninteresting subject have been led to discover its
                    fascinations by following the trail of their ancestors and learning of their participation in events
                    connected with the early settlements and later emigration to the west. And, it may be said here that
                    they have done something for the historians, too, since sometimes family documents, long shut away,
                    have cast a light upon some dark pages of history. Certainly old letters and diaries that have been
                    brought forth by the genealogical student have done much towards completing the picture of the
                    social life of various periods and in throwing light on the attitude of mind of the average
                    individual toward certain questions at various periods of our country's development.
            In Indiana, the increasing interest in state and local history, since public attention was called to
                    it through the wide and enthusiastic celebration of the state centennial in 1916, has gone hand in
                    hand with an increasing interest in the study of genealogy, fostered, of course, by our many
                    flourishing patriotic societies. This was manifested in the publication of a weekly column, in the 
                        Indianapolis
                    
                    Star—"Indiana Genealogy," edited by Mrs. Harvey
                    Morris, of 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, from August 1, 1926 to January 29, 1933, its object, the tracing of family
                    lines and assisting in the study of pioneer history.
            Students of genealogy in Indiana and other states have long realized the valuable assistance given in
                    the department of Indiana Archives of the state library under the direction of Miss Esther U.
                    McNitt, and more recently in the genealogy department in the new State Library and Historical
                    Building, with Miss Anna Poucher at its head. This room was used as  the meeting place for a session of the Indiana History Conference two
                    years ago, whose subject was genealogical research. Dr. Christopher B. Coleman, Director of the
                    Indiana Historical Bureau, suggested that because of this rapidly increasing interest in the
                    subject, a session of the conference be devoted to it. The speaker was George S. Utley, librarian of
                    the Newberry Library, 
                        Chicago
                    , and, because of the enthusiastic interest of the conference, a session of the 1935
                    meeting was devoted to it, the speaker being Mrs. Jouett Taylor Cannon of 
                  Frankfort, Kentucky
               .
            At this time, Dr. Coleman called the attention of the Indiana historical Society to the growing
                    demand for a special genealogical publication. Mrs. Morris presented the subject to the Society of
                    Indiana Pioneers. A committee appointed from both organizations to sponsor the publication of
                    genealogical material decided, after Dr. Coleman's consultation with Prof. William 0.
                    Lynch, editor of the Indiana Magazine of History, that a Section for this purpose
                    should be opened in the quarterly, with Mrs. Martha Tucker Morris acting as editor. The Section
                    opens in this issue of the Magazine. It deserves a large following.
         
         
         
            Harrod Deeds in the Clark Grant
            SUSAN W. ATKINS
            
            The records of the first transfers of the allotments of lands in the Clark Grant, which were given to
                    the officers and soldiers who accompanied Col. George Rogers Clark in his famous adventure in 1779,
                    are important to genealogists, whether amateur or professional.
            As the lots were divided into sections far removed from each other, consisting of 500 acres of
                    uncleared land, in each section, some devoid of access to water, it can be readily understood that a
                    recipient of several of these lots could not possibly have any use for more than one. He would
                    therefore dispose of the others, as 500 acres were all that five men could put under cultivation in
                    a lifetime under pioneer methods without slave labor.
            Speculators in land were active at this time and much can be seen, by the deeds of record, to have
                    been purchased by such persons. William Hayden English, who lived within the confines of the
                    original grant, had opportunity to study these records and asserts that few of the original grantees
                    occupied their allotments of land. In this matter, a record of lands which went to Captain William
                    Harrod may be of interest as he was senior captain with Col. George Rogers Clark, and his company,
                    stationed at Wheeling Fort in 1779, formed a nucleus of the force which accompanied Clark. The
                    regiments were organized and equipped from Wheeling Fort. They left the Fort and proceeded by water
                    to the falls of the 
                        Ohio
                    .
            In 
                        Louisville
                    , in April of 1789, William Harrod received for his service as captain in this movement,
                    from the allotment which was made at this time to the officers and soldiers who served under Clark,
                    six sections of land in the Clark Grant. These were listed as numbers 91, 99, 164, 243, 261 and 264.
                    On August 31, 1789, the records show that a deed was executed to Captain William Harrod for the
                    remainder of his allotment, or a balance of 243 acres of land. Each captain received 3234 acres of
                    land, each section containing 500 acres, unless otherwise indicated. These sections were scattered
                    over the grant, and no one joined another in the allotment made to the same person.
            Captain Harrod had the first survey of this land made in the fall of 1788 and other surveys were made
                    in the spring of  1789. The first deed executed, transferring
                    land from his portion, was made in 1792 to his brother, Captain James Harrod of Harrodsburg. Captain
                    William, in 1792, deeded to Captain James 1000 acres of the grant, in exchange for a tract, to him
                    conveyed by Captain James, of 1000 acres of land on the Green River in 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            It is possible that this was the next to the last transaction made by Captain James Harrod, who made
                    his will in 
                        Washington
                    , Mason County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , in 1792. It is reasonable to suppose, as both transactions occurred in Mason County,
                    that Captain James Harrod was either coming from or going to the home of his brother, Captain
                    William Harrod, on Locust Creek, in Mason County, in the area now known as Bracken County, when he
                    made his will. He is said to have proceeded to the Big Sandy River, which is east of Bracken, after
                    making the will, and to have been completely lost. Nothing was ever heard of him from this time. The
                    1000 acres of land were probably never in the possession of his heirs, however, as no deeds are
                    recorded by them. In 1797 Captain William Harrod sued the heirs of Captain James Harrod to recover
                    this portion of the grant.
            In the early spring of 1793, Amelia Stevens, the wife of Captain William Harrod, died in their home
                    at Ten Mile on Muddy Creek, 
                  Washington County, Pennsylvania
               . Two months later, Captain William
                    Harrod made a second transfer from his allotment, preparatory to closing his affairs in 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , and removing to Bracken County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , which was then a part of Mason County. His sister, Rachel Newland, and his son,
                    William, Jr., were living in Mason County at this time. His daughter Rachel was married to Isaac
                    Meranda and was also living in Mason County. His son Samuel was married and living at Ten Mile, 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . He sold his land and followed his father to 
                        Kentucky
                    .
            On May 18, 1793, is recorded in Cumberland Township, 
                  Washington
                            County, Pennsylvania
               , a deed by
                    which William Harrod, farmer, of Cumberland Township, transferred to James Hughes of the same, for
                    100 pounds of lawful money of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , 500 acres, part of the said William Harrod's claim of land in the Clark
                    Grant. It would be tedious to give the bounds defined by trees and bushes, no longer to be found.
                    The land is in part, however, bounded by James 
                        Shelby
                    's line, and Leonard Helm's survey, no. 679, crossing two branches  "supposed to be waters of White
                    River," and to Martin Caney's survey No. 263. This deed is witnessed by
                    Caleb Cowpland, John Kennedy, and Joseph Van Meter. It was recorded on September 17, at the request
                    of James Hughes. The records of 
                  Washington County, Pennsylvania
               , further give the information that
                    this tract of land contained 500 acres. It is not defined by number.
            The third transfer of Clark Grant Lands by Captain Harrod was recorded (Deed Book 1, page 17, October
                    1, 1794) in 
                  Washington, Washington County, Pennsylvania
               , as follows: 
                        Captain William Harrod to Richard Swan.
                        This Indenture made the 1 day of October, 1794
                        Between William Harrod, yeoman, of 
                                Washington
                             Co. State of 
                                Pennsylvania
                             of the one part and Richard Swan of the other part
                        Witnesseth—that the said William Harrod, for the sum of five shillings to him in
                            hand paid, "as well as for natural love and affections I have for Richard
                            Swan"—The receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged—Have granted
                            … to Richard Swan, a certain tract of land lying on the north side of the 
                                Ohio
                             River….
                        Bounded by the north side of Leonard Helm's survey, No. 147, Abram Killers Survey,
                            Crossing Muddy Fork of Silver Creek, and containing 234 Acres….
                        The said tract with its appertenances thereunto belonging.
                        Witnessed by—Caleb Cowpland James Hughes
                    
            
            By this deed Captain Harrod gave to Richard Swan a half of one lot for the "love and
                    affection" which he had for him. It is possible that this tract is where Swansville,
                    Indiana, is now located. If so, Swansville was born of "love and affection," for
                    the son of a friend and companion of Captain William Harrod, who was killed on a journey with him.
                    This deed was recorded in 
                  Washington County, Pennsylvania
               , at the request of Richard Swan on
                    Sept. 17, 1796.
            By the records of Bracken County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , it is shown (Book C, page 103, Bracken County Court) that on the thirteenth day of
                    June, 1799, William Harrod of Bracken County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , deeded to John Mannon of Mason County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , for 50 pounds, 250 acres of the grant, known as "GO". This was
                    bounded by the east corner of Richard McCarthy's survey—No.
                    "GO", thence crossing Silver Creek and thence to Wither's line. This deed
                    was witnessed by Joshua Sanders, John Shockley, Sam Martin and William Critchfield.
            Also in Bracken County, on April 1, 1801, which would be about the time of the death of Captain
                    Harrod, he transferred  to John Mannon in concert with Ann
                    Harrod, the widow and executor of the estate of James Harrod, for the sum of 500 dollars, a tract in
                    Hardin County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , which was the 1000 acres that he had previously in 1792, transferred to Captain James
                    Harrod in exchange for 1000 acres in the grant.
            Captain William Harrod died in Mason, now Bracken County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , at the home of his son William Harrod, Jr., on October 9, 1801. The records of the
                    settlement of his estate, as well as all other records, personal or otherwise of Captain William
                    Harrod, which should be in Bracken County, 
                        Kentucky
                    , have disappeared. This even includes the records of the Sharon Baptist Church where he
                    is buried. However, it is possible, through indirect records (those of his sister Rachel Newland),
                    and through the deeds in 
                        Clark County
                    , Indiana, to find some small information relating to his affairs. There is no record of
                    a will, although there probably was one. The executor of his estate was his son-in-law, Isaac
                    Meranda, who was the husband of his daughter Rachel. It has been learned from the signatures on
                    deeds in 
                        Clark County
                    , that Captain William Harrod left three sons, Samuel, William Jr., and James. He also
                    left the daughter, Rachel Meranda, wife of Isaac Meranda.
            James Harrod died about 1814, evidently leaving no heir, as no person signed as such any legal paper
                    after he, himself, ceased to sign such papers in that year. Samuel Harrod also died about this time,
                    but his sons, William and Henry, and his daughters, Catherine Taffe, Sarah Bottorf, and Mary Reed,
                    with their husbands, signed as his heirs. William Harrod continued to sign deeds as the heir of
                    Samuel Harrod, his father, until 1848.
         
         
         
            Queries and Answers
            
               Attention: Queries should be typed to avoid mistakes in names and dates. They must
                    be signed and the address of sender given. All queries should be brief and definite. Answers for
                    publication will be greatly appreciated. In connection with any answer, the date of the Magazine and the number of the query answered should be given. Traditions must be
                    verified. Bible records are requested for publication. Mail answers to Martha Tucker Morris, 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana.
            Query I: FUNK FAMILY
            Jacob Funk died in Harrison Co., Ind.; buried on the east bank of Indian Creek, where it flows into
                    the 
                        Ohio
                    , about one mile west of New Amsterdam. On the west side of Indian Creek are the graves
                    of Henry and Daniel Funk. Their graves were marked by the Piankashaw Chapter D.A.R. of 
                        New Albany
                    , many years ago, as Revolutionary soldiers. Information is wanted in regard to Jacob
                    Funk and his relationship to Henry and Daniel Funk. Facts about the early ancestry of the Funk
                    family are also desired.
            Answer to Query 1, by H. H. Purkhizer of 
                        Mitchell
                    , Ind. who is a descendant of Jacob Funk: Jacob Funk was the son of Henry Funk of
                    Strausburg, Va. Henry had a land warrant signed by Patrick Henry, Governor of 
                        Virginia
                    , in 1771. This was in return for services rendered. Henry Funk's will, made
                    October 20, 1789, and probated February 25, 1790, does not mention a wife. Children of Henry: Jacob,
                    Henry, Elizabeth Caty, Barbara and Mary. A grand-daughter is mentioned, Caty Springer, infant child
                    of Henry's daughter Mary. This Caty Springer was married at age of 20 to Robert Bowmer in 
                        Virginia
                     and moved to Breckinridge Co., Ky., in 1805. Elizabeth Caty, daughter of Henry Funk,
                    married Frederick Fetree, probably in 
                        Virginia
                    . Her sister Barbara married a Mr. Ament and settled in Hardin Co., Ky. Jacob and Henry
                    Funk came to Indiana about 1808. Jacob was born on Oct. 13, 1773; died Feb. 19, 1819, in Harrison
                    Co., Ind.; buried on the east bank of Indian Creek. Jacob's brother Henry and his son
                    Daniel are buried on the west bank of the Creek. The children of Henry Funk and his wife Sarah were:
                    Henry, Joseph, John, Peter, Elizabeth, Isaac, and Daniel. Jacob Funk had at least two children:
                    Sarah, born in 1785, married John Purkhizer; Isaac, born 1789, left a son who now lives at New
                    Amsterdam in 
                        Harrison County
                    .
            
            Query 2: STEVENS FAMILY
            John Stevens is said to have been a son of Adam Stevens, an early settler in the Valley of 
                        Virginia
                    , who lived south of Winchester. Adam was about the age of George 
                        Washington
                    , and was associated with him, perhaps in Indian wars, before the Revolutionary War.
                    Wanted information about this Stevens family.
            Answer to Query 2, by Mrs. H.C. Atkins, 1321 No. Meridian St., 
                        Indianapolis
                    : Adam Stevens was a brother of Alexander Stevens. The will of the latter (Will Book,
                    No. 3, Frederick Co., Va. Jan. 12, 1768) devises to his brothers, Adam and Robert Stevens, and to
                    his two sisters (not named). Adam Stevens is probably the Gen. Adam Stevens who was very prominent
                    in the wars with the French and Indians. He raised a company and commanded under George 
                        Washington
                     when the advance was made into 
                        Pennsylvania
                     after the troubles of 1754. He was not given a command in the Revolutionary War,
                    possibly because he was born and educated in 
                        England
                     and therefore regarded as not to be depended on in the War for Independence. The
                    Stevens brothers were Adam, Robert, John, and Alexander. There were also the two sisters already
                    mentioned. Alexander Stevens devised property in an agent's hands in 
                  London, England
               . The will
                    of John Stevens (Stephens) is filed in 
                        Orange
                     Co., Va. (Will Book, 6, p. 365, dated Oct. 9, 1819); probated Aug. 28, 1826. Children
                    mentioned: James, John, William, Nancy Duncan, Elizabeth Burress, and Sally Lindsay. William was
                    given land in 
                        Kentucky
                    . Elizabeth was the wife of Thomas Burress (Will Book No. 7, p. 104). The will of
                    William Stevens (Stephens) was probated Feb. 25, 1852 (Book No. 11, p. 405, 
                        Orange
                     Co., Va.); divided the estate between five heirs: Mrs. Powell, Mrs. Graves, Mrs.
                    Goodwin, Frederick Stephens, and William J. Stephens. An old Diary and Entry Book, in the Powell
                    family at 
                  Fredericksburg, Virginia
                contains the following: 
                        William Stevens married, February 12, 1801, Margaret Mills, the daughter of Nathanuel Mills
                            and — Thompson. Three children are mentioned: Julia Thomas, born Aug. 9, 1804,
                            married James L. Powell; Margaret Stevens, born June 11, 1811, married Isaac Eeves; Eliz
                            [beth], born [date not given], married Dr. John M. Goodwin.
                    
            
            Any information concerning Amelia Stevens, who married Captain William Harrod or Harwood, in Ayr Tp.,
                    Cumberland Co., Pa., in 1765, will be appreciated.
            
            Query 3: HOWARD AND ASHBROOK FAMILIES
            Wanted data relative to the ancestry of Rezin Howard; married Esther, widow of John Ashbrook. Who was
                    the father of Rezin Howard? Where are Rezin Howard and Esther (his wife) buried? Have found no
                    record of service in Revolutionary War for Howard, but he is not listed as a Tory or Royalist. He
                    was an Englishman; lived in Frederick County, 
                        Maryland
                    ; a member of All Saints Parish; served in French and Indian War in the Company of Col.
                    William Luckett, 
                        Maryland
                    , 1759 (
                  
                            Maryland
                         Historical Magazine, IX). Rezin Howard and his wife Esther were large
                    landowners in Hampshire County, 
                        Virginia
                    , Gibbuns Run, Gore District. Their children were: (1) Samuel Howard, born 1770,
                    Hampshire County, 
                        Virginia
                    , who married Mary (Polly) Biggin (Have complete family line); buried at Montpelier, 
                        Blackford
                     Co., Ind.; lived to be 92. (2) John Howard, born, 1772; married Sarah— (Have
                    a meager sketch of this family).
            John Ashbrook, first husband of Esther was the fourth in descent from Antelope John Ashbrook of 
                        New Jersey
                    . The children of John and Esther Ashbrook were: Aaron; Mary, married William Blackburn;
                    Jemima, married Col. Jacob Baker (Killed by a fall from his horse). Descendents of Aaron Ashbrook,
                    Mary Blackburn or Jemima Baker may know the maiden name of Esther, their mother. Persons having this
                    information will please write to Martha Tucker Morris, 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana. The query was sent in by Ida Helen McCarty, Pennville, Jay Co., Ind., State
                    Regent D.A.C., who will appreciate information relating to either the Howard or Ashbrook families.
            Query 4: CHEEZEN FAMILY
            James Cheezen married Mary Mitchell and lived near West Union, Parke Co., Ind. (Have line
                    established). Wanted the data when this family settled in 
                        Parke County
                    . Information will be appreciated. 
                        Wish
                     to become a member of the Society of Indiana Pioneers.—O.L.W.
            Query 5: EDDINGFIELD FAMILY
            John J. Eddingfield lived near New Ross, Walnut Tp., 
                        Montgomery
                     Co., Ind.; born in 1815 in 
                        Butler
                     Co., O.; married Sarah Williamson, born in same County in 
                        Ohio
                    ; both buried in Union Church Cemetery, about two miles west of New Ross. Want copies of
                    the inscriptions on the tombstones,  and wish to know about the
                    parents of Sarah Williamson. Did men of either the Eddingfield or the Williamson line see service in
                    the Revolutionary War?—M. McM.
            Query 6: LEWIS FAMILY
            William, or Myron William, Lewis married Sarah Antrim; came from 
                        Chillicothe
                    , O. to 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Clark Co., Ind., sometime between 1816 and 1820 (family tradition). Lewis was
                    Registrar of the Land Office in 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , 1828–1832; served in the War of 1812; was known as Major Lewis; buried in
                    the old graveyard, Mulberry St., 
                        Jeffersonville
                    . Wanted proof that Myron William Lewis and wife (Sarah Antrim) were living in Clark
                    Co., Ind., before 1820.—E.W.
            Query 7: BRECKINRIDGE FAMILY
            Francis Breckinridge married Sallie Reid; came to Lawrence Co., Ind., probably from Ky., about 1825;
                    daughter, Martha Reid Breckinridge, married William Smith, son of Peter Smith of Lawrence Co., Ind.,
                    Nov. 14, 1850, in that county. Names of parents and earlier ancestry of Francis Breckinridge
                    wanted.—W.W.S.
            Query 8: GOODSON FAMILY
            John W. Goodson was married in Crawford Co., Ind., Mar. 26, 1867, to Elizabeth (Faith) Peterson, a
                    widow; one son, Jesse Goodson, born June 7, 1869, near Miffin, Union Tp., Crawford Co. John W.
                    Goodson served in the Civil War; died after 1875. Date of birth of John W. Goodson, names of
                    parents, and place of burial are wanted in compiling records of this family. Also want information
                    as to Revolutionary War service in this Goodson line.—I.G.
            Query 9: FISLAR FAMILY
            Roderick Fislar was born in Indiana (place not known) in 1815; married Mary Trofford, 1837; wife,
                    born 1820, Posey Co., Ind.; returned to that County after marriage; both died in Posey Co., Ind.,
                    Roderick in 1857, his wife in 1912. Mary Trofford was the daughter of Edmund Trofford; her
                    mother's name was Nancy Applegate, a daughter of Jacob and Mary Applegate, who moved from 
                        Virginia
                     to Mason Co., Ky. It is the names of the parents of Roderick Fislar that I desire to
                    know. I have evidence that he was a grandson of John Fislar, a Revolutionary soldier buried in Clark
                    Co., Ind., but I have not learned his father's name.—L.E.F.
         
         
         
            Bible Records
            ROBERTS FAMILY BIBLE RECORD
            
            The Roberts Family Bible was presented to the 
                        Washington County
                     Historical Society, 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana in July, 1925, by Mrs. Rose Cornwell Oden, a grand-daughter of James Q.
                    Roberts, nephew of Robert R. Roberts, first bishop of the Methodist Church of Indiana. The Bible was
                    published by B. Waugh & T. Mason, for the Methodist Episcopal Church at the Conference
                    Office, 14 Crosby Street, 
                        New York
                    , 1832, and presented to James Q. Roberts, by his uncle, Bishop Roberts, in the year
                    1833. James Q. Roberts was one of the three nephews that accompanied the family of the Bishop to
                    Indiana from 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in November, 1819, to make their home here.
            
                    Family Record as written by James Q. Roberts:
                    James Q. Roberts was born 21 January, A.D. 1804. Mary Marshill was born 23 December A.D. 1809. We
                        were married the 25th February 1830.
                    Transcript of the Records of my Father's Family. Father and Mothers Ages and Marriage.
                    John Roberts was born 13 Jany A.D. 1763 (brother of Bishop Roberts) Mary Shannon was born 6 Jany
                        A.D. 1769—and were married 12th September A.D. 1786.
                    Transcribed by James Roberts—May 2nd A.D. 1840. 
                            Fayette
                         County State of 
                            Pennsylvania
                        .
                    Father died 20th January 1812 Mother died 6th March 1832 Thomas died 11th October 1832 Saml died
                        15th August 1833
                    
                  Children
                  Thomas Roberts was born 30th May A.D. 1787
                  Sarah Roberts was born 18th August 1788
                  Samuel Roberts was born 16th February 1790
                  Elizabeth Roberts was born 11th June 1793
                  Robert Roberts was born 19th January 1795
                  Charlotte Roberts was born 19th January 1795
                  Mary Roberts was born 23rd August 1796
                  John Roberts was born 24th June 1798
                  Shannon Roberts was born 3rd February 1800
                  Louis Roberts was born 13th September 1802
                  James Roberts was born 21st January 1804
                  Rebecca Roberts was born 2nd May 1805
                  George Roberts was born 9th December 1806—Died Dec. 27, 1841
                  
                  Esther Roberts was born 17th April 1808
                  2nd Thomas Roberts was born 12th February 1810
                  Martha Roberts was born 16 September 1812.
               
                
            FROM THE GRAHAM FAMILY BIBLE RECORDS.
            Records copied by Mrs. Sylvan R. Mouser, 616 East 47th St., 
                        Indianapolis
                    , owner of the Bible, who has also a complete copy of a diary kept by John Kennedy
                    Graham, Sr., from 1831–1841.
            
                    
                  Births
                  John Kennedy Graham was born in 
                                Bedford
                             County, Pa. January 30, 1783 [Member of the first Constitutional Convention,
                            Indiana, 1816; from Clark county to Floyd; county-surveyor, laid out 
                                New Albany
                            , Ind.]
                  Mary A. Huff [Graham] was born in Senaca Co., N.Y., July 1796.
               
                    
                  Children
                  Ferdinand Graham born Oct. 5, 1811
                  Meander Graham born Jan. 22, 1813
                  Eliza Graham born June 16, 1814
                  Louisa Graham born May 5, 1816
                  Angeline Graham born Nov. 9, 1818
                  Amanda Graham born March 21, 1820
                  Emma Graham born Aug. 21, 1824
                  Julia Graham born Jan. 1, 1826
                  Lucinda Evelyn Graham born May 27, 1827
                  Albert Graham born March 27, 1829
                  John Kennedy Graham, Jr. born May 26, 1831
                  Caroline Graham born Aug. 3, 1834
                  Maria T. Graham born Sept. 2, 1836
                  James 
                                Madison
                             Graham born Aug. 28, 1838
               
                    
                  Deaths
                  Elizabeth Weach Graham died August 1822 [Veach, Wetch, Weach]
                  Albert Graham died June 1832 [Diary says June 10, 1842]
                  John Kennedy Graham, Jr. died March 20, 1851
                  Amanda Graham Mann died April 14, 1857
                  Ferdinand Graham died Dec. 20, 1871
                  Angeline Graham died May 5, 1872
                  Mary A. Huff Graham died May 5, 1873
                  Meander Graham died Jan. 12, 1838
                  Louisa Graham Guest died Nov. 28, 1895
                  Lucinda Graham Shipman died April 25, 1898
                  Caroline Graham Belton died June 22, 1906
                  Emma Graham died Sept. 14, 1808
                  Julia Ann Graham Very died March 20, 1851 [from tombstone inscription]
               
                
            
            John Kennedy Graham and most of his family, who died in early years, are buried in Scott's
                    graveyard near his old home, the Evergreen Farm, near Mt. Tabor, 
                        New Albany
                    . Inscriptions: 
                        Sacred to the memory of John K. Graham—a native of 
                                Bedford
                             County, Pa., born January 30, 1783 and died in great peace August 21, 1841.
                        Mary Ann—Our Mother—wife of John K. Graham—died May 5,
                            1873—in the 77th year of her age.—"My Saviour is with me
                            now."
                    
            
            BENJAMIN KING FAMILY RECORDS.
            Compiled by Mrs. C.P. Lesh of 
                        Indianapolis
                    ; typed record "King Family of 
                        Virginia
                     and of Harrison Co. and 
                        Washington
                     Co., Indiana;" filed in State Library and in 
                        Washington County
                     Historical Society archives.
            
                    Benjamin King, youngest son of Thomas and Sarah King was born in Louisa County, 
                            Virginia
                        , on Sept. 11, 1767. He was married in Culpepper Co., Va., on Nov. 4, 1894, to
                        Martha, daughter of George and Deborah Haywood. She was born Aug. 7, 1774, and died in 1820, in
                        Harrison Co., Ind. George and Deborah Haywood, in 1795, bought 309 acres of land adjoining that
                        of Thomas King, which later became the property of Benjamin King.
                    Oct. 30, 1802, Benjamin and Martha King sold to George 
                            Washington
                         Truehard 222 and one-half acres lying on both sides of Pamunky River [in 
                            Virginia
                        ] and on Oct. 2, 1802, George and Deborah Haywood [sold] their plantation, adjoining
                        the King farm, to James Michie. Early in 1803, both families removed to Jefferson Co., Ky.,
                        where they appear on tax returns, filed at Historical Society at 
                            Frankfort
                        , Ky. On July 8, 1799, Governor of the state of 
                            Virginia
                        , gave a bond to Benjamin King permitting him to preach and marry. Benjamin King
                        bought 110 acres of land on Chenoweth Creek, in 1806, Jefferson Co., Ky. Benjamin King and
                        family moved to Posey township, Harrison Co., Indiana, in 1808, and June 2, 1813, sold balance
                        of plantation in Louisa County, Va., "2/12 of land wherein Thomas King lived and
                        died," to his brother Thomas King, Jr. (Deed filed at Louisa, Va.)
                    The Haywoods died in 
                            Jefferson County
                        , Ky., as they do not appear in tax lists after 1814. Martha Haywood King died in
                        Indiana in 1820, and Mar. 23, 1820, her husband set aside land for a Methodist Church and
                        Cemetery, naming John Hancock, Samuel 
                            Hancock
                        , Thomas Poison, John Royse and Eli Wood as trustees (Book D, page 93, Corydon,
                        Ind.)
                    Benjamin King married Elizabeth Wood, June 13, 1822, and after death of this wife, married
                        Rebecca Ramsey, Aug. 1, 1842. He was one of the pioneer ministers of the state and endured many
                        privations and hardships, especially during the war of 1812. The land he bought in different
                        surveys both in Harrison and 
                            Washington
                         county was around the present town of 
                            Fredericksburg
                        , Ind., on Blue River. He built one of the first grist mills in
                        the state, on the west side of Blue River below 
                        
                            Fredericksburg
                        . The Methodist Church and Cemetery are on the east side of the river about one and
                        a half miles below 
                            Fredericksburg
                        . Benjamin King died in February, 1852. His will, filed in Book
                        "C", pp. 13 and 14, at Corydon, Ind., is as follows:
                    "In the name of God, Amen, I, Benjamin King—of the county of Harrison and
                        State of Indiana, being of sound mind and memory, blessed be God, on the seventeenth day of
                        March, 1848, make this my last will and testament in the following manner, to wit: first, I give
                        my soul to God and my body to the dust. I desire to be laid in woolen by the side of my first
                        wife, in one half chain of ground reserved for a burying ground forever: Secondly, each and
                        every one of my legatees, have received their full portion, as will be hereafter named, to wit:
                        Elisha B. King; Zilla Poison; George T. King; Martha 
                            Hancock
                        ; Nancy P. Poison; James King; McKendrie King; Robert King; Deborah Cooper and
                        William King or his heirs, all of whom have received their portion, claims, or allowances of my
                        estate both personal and real. The meeting house and lot known as King's Meeting house,
                        I will to the Methodist Episcopal Church of Indiana—to the trustees of the same, viz:
                        Benjamin King, Jr., David W. Sticker, and John Roberts as trustees in trust for the same, and
                        their successors ever. Thirdly, I will, bequeath, and deliver to Benjamin King, Jr. all of my
                        personal and Real Estate—Bay mare, according to the first date. For which
                        consideration he is to support me comfortably and creditably during my natural life for which,
                        he and his heirs are to have all my estate forever.
                    "In testimony where-unto, I have set my hand and seal this year and date first above
                        written and in the presence of William Hancock and John A. Cromer. (Signed) Benjamin
                        King."
                    "Still further, I bequeath and give unto William King's daughter, the only
                        child he left at his death, five dollars, this third day of Nov. 1849." Probated Feb.
                        13, 1852.
                    The old mill run by water power was sold by Benjamin King, Jr. and George King to a Mr. Green,
                        who tore it down and moved it to 
                            Fredericksburg
                        .
                    
                  
                     Children of Benjamin and Martha (Haywood) King
                  Elisha Budd King, born Nov. 9, 1795. He mar. (1) July 30, 1821 —Rebecca
                            Rawlings. They had one daughter—Sarah Jane, born Sept. 1822, when the mother
                            died. Elisha mar. (2) Sarah Butlerton—she died Jan. 1, 1835, leaving five
                            children. Elisha mar. (3) Ann Miller. They had six children.
                  Zilla King was born Jan. 7, 1797. She was married to Thomas Poison, Nov. 30, 1817, in
                            Harrison county, Indiana. They had 11 children.
                  George Thomas King, born Louisa County, Va. Aug. 20, 1798. He mar. (1) Sallie Graham Jan.
                            25, 1824. She died Feb. 14, 1857. They had 6 children. George Thomas King, mar. (2) Jane Ann
                            Haines, Nov. 30, 1837—no children. He mar. (3) Juley E. Bates—four
                            children by this marriage.
                  
                  William King, born Feb. 22, 1800, mar. July 6, 1840 Mary Jane Dodds. He mar. (2) Margaret
                            Dodds Apr. 21, 1847. They had one daughter, mentioned in will of Benjamin King.
                  Martha Haywood King, born Sept. 7, 1801, in Louisa County, Va., mar. John Hancock of N. C.
                            Jan. 27, 1820. They had 7 children.
                  James King, born 
                                Jefferson County
                            , Ky., May 23, 1803. He mar. Sept. 29, 1825, Tabitha Sherwood, of 
                                Washington County
                            , Ind. They had 11 children. James King and his wife are buried in
                                Crown Hill Cemetery, 
                                Indianapolis
                            .
                  Benjamin King, Jr. born May 16, 1806, in Jefferson Co. Ky., mar. Feb. 13, 1832 Lydia
                            Sherwood, of 
                                Washington
                             Co., Ind. They had nine children.
                  Nancy Price King, born Mar. 8, 1808, mar. Benjamin Poison, Sept. 23, 1826. They had 3
                            children. Nancy died at Paoli, Ind. in 1840.
                  Wesley King born Feb. 20, 1810, died in 1841.
                  McKindree King, born May 1, 1812 Harrison Co. Ind. mar. Oct. 1, 1833 Mary Cole. Eight
                            children. McKindree King died Feb. 12, 1849.
                  Robert King, born Harrison Co. Ind. Sept. 24, 1813, mar. Elizabeth Jolly, Dec. 29, 1835.
                            Twelve children. Robert King died Aug. 21, 1877, Hardinsburg, Ind.
                  Deborah King, born May 15, 1816, Harrison Co., Ind. She mar. Samuel Cooper, Aug. 18, 1835.
                            Nine children.
                  Mary King, born Mar. 9, 1818; died Mar. 26, 1818.
               
                    [Note—Records of the families of the children of Benjamin King and his parents Thomas
                        and Sarah King of 
                            Virginia
                         are given in his fine Genealogy of the King Family of 
                                Virginia
                             and Indiana—M. T. M., Editor.]
                
         
         
         
            Marriage Records
            TIPPECANOE COUNTY, INDIANA From Book I, 1826–1830
            Copied by MYEA ESABEY, 
                        Indianapolis
                    , Ind.
            
               
                  Abbreviations:
                  LA—Lawful Age
                  
                  AJ—Associate Judge
               
               
                  
                  TC—
                                Tippecanoe
                             Co.
                  DD—Doctor of Divinity
               
               
                  
                  JP—Justice of Peace
                  ECC—Elder Christian Church
               
               
                  
                  MG—Minister of Gospel
                  VDM—Visiting Deacon of Ministry
               
            
            
               Treuary, William, to Rebecca 
                            Franklin
                        , LA., TC., license Nov. 1, 1826; married by Levi Thornton, JP., Nov. 2, 1826, page
                        1.
               Baum, George S., to Jane Menary, TC, Nov. 6, 1826; by Levi Thornton, JP., Nov. 9, 1826, p. 1.
               McFarland, Moses, to Elisabeth Cuppy, TC, Jan. 31, 1827; by Abel Janney, JP, Feb. 4, 1827, p.
                        1.
               Fautharp, Henry, to Eliza Black (dau. of Samuel Black) Feb. 13, 1827; TC; by Levi Thornton,
                        JP, Feb. 14, 1827, p. 2.
               Roberts, William, to Miranda Corbin, TC, LA, Feb. 22, 1827; by Wm. Bush, JP, Feb. 26,1827, p.
                        3.
               Jones, Henry F., to Keziah Talbert, TC, LA, Mar. 12, 1827, by John Provolt, AJ, March 15,
                        1827, p. 3.
               Hicks, Aron, to Ruth Price, TC, Affidavit by Aron Merriman, Mar. 3, 1827 by Reuben Kelsey, JP,
                        Mar. 29,1827, p. 4.
               Jamison, Charles, to Nancy Hickman, TC, LA, Mar. 21,1827; by Reuben Kelsey, JP, Mar. 29, 1827,
                        p. 4.
               Ives, Asa O., to Polly Sargent, TC, LA (James Suit, bondsman), Apr. 2, 1827 by Reuben Kelsey,
                        JP, Apr. 2,1827, p. 5.
               Wylie, Augustus (son of James), to Rebecca Farmer (dau. of Jesse), TC, June 7, 1827; by
                        Stephen Kennedy, JP, June 11, 1827, p. 5.
               Ely, Henry, to Mary Isley (dau. of Daniel), TC, June 7, 1828; by Levi Thornton JP, June 10,
                        1827, p. 6.
               Tucker, Mason, to Luann Hoff, TC, LA, June 13, 1827; by Abel Janney, JP, June 14,1827, p. 6.
               Stansberry, Levi, to Delila Millicye, TC (Jesse Fouse, bondsman), by Reuben Kelsey, June 21,
                        1827, p. 7.
               Bengaman, Henry, to Elizabeth McCombs, TC, LA, June 21, 1827; by Levi Thornton, JP, June 26,
                        1827, p. 7.
               West, Jesse, to Margaret Provolt, TC, LA, July 7, 1827; by Stephen Kennedy, JP, July 19, 1827,
                        p. 8.
               Wade, James, to Katharine Bailey, TC, LA, July 31, 1827; by Levi Thornton, JP, Aug. 2, 1827,
                        p. 8.
               Clark, Hiram, to Harriot W. Smith, LA, TC, Aug. 16, 1827; by Abel Janney, JP, Aug. 19,1827, p.
                        9.
               Jones, Michael, to Polly Kinser, TC, LA, Sept. 5, 1827; by Abel Janney, JP, Sept. 6,1827, p.
                        9.
               Mikesel, John, to Sally Lucus, TC, LA, Sept. 15,1827; by Levi Thornton, JP, Sept. 23, 1827, p.
                        10.
               Key, Martin, to Sarah Logan, TC, LA, Oct. 8, 1827; by Aaron Payne, MG, Oct. 9, 1827, p. 10.
               Waymire, Frederick (son of Andrew), to Frances C. Cochran (dau. of  David H.), TC, Oct. 8,1827; by Stephen Kennedy, JP, Oct. 11, 1827,
                        p. 11.
               Franklin, Preston, to Hannah Foust, TC, LA, Oct. 13, 1827, by Stephen Kennedy, JP, Oct
                        … 1827, p. 11.
               Shevalia, John B., to Susana Isaacs, TC (Reuben Kelsey, bondsman), Oct. 13, 1827; by Abel
                        Janney, JP, Nov. 4, 1827, p. 12.
               Marsh, Lemuel G., to Unice Dagett, TC (Reuben Kelsey, bondsman), Oct. 24, 1827; Reuben Kelsey,
                        JP, Nov. 1, 1827, p. 12.
               Freel, Elisha, to Elizabeth Tolover (dau. of John), TC, Dec. 15, 1827; by Reuben Kelsey, JP,
                        Dec. 18, 1827, p. 13.
               Bowen, Jesse, to Mary Poor, TC, LA, Dec. 29, 1827; by Reuben Kelsey, JP, Dec. 30, 1827, p. 13.
               Freel, Amos, to Elizabeth Reynolds (dau. of Philip), TC, Jan. 23, 1828; by Reuben Kelsey, Jan.
                        27,1828, p. 14.
               Thornton, Isaac, to Patsy R. Reynolds, TC, LA, Jan. 23, 1828; by Reuben Kelsey, Jan. 27,1828,
                        p. 14.
               Gray, John, to Sarah Blackburn, TC, LA, Feb. 2, 1828; by Solomon Crose, MG, Feb. 5, 1828, p.
                        15.
               Sargent, James, to Susana Johnston, TC, LA, Feb. 5, 1828; by Levi Thornton, JP, Feb. 5, 1828,
                        p. 15.
               Bales, Solomon, to Sarah Haynes, TC, LA, Feb. 17, 1828; by Solomon Crose, MG, Feb. 21, 1828,
                        p. 16.
               Richey, Robert, to Elizabeth Guinn (James F. Brown, bondsman), TC, Feb. 20,1828; by John
                        Provolt, AJ, Feb. 21,1828, p. 16.
               Harram, Lyman, to Ellenor (Elenor) Baker (dau. of Daniel), TC, Mar. 15, 1828; by Wm. Bush, JP,
                        Mar. 16, 1828, p. 17.
               Schoonover, Nathaniel, L.A., to Margaret Schoonover (dau. of Abraham Schoonover), TC, Mar. 15,
                        1828; by Abel Janney, JP, Mar. 20, 1828, p. 17.
               Russell, Thomas, to Jane Larey (dau. of Margaret Martin), TC, Mar. 24, 1828; by Solomon Crose,
                        MG, Mar. 27,1828, p. 18.
               Dixon, Samuel A., to Elenor Richards, TC, LA, Mar. 31, 1828; by Levi Thornton, JP, April
                        3,1828, p. 18.
               Wright, Thomas Jefferson (son of Runnel), to Elizabeth Andrews, LA, TC, Apr. 2, 1828; by Levi
                        Thornton, Apr. 3, 1828, p. 19.
               Holloway, John, to Emily M. McGeorge, TC, LA, Apr. 8, 1828; by Reuben Kelsey, JP, Apr. 10,
                        1828, p. 19.
               Ellis, Mordacai, LA, to Sarah Broccas (Brockus) (dau. of John), TC, Apr. 9, 1828; by Abel
                        Janney, Apr. 17, 1828, p. 20.
               Trekel, Stephen, to Jemima Kenser (dau. of Adam), TC, LA, Apr. 10, 1828; by Abel Janney, Apr.
                        15, 1828, p. 20.
               Green, James, to Mary Parks, TC, LA, Apr. 26, 1828; by Abel Janney, May 1, 1828, p. 21.
               Shepherd, Adam, to Nancy Galbreath, TC, LA, May 5, 1828; by Reuben Kelsey, May 8, 1828, p. 21.
               Goldsberry, Silas, to Sarah Holladay, TC, LA, May 14, 1828; by Levi Thornton, May 15,1828, p.
                        22.
               McGuire, William, to Mary Ingersull (dau. of Benjamin), TC, LA, May 16, 1828; by Eli P.
                        Farmer, MG, MEC, May 17, 1828, p. 22.
               
               Ellis, Mordecai, to Cinderella Huff, TC, LA, May 31, 1828; by Abel Janney, JP, June 8, 1828,
                        p. 23.
               McDeed (son of James) to Carinda Davis Wylie, (dau. of James), TC, June 2, 1828; by Stephen
                        Kennedy, JP, June 6, 1828, p. 23.
               Morris, Henry, M.D., to Polly Reynolds (dau. of Philip), TC, LA, June 12, 1828; by Reuben
                        Kelsey, June 15, 1828, p. 24.
            
         
      
   
