
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 70, Issue 2, pages 95-196. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:70+issue:2+year:1974&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Charles Leich and Company of 
                        Evansville
                    : A Note on the Dilemma of German Americans during World War I
            Darrel E. Bigham*
            One of the many unfortunate side effects of war is the facility with which loyalty and race or
                    nationality are confused. Such confusion had special meaning for the thousands of Indiana's
                    German Americans during World War I, when governmental, business, and civic organizations promoted
                    the notion that Germans belonged to some subhuman species. Even those German Americans of
                    untarnished reputation were subjected to a variety of indignities, including loyalty oaths for
                    teachers of German, laws forbidding the public use of the German language, and crusades against
                    foods of German origin. Such occurrences were common in 
                        Evansville
                    , Indiana, a city with many citizens of German ancestry. For example, prominent civic
                    leaders forced Frederick Lauen-stein, an eminent citizen and the publisher of the German language
                    daily, the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Täglicher Demokrat, to cease publication on April 28, 1918.
                    Lauenstein's crime, according to his critics, was that the continued appearance of this
                    German language newspaper—published since the Civil War—was an obstacle to the
                    city's gaining the reputation of being "100 percent American."1
            
            A lesser known example of this problem was the case of Charles Leich and Company of 
                        Evansville
                    . Charles Leich, 
                  *Darrel E. Bigham is assistant professor of history, Indiana State University, 
                                Evansville
                            .
                  
                     1
                            
                                Evansville
                             (Indiana) Täglicher Demokrat, April
                            26–28, 1918.
               
                     born in 1833, had left Westphalia with his parents in 1848 and
                    come to Indiana's "Cresent City" shortly thereafter. A chemist by
                    training, he found work with a retail druggist, Crawford Bell, but in 1854 he went into partnership
                    with August Carlstedt and set up a wholesale drug firm at 38 Main Street. In the same year he became
                    an American citizen. During the next forty years, his business connections in the pharmaceutical
                    trade varied. He was partner for a time with his brother-in-law, Alexander Lemcke, and later with
                    August Carlstedt and Peter Vierling. In 1890, he established Charles Leich and Company, aided by
                    Lemcke and by Carl Leich, his eldest son. The firm, which dealt primarily in wholesale drugs and
                    sundries, was situated at 117–121 Upper First Street until 1914, when it was relocated at
                    Fifth and Bond streets, occupying the building which had once housed Lemcke's 
                        Evansville
                     Woolen Mill. By 1917, the assets of the company totalled half a million dollars.2
            
            Charles Leich and his family were Evansvillians of unquestionable loyalty and civic eminence. Married
                    to Wil-helmina Lemcke, whose brothers August and Alexander were prominent in local and state
                    business and political affairs, Leich mixed freely with the city's predominantly English
                    and Scotch Irish establishment and took up residence in its posh riverside district. He and his
                    seven children—Carl, Ida, Anna, Walter, Herbert, Clarence, and 
                        Chester
                    , all born between 1864 and 1889—were active in a variety of civic projects
                    and proud of their American citizenship. Herbert, for example, was a pioneer supporter of operas and
                    symphony orchestras in the city of 
                        Evansville
                    ; Clarence was onetime 
                  
                     2 Alexander L. Leich, interview with the author, March 22, 1973.
                            Leich, a grandson of Charles Leich, is a retired officer of Charles Leich and Company. The
                            author would like to express his appreciation to Charles Leich and Company, and particularly
                            to Alexander Leich, for assisting him in the completion of this study. See also W. H.
                            Chandler, Directory of the City of 
                                    Evansville
                                
                      (
                                Evansville
                            , 1858), 141; Williams and Company, Williams' 
                                    Evansville
                                 Directory for 1872-1873 (
                                Evansville
                            , 1872), 188; H. Thornton Bennett, Bennett and Company's 
                                    Evansville City
                                 Directory …, XVI (
                                Evansville
                            , 1882), 270; XIX (
                                Evansville
                            , 1885), 252; XXIV (
                                Evansville
                            , 1890), 291; XXV (
                                Evansville
                            , 1891), 339; and Frank M. Gilbert, History of the City of 
                                    Evansville
                                 and 
                                    Vanderburgh County
                                , Indiana (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1910), II, 285-86. For a detailed study of the problems of German Americans
                            during World War I, see Carl Frederick Wittke, German Americans and the World
                                War (With Special Emphasis on 
                                    Ohio
                                's German-language Press) (
                                    Ohio
                                 Historical Collections, Vol. V; 
                                Columbus
                            , 1936). A briefer account is in Richard O'Connor, The
                                German Americans: An Informal History (
                                Boston
                            , 1968), 376-428.
               
                     president of the 
                        Evansville
                     Chamber of Commerce; and Walter was president of the Boehne Hospital Board of
                    Directors. Understandably, some ties with the fatherland remained. Herbert studied pharmacology at
                    the University of Freiburg; Ida and Anna married German citizens and settled in 
                        Germany
                    ; and Charles Leich frequently spent his summers with his daughters and their families
                    after wintering on the French Riviera. Like many heirs of the German revolutions of 1848, he and his
                    sons were anticlerical in religion and Republican in politics. The family had virtually no
                    connections with the city's more recent German settlers, who had immigrated between 1870
                    and 1890 and taken up residence on the city's west side. Like their father,
                    Leich's sons were interested in the wholesale drug business and, with his advancing age,
                    took a greater hand in the operation of the family firm. They too resided on either Riverside Drive
                    or First Street in the riverside district claimed by the leaders of 
                        Evansville
                     civic and business affairs. One son, Clarence, married the grand-niece of John W.
                    Foster, the noted diplomat and lawyer from 
                        Evansville
                     who was a former 
                        United States
                     secretary of state. The marriage established a distant relationship between Clarence
                    and Woodrow Wilson's Secretary of State, Robert Lansing, who was Foster's
                        son-in-law.3
            
            Accompanied by his wife, Leich chose to leave 
                        Evansville
                     in the fall of 1910 for a lengthy visit with his daughters in 
                        Germany
                    . His youngest son, 
                        Chester
                    , also accompanied the seventy-seven year old Leich to 
                        Germany
                     but, after studying for a while in 
                        Switzerland
                    , decided to I'eturn to the 
                        United States
                     to study art in 
                        Chicago
                    . The other four Leich brothers—Carl, Herbert, Clarence, and
                    Walter—took charge of the 
                  
                     3 Carl Leich was born in 1864, Ida in 1866, Anna in 1875, Walter in
                            1878, Herbert in 1881, Clarence in 1884, and 
                                Chester
                             in 1889. John W. Foster of 
                                Evansville
                             served as 
                                United States
                             secretary of state in 1892-1893, during the administration of President
                            Benjamin Harrison. His daughters were married to Allen Dulles and Robert Lansing. President
                            Dwight D. Eisenhower's Secretary of State, John Foster Dulles, was the grandson of
                            John W. Foster. Alexander L. Leich, interview with the author, May 14, 1971; Bennett
                            Directory Company, 
                        
                                    Evansville City
                                 Directory, LXII (
                                Evansville
                            , 1918), 448. See also pages 2-4 of Louis L. Gerson, John Foster
                                Dulles (
                                New York
                            , 1967), which is volume seventeen of Samuel Flagg Bemis and Robert H. Farrell,
                            eds., The American Secretaries of State and Their Diplomacy (18 vols.,
                            1927-1970). A sketch by William R. Castle, Jr., of John W. Foster's life and
                            services as secretary of state is in volume eight of the same series, pages 185-223.
               
                    
                    
                  Seated, Charles Leich, Clarence, 
                                Chester
                            , Wilhelmina Lemcke Leich Standing', Ida, Carl, Herbert, Anna, Walter
                  Courtesy Charles Leich and Company and Alexander L. Leich
               
                     firm in their father's absence and insured that he
                    would receive enough financial assistance from them so that he would not tax the resources of his
                    daughters.
            The elder Leich's stay in his native land was complicated by two unforeseen events. In
                    February, 1914, Ida's husband died, leaving her with only moderate means of support, and
                    thus the sending of funds to her father, who was staying with her in Flensburg, a city in
                    Schleswig-Holstein near the Danish border, became even more important than before. On March 20,
                    1914, moreover, Ida wrote Walter and his wife that her father would not be able to return to the 
                        United States
                     because of ill health and old age. "At his age," she warned,
                    "it does not take much to bring about a change, or rather every illness or excitement shows
                        doubly."4 Hence she decided it was better for him to remain with
                    her. The outbreak of the war in Europe in the summer of 1914 added a final obstacle to
                    Leich's return. While the 
                        United States
                     remained officially neutral, however, the State Department permitted the family to
                    transmit funds to him. As late as October 28, 1916, Undersecretary of State Frank L. Polk took a
                    personal hand in insuring that $1,000.00 reached Leich. It seems clear that the
                    relationship of Clarence Leich and Secretary of State Lansing had been an asset in this matter, for
                    such a high ranking official as Polk would not ordinarily have been involved in such an apparently
                    trivial matter.5
            
            The advent of American involvement in the war on April 6, 1917, changed everything. The breaking of
                    diplomatic relations in February had made communication between Charles Leich and his sons nearly
                    impossible, despite Leich's deteriorating condition, and the state of war increased the
                    likelihood that the 
                        United States
                     government would crack down on the forwarding of any money to persons in 
                        Germany
                    . 
                  
                     4 Ida Schnack to Walter and Pilar Leich, March 20, 1914, in Alien
                            Property Custodian vs. Charles Leich and Company File, Archives of Indiana
                            State University, 
                                Evansville
                             (hereafter cited as Leich File). This file contains nearly 100 items relating
                            not only to the company's struggle with the Alien Property Custodian but also to
                            the family's attempts to keep in touch with their father and sisters during the
                            First World War. Wilhelmina Lemcke Leich died in October, 1911, at the home of her daughter
                            Anna in Altona, 
                                Germany
                            . She was sixty-eight. Alexander L. Leich, interview with the author, March 19,
                            1974.
                  
                     5 Frank L. Polk to John H. Foster, October 18, 1916, Leich File.
                            Foster, the nephew of John W. Foster, was Clarence Leich's father-in-law.
               
                     Hence Carl wrote the State Department on April 18, 1917, that 
                  
                     
                        the principal of this firm, Mr. Charles Leich, an American citizen, is living in
                                    Flensburg, 
                                        Germany
                                    , in the care of a daughter, the widow of a German citizen, and owing to
                                    his age of 84 years he did not leave 
                                        Germany
                                     at the outbreak of the war, having secured the assurance of the
                                    authorities that he would not be molested at the outbreak of hostilities.
                        Will you kindly advise us whether it is possible to forward a remittance to him,
                                    possibly through the American Diplomatic Service in some neutral European country
                                    and if so advise us what steps are necessary for us in the matter [?]6
                        
                     
                  
               
            
            The reply of the State Department, although direct, was not at all pleasing, for it established harsh
                    terms under which the brothers would have to operate for the next eighteen months. The chief of the
                    State Department Bureau of Accounts, William McNeir, stated that Lansing had instructed him to
                    advise that "owing to the severance of diplomatic relations … the Department can
                    only accept funds for such American citizens therein, as desire to return to the 
                        United States
                     …." Should it be so desired, the State Department would
                    "endeavor to transmit a sufficient amount through the Spanish Ambassador at
                        Berlin."7
            
            Seeing that Lansing would prove to be difficult to persuade in wartime, Carl asked Congressman George
                    K. Denton, an 
                        Evansville
                     Democrat, to do "anything you may be able to do." He explained the
                    plight of his father and added that, although the brothers had sought in February to remove their
                    father to a neutral country, their sister Ida had wired that "the authorities would respect
                    his age."8 Denton replied on May 28 that he had taken up the matter
                    with Henry D. Flood, chairman of the House Foreign Affairs Committee, but then he wrote on June 6
                    that Flood had been unhelpful. Denton added that he had personally called on Lansing, who declared
                    it was impossible to permit any money to be sent to 
                        Germany
                    , for "no matter to whom the money is sent, it will be spent there and 
                        Germany
                     will thereby profit to that extent." Lansing also said that Charles Leich was
                    only one of many persons stranded by the war and that "pensioners 
                  
                     6 Charles Leich and Company to Department of State, April 18, 1917,
                                ibid.
                  
                  
                     7 William McNeir to Charles Leich [sic], April 25,
                            1917, ibid.
                  
                  
                     8 Carl Leich to George K. Denton, May 23, 1917, ibid.
                  
               
                     living in 
                        Germany
                     are not paid their pension now." Denton told Carl that he had "tried
                    to prevail upon him by reason of the fact that your family and his family are distantly connected
                    through the family of Judge Foster but to no avail." Lansing had noted that "your
                    father could get the money by going to 
                        Switzerland
                     …."9
            
            Unwilling to relent, Carl wrote Lansing on June 8 and requested that the State Department at least
                    advise his father "through the Spanish Ambassador at Berlin that if he will move to a
                    neutral country, either 
                        Denmark
                     or 
                        Switzerland
                    , I can provide him with money."10 McNeir replied for
                    Lansing on June 18 that the department needed more information, but another official wrote several
                    days later that the department could do nothing because the person involved was not an American
                    citizen. Charles Leich, it was alleged, had lost his citizenship by the presumption of expatriation,
                    since he had not applied for a new passport while in 
                        Germany
                    . Carl immediately consulted Denton about the matter and also sought the advice of his
                    youngest brother, 
                        Chester
                    , who had visited his father in early 1916. 
                        Chester
                     suggested requesting the name of the former American consul at Hamburg, through whom
                    Charles Leich had in 1916 sought to obtain a passport renewal. The State Department wrote that the
                    official, Francis R. Stewart, had since become vice consul at 
                        Vera Cruz
                    , Mexico. On July 5, Carl wrote asking Stewart if he remembered his father's
                    seeking a passport renewal and noted that the reply would help to disprove the allegation of the
                    State Department that Charles Leich had renounced his citizenship. Meanwhile, Carl wrote Denton on
                    July 2 requesting the State Department to examine the records of its Hamburg consulate.11
            
            On July 12, Carl's persistence began to pay off. Denton called him to his 
                        Evansville
                     office and showed him a communication from Lansing dated July 3, in which was enclosed
                    information on how to secure a passport for an American 
                  
                     9 Denton to Carl Leich, May 28, June 6, 1917, ibid.
                            "Pensioners" was apparently Lansing's term for all the elderly
                            Americans stranded in 
                                Germany
                             and receiving money from home, not just 
                                United States
                             government pensioners.
                  
                     10 Carl Leich to Robert Lansing, June 8, 1917, ibid.
                  
                  
                     11 McNeir to Carl Leich, June 18, 25, 1917; Ben G. Davis to Charles
                            Leich and Company, June 30, 1917; Carl Leich to Denton, July 2, 1917; Carl Leich to Francis
                            R. Stewart, July 5, 1917, ibid.
                  
               
                     citizen residing in a nation at war with the 
                        United States
                    . Lansing also wished an affidavit "concerning the date of his
                    father's departure for 
                        Germany
                    , and the periods and place of his residence abroad since he left this
                        country."12 On July 17, in order to overcome the presumption of
                    expatriation—this is, the assumption that anyone who had lived abroad for two years
                    without applying for a new passport had renounced his citizenship—Carl signed an
                    affidavit in 
                        Vanderburgh County
                     Circuit Court, in which he included not only the information Lansing desired but also
                    the statement that his father had "at no time intended to relinquish said citizenship or
                    return to the citizenship of 
                        Germany
                    " and that he had "been compelled to remain in 
                        Germany
                     by reason of hostilities and also by reason of infirm health and old age."13 He sent the affidavit to Denton, who agreed to give it to Lansing, and
                    several days later he asked Denton to transmit another statement, in which was included a letter
                    recently received from former Consul Stewart, who remembered that Charles Leich had "had a
                    valid passport when I left or had recently applied for one." Stewart added that Leich
                    "was in no condition of health to make a journey to the 
                        United States
                     the last time I saw him, late in 1916." He suggested this fact be brought to
                    the attention of the State Department, since "the applicant's residence abroad is
                    in good faith for reasons of health and he eventually intends to return to the 
                        United States
                     to reside."14 On July 31, Denton wrote Carl that he had
                    had a personal interview at the State Department, where he had been informed that, although no mail
                    could go directly to 
                        Germany
                    , communication could be made through the neutral Spanish government. He had also been
                    promised that as much as $300.00 could be sent to Charles Leich. The purpose of the
                    money, however, must be "to enable the recipient to go to some neutral country. If he does
                    not go to some neutral country, this will be the last remittance they will permit to be sent to
                    him." The department, moreover, would "merely transmit in its own way the
                    information which you wish to convey."15
            
            
               
                  12 Denton to Carl Leich, July 12, 1917; Lansing to Denton, July 3, 1917
                        (copy), ibid.
               
               
                  13 Affidavit dated July 17, 1917, attached to Carl Leich to Denton, July
                        17, 1917, ibid.
               
               
                  14 Francis R. Stewart to Carl Leich, July 16, 1917, ibid.
               
               
                  15 Denton to Carl Leich, July 31, 1917, ibid.
               
            
            
            On August 9, Lansing wrote Denton that the information provided him was sufficient to prove that
                    "Charles Leich is a naturalized citizen of German origin, and … that the
                    Department is of the opinion that he is in a position to overcome the statutory presumption of
                    expatriation …." He indicated that Carl's check for $300.00
                    was being sent to the Spanish government via the American ambassador at Madrid. The Spanish would
                    then transmit the sum to their representative in Berlin. Lansing added, however, that the elder
                    Leich would be informed by the Spanish officials that "his son will send further
                    remittances to him only in case he proceeds to some neutral country." The Spanish
                    ambassador in Berlin was being authorized to "take Mr. Leich's application for an
                    emergency passport of this Government to facilitate his departure."16
                    Despite Lansing's help in conveying a message and a sum of $300.00, the State
                    Department had maintained its insistence that Charles Leich should—and
                    could—leave 
                        Germany
                    .
            The partial settlement of that crisis proved to be much easier for the Leichs than the handling of
                    subsequent challenges to their father's loyalty. On October 6, 1917, Congress passed the
                    Trading with the Enemy Act to "define, regulate, and punish trading with the enemy, and for
                    other purposes." The terms "enemy" and "ally of enemy"
                    were broad and included any 
                        individual, partnership, or other body of individuals, of any nationality, resident within
                            the territory … of any nation with which the 
                                United States
                             is at war …. [and s]uch other individuals, or body or class of
                            individuals, as may be natives, citizens, or subjects of any nation with which the 
                                United States
                             is at war, other than citizens of the 
                                United States
                            , wherever resident or wherever doing business, as the President …
                            may, by proclamation, include within the term "enemy."17
                  
                     The act gave President Wilson a variety of powers. He could forbid commerce with citizens
                    of enemy nations or their allies and regulate all communications sent outside the 
                        United States
                    . To effect these powers, a War Trade Board 
                  
                     16 Robert Lansing to Denton, August 9, 1917; Denton to Carl Leich,
                            August 15, 1917, ibid. On September 11, Carl received a statement from the
                            State Department certifying that the sum of money had been sent. See Ben G. Davis to Carl
                            Leich, September 11, 1917, ibid.
                  
                  
                     17 "Trading with the Enemy Act" (Public Law 91, 65
                            Cong., 1 Sess.), 
                        
                                    United States
                                 Statutes at Large, Vol. XL, Part 1, p. 411, sec. 2a. There is a slip
                            law copy of this act in the Leich File.
               
                     was established. The act also created an Alien Property
                    Custodian, to whom was to be submitted within sixty days "a full list … of every
                    officer, director, or stockholder known to be … an enemy or ally of enemy …
                    together with the amount of stock or shares owned by each such officer, director, or stockholder, or
                    in which he has any interest."18
            
            Under this sweeping legislation, all companies with enemy or ally of enemy connections were required
                    to obtain licenses to continue operation. If they failed to do so, any money or property owed to,
                    belonging to, or held for any enemy or enemy ally would "be conveyed, transferred,
                    assigned, delivered, or paid over to the alien property custodian."19
                    In addition, all contracts entered into with such companies before April, 1917, could be abrogated.
                    Creditors of those companies would then have to file claims with the custodian. All money received
                    by the government would be deposited in the 
                        United States
                     Treasury. Any property taken into custody could be managed "with all the
                    powers of a common-law trustee," and thus the alien property custodian could 
                        do any act or things in respect thereof or make any disposition thereof … by sale
                            or otherwise, and exercise any rights which may be or become appurtenant thereto or to the
                            ownership thereof, if and when necessary to prevent waste and protect such property and to
                            the end that the interests of the 
                                United States
                             in such property and rights or of such person as may ultimately became entitled
                            thereto, or to the proceeds thereof, may be preserved and safeguarded.20
                  
                     After the end of the war, any property held by the custodian and any money on deposit in
                    the 
                        United States
                     Treasury was to be returned to those "whom the President shall so order, or in
                    whose behalf the court shall enter final judgment or decree …."21 In short, the creation of the War Trade Board and the Alien Property Custodian added to the
                    uncertainty of future communication between Charles Leich and his sons a threat to their control of
                    a substantial portion of their company's assets.
            Soon after passage of the act, while still unaware of all of its details, one of the Leichs, probably
                    Carl, wrote to 
                  
                     18
                            Ibid., p. 416, sec. 7a.
                  
                     19
                            Ibid., p. 418, sec. 7c.
                  
                     20
                            Ibid., pp. 419-20, sec. 8b, 9, 12.
                  
                     21
                            Ibid., p. 424, sec. 12.
               
                     William McAdoo, Secretary of the Treasury, as well as to the
                    Alien Property Custodian, A. Mitchell Palmer, to declare that a part of the company's
                    assets was owned by his sisters, who by their marriages had become German citizens. In each letter
                    the writer asserted that the Leichs had "no desire nor method of paying over to them [the
                    sisters] these sums or any part of them during the duration of the war …. We can see no
                    harm to this government in leaving these sums on deposit with us and it would necessitate our
                    borrowing this money elsewhere if we were obliged to pay it over to a U.S. Custodian."22 He also informed Palmer, in another letter, that his father, who some might
                    consider an enemy because he happened to live in 
                        Germany
                    , was in fact an unfortunate victim of circumstances. To prove this, he quoted the State
                    Department's position given in July. His father's interest in the firm, he added,
                    was the largest of any partner, and the surrender of that share would force the business to close.
                    On October 23, 1917, the assistant secretary of the treasury notified Carl that his department was
                    not responsible for such matters, but four days later Palmer wrote curtly that complete information
                    both on the sisters' shares in the firm and on Charles Leich's situation had to be
                    supplied on proper application forms.23
            
            On the basis of the information supplied, but unknown to Carl or his brothers, Palmer's
                    Bureau of Investigation determined in December that Charles Leich, an "alien
                    enemy," had interest in the company totalling $133,414.57. The Alien Property
                    Custodian's Bureau of Trusts then proceeded in January, 1918, to inform Leich's
                    insurance company that under the terms of the Trading with the Enemy Act all insurance benefits and
                    dividends belonging to this "enemy" had to be reported to the custodian and held
                    by him until 
                  
                     22 Charles Leich and Company to William McAdoo, October 11, 1917;
                            Charles Leich and Company to A. Mitchell Palmer, October 22, 1917, Leich File.
                  
                     23 Charles Leich and Company to Palmer, October 22, 1917; L. [Leo] O.
                            Eowe to Charles Leich and Company, October 23, 1917; Palmer to Charles Leich and Company,
                            October 27, 1917, ibid. Records of the Alien Property Custodian indicate
                            that it was not until the spring of 1918 that Palmer's activities were properly
                            organized and sufficiently defined to pose a threat to businesses with a taint of enemy
                            trade or enemy ownership. See, for example, the Alien Property Custodian, Bureau of
                            Administration, Daily Letter File, Boxes 1-65, Records of the Office of Alien Property,
                            Record Group 131 (Federal Records Center, Suitland, 
                                Maryland
                            ).
               
                     such time as he decided otherwise. Shortly thereafter, the
                    assistant director of the Bureau of Trusts, in response to a query from the War Trade Board, stated
                    that Charles Leich and Company was "a partnership with an enemy interest which partnership
                    has not applied for license to continue in business."24 The Alien
                    Property Custodian, in a word, was proceeding with an investigation not only of the sisters but also
                    of the father without acknowledging that Charles Leich was in fact an American citizen stranded in
                    his native land.
            Meanwhile, the response of Charles Leich's sons to both problems—communication
                    with their father and control of the firm—was complicated by information received from
                    Congressman Denton on November 19, 1917. Undersecretary of State Polk had notified Denton that the
                    American embassy in Madrid had been advised by the Spanish government that the elder Leich had
                    received both the money and the message that he was to depart for some neutral country. The Spanish
                    reported, however, that Leich was unable to travel and provided a medical certificate as proof.
                    Leich was so old and infirm that "he was not able to undertake a short journey to Hamburg
                    to report the details of his case to the [Spanish] Consul." Not only his bodily infirmities
                    but also his declining mental faculties meant that it was "out of the question that he will
                    ever be able to move from his present home." Accordingly, the Spanish embassy in Berlin
                    recommended that the State Department "see its way to permit the continued remittance from
                    his son to the old gentlemen [sic] in his decline."25
                    With that additional information, the brothers on December 3 requested of Palmer that their father
                    "should not be considered an enemy as he lived practically all of his life in this country
                    and was always a loyal American and a good citizen, and we hope that it will not be necessary 
                  
                     24 Report No. 1246, December 1917, Alien Property Custodian, Bureau of
                            Investigation, Numerical File, Box 106, File 2389; Director, Bureau of Trusts, Alien
                            Property Custodian, to 
                                Connecticut
                             Mutual Life Insurance Company, January 31, 1918, Alien Property Custodian,
                            Bureau of Administration, General Office Numerical File, Box 88, File GO-5107, Records of
                            the Office of Alien Property. See also memorandum from F. J. Horne to War Trade Board,
                            Bureau of Enemy Trade, February 19, 1918, in War Trade Board, Preliminary Inventory 100,
                            Entry 138, Drawer 117, Records of the War Trade Board, Record Group 182 (Federal Records
                            Center, Suitland, 
                                Maryland
                            ).
                  
                     25 Denton to Carl Leich, November 19, 1917; Frank L. Polk to Denton,
                            November 16, 1917, with copy of dispatch attached, Leich File.
               
                     to burden this firm with any restrictions, expenses, or
                    hardships in the matter."26
            
            Despite these pleas, more difficulties emerged. Carl was notified on December 11 by Thomas Francis of
                    the Bureau of Enemy Trade, War Trade Board, that he would have to complete appropriate application
                    forms and return them to that office before any other messages or money could be sent to his father.
                    This development indicated that the State Department was no longer involved directly in the case.
                    After Carl complied with this new agency's requirements, Francis wrote on December 21 that
                    he should send any letter he wished transmitted to 
                        Germany
                     to the Bureau of Enemy Trade, which would then decide whether a license was to be
                    granted so that the message could go through. On December 24, Carl sent Francis a lengthy letter to
                    be forwarded to his sister Ida.
            Unaware of Carl's communications with Francis, another officer of the Bureau of Enemy Trade,
                    F. M. McGonigal, requested that Carl fill out more application blanks for sending a message but in
                    the same letter informed him that a license had been granted for sending additional funds. In the
                    future, Carl was instructed, it would be necessary to apply to McGonigal's department for a
                    license for each additional remittance. On January 4, 1918, a license to transmit money was sent
                    from 
                        Washington
                    , and three days later Carl wrote out a check for $300.00 and returned it to
                    the Bureau of Enemy Trade. On January 25, William McNeir, chief of the Bureau of Accounts of the
                    State Department, informed Carl that the sum had been sent but in his letter listed Ida's
                    address incorrectly as Hamburg rather than Flensburg. Carl wrote immediately that there had been a
                    mistake, but McNeir responded that the address used was the one Carl had provided and that if an
                    error had occurred Carl, and not he, was responsible.27 In any event, there was
                    no guarantee that the money would reach its destination.
            
               
                  26 Charles Leich and Company to Alien Property Custodian, December 3,
                        1917, ibid.
               
               
                  27 Thomas Francis to Carl Leich, December 11, 1917; Carl Leich to Bureau
                        of Enemy Trade, December 14, 1917; Francis to Carl Leich, December 21, 1917; Carl Leich to Ida
                        Schnack, December 24, 1917; F. M. McGonigal to Carl Leich, December 28, 1917, with attached
                        letter, McGonigal to Denton, December 28, 1917; Marion L. Worrell to Carl Leich, January 4,
                        1918; Carl Leich to Bureau of Enemy Trade, January 7, 1918; William McNeir to Carl Leich,
                        January 25, 1918; McNeir to Carl Leich, February 1, 1918, ibid.
               
            
            
            To complicate matters further, McGonigal of the Bureau of Enemy Trade wrote on January 23 that
                    "we find that under present conditions it is impossible for us to transmit for you your
                    letter to Mrs. Schnak [sic] in 
                        Germany
                    ." The reason given was that Charles Leich was "a German
                        subject."28 Upon receiving this information, Carl sent a brief but
                    bewildered reply, reminding the bureau that Leich's citizenship had already been
                    acknowledged by the State Department. After apparently checking with the State Department, the
                    bureau did grant Carl a license to communicate with his father, in care of his sister Ida, on
                    January 31. Included in the license was a copy of the message which was in fact sent to 
                        Germany
                    . Parapharased from Carl's original long letter, it was only a few lines in
                    length: "All of your children and their families are well. No births or deaths in the
                    family except brother Clarence's father-in-law [John H. Foster] died last summer. 
                        Chester
                     is excused from military service. Brother Walter well and at work. We have heretofore
                    made two remittances to you of three hundred dollars each."29
            
            The problem of communication, however unclearly resolved, did not recur during the remainder of 1918,
                    but it proved small compared with a new crisis which began on March 1. On that day, F. J. Home,
                    assistant director of the Bureau of Trusts in the office of the Alien Property Custodian, demanded
                    delivery of the shares in Charles Leich and Company of the sisters, Ida and Anna, whom
                    Palmer's agency had determined were enemies of the 
                        United States
                     under the terms of the Trading with the Enemy Act. On March 5, Carl wrote Congressman
                    Denton that it was his "impression that it is altogether a matter of discretion with the
                    custodian whether to demand transfer of such property or to leave it in the hands of those
                    previously holding it." In his case there was "no means or any desire to send this
                    money to an enemy country and the hardship would fall on 
                  
                     28 McGonigal to Carl Leich, January 23, 1918, ibid.
                  
                  
                     29 Carl Leich to Bureau of Enemy Trade, January 26, 1918; License
                            ET-8217, January 31, 1918, Bureau of Enemy Trade, War Trade Board, ibid.
                            All told, the family requested licenses six times from the bureau and received approval in
                            each instance. According' to the records of the bureau, licenses to send either
                            money or messages were granted December 28, 1917; January 2, 31, March 22, July 11, and
                            October 14, 1918. See War Trade Board, Preliminary Inventory 100, Entry 107, Drawers 28-31,
                            33, Records of the War Trade Board.
               
                    
                    
                  Courtesy Charles Leich and Company and Alexander L. Leich
               
                     our firm, rather than on the so-called enemy subjects, both of
                    whom are American-born women." He added that in the near future the firm, like all 
                        Evansville
                     businesses, would "be expected to buy additional amounts of Liberty Bonds and
                    also pay considerable sums in the way of Excess Profit and Income Taxes." The shares
                    requested by Palmer had been no "temporary deposit to be used for purposes inimical to the 
                        United States
                     government" but had been "a permanent loan or deposit used in
                    carrying on and extending our business …."30 On the same day
                    he also wrote Palmer that Denton "will no doubt confer with you regarding the matter in a
                    few days. We beg to assure you that we are at all times willing and anxious to conform to all
                    demands …."31
            
            Despite Denton's efforts to alter the ruling of the Alien Property Custodian, on March 18
                    the congressman informed Carl that Palmer felt no exception could be made in this case. Palmer,
                    whose reply to Denton on March 16 was attached to Denton's letter to Carl, had declared
                    that the two cases of the sisters "clearly come within the class designated by Congress as
                    enemies in the Trading with the Enemy Act." Denton noted that he had "explained to
                    them that it might cripple a firm to take this money out, but they say that under the law they have
                    no option in the matter." If it could be shown that Charles Leich and Company would be
                    ruined and that it could not borrow the money elsewhere, he added, "I might be able to get
                    the ruling modified, but otherwise, we seem to be up against it."32 On
                    March 19, the Bureau of Trusts notified the company that there must be "a forthwith
                    compliance with the demand heretofore made upon you."33
            
            The brothers made a final appeal to Palmer on March 21, when they stated that, since "all of
                    the active members of this firm have done hard work in the Liberty Loan campaigns and subscribed
                    liberally for the bonds," it would be fair to "expect [the company] to do the same
                    thing with the prospective issue …." They suggested that "you permit
                        
                  
                     30 Home to Charles Leich and Company, two letters, each dated March 1,
                            1918, and two copies of demand for property, dated February 27, 1918; Carl Leich to Denton,
                            March 5, 1918, Leich File.
                  
                     31 Carl Leich to Palmer, March 5, 1918, ibid.
                  
                  
                     32 Denton to Carl Leich, March 16, 1918; Denton to Carl Leich, March
                            18, 1918, with enclosed letter, Palmer to Denton, March 16, 1918, ibid.
                  
                  
                     33 Home to Charles Leich and Company, March 19, 1918, ibid.
                  
               
                     us to invest these funds, amounting to a little over
                    $4,000.00, in the forthcoming issue [of war bonds], sending the bonds to you."
                    Hence, they argued, "we will have done our share and can hold up our heads among our
                    neighbors, at the same time complying with the requirements of the Act ….34 On March 27, however, Assistant Director Home asserted that such patriotism, although
                    commendable, was unacceptable, and he repeated his previous demand for the sisters' shares
                    of the firm. On April 1, the firm sent the sum, amounting to nearly $4,200.00, to
                    Palmer's office, where the money was to be invested in government war bonds in the name of
                    the Alien Property Custodian.35
            
            During the next several months, the Leichs attempted to maintain their company as best they could,
                    while participating actively in the war effort. One brother, Clarence, showed his patriotism by
                    going to 
                        Washington
                     to become associate director of purchases, division of supplies, at American Red Cross
                    headquarters, for the salary of one dollar a year. Carl, Herbert, and Walter remained in 
                        Evansville
                     and continued periodically to apply to the War Trade Board for licenses to transmit
                    money to their father. During the spring and summer of 1918 they encountered no difficulties with
                    that agency and heard nothing more from the Alien Property Custodian. It appeared that their
                    troubles with the wartime bureacracies had been ended.36
            
            The relatively placid atmosphere was shattered, however, by three events. First, on June 11, L. F.
                    Spear, deputy commissioner of internal revenue, wrote to Charles Leich at his 
                        Evansville
                     address a letter asserting that Leich owed $30.00 on his 1915 tax return,
                    because, "as it appears from your return that you are a non-resident alien, the specific
                    exemption of $3000 has been disallowed."37 Carl Leich wrote
                    on his father's behalf to Spear's superior on June 13, saying that the additional
                    tax would not be paid. It "is not so much the amount of additional tax of $30.00
                    involved as the principle that he is an American citizen," Carl wrote, and he enclosed
                    Lansing's letter of August 9, 1917, as proof of his father's 
                  
                     34 Charles Leich and Company to Palmer, March 21, 1918, ibid.
                  
                  
                     35 Home to Charles Leich and Company, March 27, 1918; Charles Leich
                            and Company to Home, April 1, 1918, ibid.
                  
                  
                     36 McGonigal to Carl Leich, March 16, July 5, 1918, ibid.
                  
                  
                     37 L. F. Spear to Charles Leich, June 11, 1918, ibid.
                  
               
                     status. On June 24 he sent additional proof and reiterated that
                    it was his purpose to "establish his [father's] citizenship rather than to save
                    the amount of $30.00 involved …."38 On July 15,
                    Spear notified Carl that the matter had been dropped, since Charles Leich's citizenship had
                    been "fully established."39
            
            The second distressing event was the news that Leich's health was worsening. The State
                    Department informed the family on June 24 that the Spanish government had reported that
                    "the old gentleman … is very grateful for the news from his children and will be
                    glad of the assistance of the American Legation in transmitting a message on his behalf
                    …." The report stated that he was "fairly well and cheerful,"
                    considering his age, but added that "his decay both bodily and mentally has advanced
                    considerably of late …."40
            
            Neither of these developments was as traumatic as the letter received on Monday morning, September
                    23, from Joseph F. Guffey, director of the Bureau of Sales of the Alien Property
                    Custodian's office. Guffey demanded no less than "the right, title, and interest
                    of Charles Leich, of Flensburg, 
                        Germany
                    , in your firm." To facilitate the work of his department, which was located in 
                        New York
                     City, he requested "a complete history of the business, a copy of the last
                    balance sheet, a certified copy of the partnership agreement, and if you have [one] an additional
                    copy of the last accountant's report of the business …."41
            
            The reply of the brothers to Guffey was immediate and frank. Writing for the company, Walter Leich
                    declared that "we are not sure that we understand the demand fully and beg to ask you to
                    inform us just what we are expected to 
                  
                     38 Carl Leich to Daniel C. Roper, June 13, 24, 1918, ibid.
                  
                  
                     39 Spear to Carl Leich, July 15, 1918, ibid.
                  
                  
                     40 William Phillips, assistant secretary of state, to Carl Leich, June
                            24, 1918, with copy of message attached, dated April 15, 1918, ibid. It is
                            interesting to note, however, that on at least one occasion before this time Anna had sought
                            to send a letter to Clarence by other means than the Spanish government, for on April 10,
                            1918, the 
                                United States
                             government intercepted a letter sent under neutral cover via Stockholm. The
                            message, never delivered, is still classified by the State Department, and only the fact of
                            its capture is apparent. See memo dated April 10, 1918, in War Trade Board, Preliminary
                            Inventory 100, Entry 138, Drawer 117, Records of the War Trade Board.
                  
                     41 Joseph F. Guffey to Charles Leich and Company, September 20, 1918,
                            Leich File.
               
                     do." He enclosed a copy of the last balance sheet and
                    a certified copy of the partnership agreement but asked for a special investigation of the
                    company's case, as allowed under section 7(c) of the Trading with the Enemy Act. He
                    repeated the various ways in which his father's citizenship and loyalty had already been
                    proved and noted the impossibility, because of old age and illness, of his father's leaving 
                        Germany
                    . He reaffirmed the loyalty of himself and his brothers and requested that Guffey
                    "bear in mind that the reputation of a strictly American firm might suffer great damage by
                    being mentioned in connection with the Alien Property Custodian, thereby having the suspicion of
                    Pro-German leanings cast upon it by its customers."42
            
            This crisis should not have been wholly a surprise, for the brothers should have been alerted by a
                    letter from Home of the Bureau of Trusts on March 27, in which Horne had requested further
                    information about the elder Leich. Carl had sent the required details and for the next five months
                    had heard nothing more of the matter.43 But during that time, while the nation
                    was being urged as never before to give unselfishly to the war effort and Congress was passing such
                    comprehensive legislation as the Sedition Act, designed to end antiwar conversation, the various war
                    agencies were intensifying their activities. Exemplary of the new energy of the Alien Property
                    Custodian's office was a bulletin from that agency, doubtless released wdth
                    Palmer's approval, which was published in the September 14, 1918, issue of Literary Digest. The bulletin announced that, since millions of dollars of enemy owned
                    property had been disguised by "Teutonic camouflages," it was the duty of every
                    loyal citizen to communicate "any knowledge, or even any well-grounded suspicion"
                    of such camouflage. Although 140 firms, including the Bayer Chemical Company, Merck and Company, and
                    the Hayden Chemical Works, had already been taken into custody, the author of the bulletin declared
                    the fight was not over, 
                  
                     42 Walter Leich to Bureau of Sales, Alien Property Custodian,
                            September 23, 1918, ibid.
                  
                  
                     43 Horne to Charles Leich and Company, March 27, 1918; Carl Leich to
                            Home, April 1, 1918, ibid. The demand for Charles Leich's
                            interest in the business was delivered to the Alien Property Custodian's General
                            Business Office on May 31, and late in the summer it was turned over to the Bureau of
                            Investigation, Office of Alien Property. See Guffey to Horne, October 7, 1918, Alien
                            Property Custodian, Bureau of Administration, Daily Letter File, Box 63, Records of the
                            Office of Alien Property.
               
                     because, he alleged, the German government had cunningly
                    disguised the control which it had accrued over every vital American industry before 1917. Because
                    the expanse of the enemy conspiracy was enormous, it was "the duty of every 100 per cent.
                    American to keep his eyes and ears open for any clue, no matter how slight, that may lead to the
                    detection of money and property of enemy character." Even "rumor or
                    gossip" should be reported, since the "simplest rumor may be a lead to a large
                    amount of enemy-owned property." The Trading with the Enemy Act, the writer asserted,
                    allowed no exemptions—"American citizens included"—under its
                    definition of enemy and enemy ally, but it depended for its implementation upon the individual
                    citizen who was willing to be alert for possible enemy owned companies, money, or property
                    interests. Any firm or minority interests which the 
                        United States
                     took over would "be sold at public auction and the money therefrom invested in
                    Liberty bonds." Therefore do not "let a single dollar of enemy-owned money or
                    property get away," the writer urged. "Help ferret it out, so that more
                    ammunition, more food, and more of the other things so necessary for the success of American arms
                    can be sent to the men on the firing line."44 In another public
                    statement, Palmer himself argued for government confiscation of enemy owned factories at the end of
                    the war, not merely retention of custody until the conflict was over. "The government finds
                    itself with a large organization at its own expense preserving property," he said, property
                    "which was placed here originally as a hostile act looking to the conquest of
                        America."45
            
            The amount of work that was being generated in Palmer's office is evident in the number of
                    complaints written by lower level officials to their superiors in which there were frequent
                    descriptions of evening and Sunday hours. This increased activity clearly reflected
                    Palmer's desire to make his work completely successful. At a meeting of Alien Property
                    Custodian officials on July 12, 1918, Palmer stiffened previous policy, saying that he would
                    "not intervene unless the enemy's claim appears to be meritorious and
                        substantial."46 As a result, in the late summer and early fall of
                        
                  
                     44 "Personal Glimpses," Literary
                            Digest, LVIII (September 14, 1918), 38-40.
                  
                     45 Unidentified newspaper clipping, October 5, [1918], Leich File.
                  
                     46 Minutes of Noonday Conferences of Alien Property Custodian
                            Officials, July 12, 1918, Records of the Office of Alien Property.
               
                     1918, his organization was more insistent than before that its
                    demands be honored. On August 29, Guffey of the Bureau of Sales wrote Home of the Bureau of Trusts
                    requesting a list of all companies which had not complied with previous services of demand, and on
                    September 11 Home sent the list to Guffey.47 Shortly thereafter, a number of
                    firms, including Leich and Company, were contacted by Guffey and requested to comply.48
            
            On October 2, in the face of a challenge which could all but destroy the company and dishonor the
                    family name, Walter Leich wrote Guffey to inform him that his brother Clarence, in 
                        Washington
                     in his capacity as an official of the Red Cross, would soon be contacting the office of
                    the Bureau of Trusts and that in the near future all correspondence would be with either Home or
                    Palmer. The situation was made even more urgent as the result of notice received shortly thereafter
                    from Francis P. Garvan, head of Palmer's Bureau of Investigations, to the effect that
                    because of the need for increased revenue in wartime the Trading with the Enemy Act had been amended
                    to allow the Alien Property Custodian virtually a free hand in deciding what to do with the property
                    he secured. Particularly distressing was Garvan's remark that the amended legislation
                    permitted the sale of enemy property at public auction.49 Immediate and decisive
                    action was required to save the company and the family reputation.
            Accordingly, Herbert Leich travelled to 
                        Washington
                     to join with his brother Clarence in prevailing upon Palmer to exempt the firm from
                    custody. On Friday, October 4, the two visited Palmer's office, and, although Palmer was
                    absent, his secretary surprised the brothers by stating that their case was extremely strong and
                    that the evidence justified a favorable decision without the director's personal approval.
                    Upon hearing that, Herbert sent a telegram to 
                  
                     47 Guffey to Horne, August 29, 1918; Horne to Guffey, September 11,
                            1918, Alien Property Custodian, Bureau of Administration, General Office File, Box 60, File
                            GO-3511, ibid. For evidence of overwork in many Alien Property Custodian
                            offices, see for example J. R. Zimmerman to H. [Henry] E. Ahern, May 2, 1918, ibid.
                  
                  
                     48 Guffey to Charles Leich and Company, September 20, 1918, Leich
                            File.
                  
                     49 Walter Leich to Bureau of Sales, Alien Property Custodian, October
                            2, 1918; Garvan to Charles Leich and Company, October 2, 1918, Leich File.
               
                     Walter, asserting that the decision would come on Saturday.50 That afternoon, however, the two met three lawyers from Home's
                    office, the Bureau of Trusts, and were amazed to discover that none knew much about the matter and
                    that they were not even familiar with the various decisions concerning the citizenship of Charles
                    Leich. The three lawyers agreed that the case needed further investigation. One of them suggested,
                    as Clarence wrote on Saturday to Walter, that the brothers buy out their father's interest.
                    The attorneys also agreed after considerable discussion to consult documents left by Clarence and
                    Herbert and to return a decision on Monday, October 7. After hearing that, Clarence proceeded to
                    Lansing's office, where he arranged to see the secretary of state on Monday morning. As he
                    wrote to Walter, 
                  
                     
                        P's [Palmer's] henchmen will send someone to the State Dep[artment]
                                    on Monday to get an opinion on the matter, but we thought it best to enlist Bob
                                    immediately & put it up to him squarely, viz., financial ruin &
                                    disgrace for the family. This latter may appeal to him strongly. In a way, the
                                    [State] Dep[artment]'s stand is responsible for the whole thing. If they
                                    had not acquiesced and had [not] insisted on F's [father's]
                                    leaving, this matter would not have arisen.51
                        
                     
                  
                Despite Clarence's skepticism about Lansing's role, he was sanguine about
                    the outcome, since "too many depts. are committed in black and white in our
                        favor."52
            
            Writing to his wife, Herbert Leich was less charitable than Clarence towards Palmer's
                    "henchmen." In the meeting with the three lawyers, whom Herbert identified only as
                    Home, Whittaker, and Kinella, he and his brother had become "red hot and had to force
                    ourselves not to fly up in a rage," and when the Leichs "painted to them the
                    distress and ruin that would follow, they simply said 'that's the law and
                    that's what we do in such cases.'" Even with the threat 
                  
                     50 Herbert to Walter Leich, October 4, 1918; Clarence to Walter Leich,
                            October 5, 1918, ibid.
                  
                  
                     51 Clarence to Walter Leich, October 5, 1918, ibid.
                  
                  
                     52
                            Ibid. The confusion in the 
                                Washington
                             office of the Alien Property Custodian was the result of either bureaucratic
                            inefficiency, compounded by the location of the Bureau of Sales in 
                                New York
                             City, or excessive legalism, or both, for early in the summer the Bureau of
                            Investigation had obtained a complete list of American citizens residing in 
                                Germany
                            . On that list, with hundreds of others, was Charles Leich. Like many, he was
                            listed as being of "very old age and poor health." See Alien Property
                            Custodian, File of Garvan, Box 1, Records of the Office of Alien Property.
               
                     of action in 
                        Evansville
                     by a 
                        United States
                     marshal, the brothers continued to balk at the demand order. In exasperation, Herbert
                    stated to Clarence that the two should consult Lansing and made reference to the fact that secretary
                    was a cousin by marriage. This remark "made the triumvirate sort of sit up and take
                    notice." Herbert commented that he thought "our form of government is molded too
                    much by lawyers who like to 'get their records complete,' as these fellows said,
                    and a strong injection of business common sense is badly needed." If necessary, he
                    declared, "we will try to carry the case up to the President." Whatever the
                    result, he added, "we would certainly like to see that bunch get a good 'bawling
                    out' from above."53
            
            The same day their brothers' letters arrived, Monday, October 7, Walter and Carl Leich also
                    received a letter from Guffey of the Bureau of Sales. It was apparent that the 
                        New York
                     office knew nothing of the proceedings in 
                        Washington
                     over that previous weekend, for Guffey requested more information on Charles
                    Leich—the same information Carl had sent to Home a number of times before. Guffey desired
                    to know when their father had gone to 
                        Germany
                    , why he had gone, whether he had any relatives there, and if he were a naturalized
                    citizen. Carl promptly forwarded the letter to Clarence, since he was unsure what was transpiring in 
                        Washington
                    .54
            
            In the meantime, according to Herbert, the brothers in the nation's capital spent Monday
                    seeking an end to the crisis. At 9:30 that morning Clarence telephoned Lansing's office,
                    and the secretary of state's private secretary, Richard Crane, inquired with whom the two
                    had been dealing in Palmer's office. When Clarence replied it had been Horne, Crane said
                    that he knew him. While Clarence held the phone, Crane went in to discuss the matter with Lansing
                    and returned with the news that he was going to telephone a Mr. Davis in Palmer's office
                    and to indicate to him that the custodian ought "to go very slow in this matter and not to
                    take any action unless they were absolutely sure of being right." At 11:45, the brothers
                    saw Davis, who confirmed that he had 
                  
                     53 Herbert Leich to his wife, October 5, 1918, Leich File.
                  
                     54 Copy of Guffey to Charles Leich and Company, October 5, 1918, ibid. Written on the margin of the copy is the note, "sent
                            original to Clarence c/o Red X Hdqtrs, 10-7-18."
               
                     talked with Crane. Davis declared that Home and his associates
                    ought to have taken a common sense approach to the case instead of being so legalistic, and he
                    promised to discuss the case with Palmer at noon. The two Leichs were then to meet Davis in
                    Horne's office at 3:00.55
            
            When the brothers saw Horne, he insisted he had already met with Palmer the previous Saturday,
                    October 5, and had been instructed to defer action on the Leich case until March 1, 1919, and to
                    allow periodic extensions of the deadline thereafter. Home showed them an order to that effect,
                    dated October 5 and signed by Palmer. In turn, the brothers were asked to accept the service of
                    demand, even though "this was only to complete … [the bureau's]
                    records" and would not effect the Leich's title to the firm. On October 8, Davis
                    telephoned Clarence to assure him that nothing more would come of the matter. It seems possible that
                    Lansing's acquaintance with Clarence and his personal help on October 7 had influenced the
                    Alien Property Custodian, despite Horne's assurances that Palmer's decision on the
                    Leich case had been made earlier. It must also have been helpful that on Monday the State Department
                    had been informed the Central Powers had accepted Wilson's Fourteen Points, thus, for all
                    practical purposes, ending the war.56
            
            Shortly thereafter, both the Bureau of Trusts and the Bureau of Sales of the Alien Property Custodian
                    confirmed in writing the postponement of action on the Leich case. On October 17, Guffey informed
                    the company that Palmer's 
                        Washington
                     office had answered all the questions he had raised in his letter of October 5, thus
                    confirming that Horne 
                  
                     55 Herbert Leich, undated memorandum, Leich File. There was no
                            reference to this case in the minutes of the noonday meetings of Alien Property Custodian
                            officials, Records of the Office of Alien Property. Mr. Davis was no doubt J. Lionberger
                            Davis, managing director of the Alien Property Custodian's office.
                  
                     56 Herbert Leich, undated memorandum, Leich File. In the files of the
                            Alien Property Custodian, there is no written evidence of a conversation between Lansing and
                            Palmer or of Palmer's order dated October 5, although one suspects that there was a
                            telephone conversation or meeting between Horne and Palmer or between Palmer and Lansing on
                            October 5 or the morning of October 7. That the decision to defer action was made before the
                            Leich brothers visited Horne on Monday afternoon is reinforced by a letter from Horne to
                            Guffey, dated October 7, in which he informed Guffey of the decision to delay action. He
                            noted "Mr. Leich will call at this office today and we will obtain the service of
                            demand." Horne to Guffey, October 7, 1918. Alien Property Custodian, Bureau of
                            Administration, Daily Letter File, Box 63, Records of the Office of Alien Property.
               
                     had notified him of the decision of the Alien Property
                    Custodian. Neither the question of control of Charles Leich and Company nor the matter of
                    communication with Charles Leich, however, was fully resolved. An additional sum of
                    $300.00 was permitted to be sent to 
                        Germany
                     on October 25, but on January 13, 1919, Carl requested permission to send a message and
                    $1,000.00 more to his father, since he had been informed that the elderly gentleman
                    needed the constant attention of a trained nurse. In March, after having received no response,
                    Clarence wrote a similar request, only to be informed that with the cession of hostilities the
                    Bureau of Enemy Trade's jurisdiction in cases of communication with residents of 
                        Germany
                     had been transferred to the State Department. After forwarding the money through the
                    proper channels, Carl was notified by a second assistant secretary of state that the sum had been
                    sent via the American ambassador at Berne, 
                        Switzerland
                    , but only on the condition that Charles Leich return to the 
                        United States
                    , unless it could be shown that he was unable to leave 
                        Germany
                    ! Obviously ignorant of previous decisions regarding the condition of the
                    man, the State Department was also unable to indicate, until July 15, 1919, whether any messages had
                    ever actually been received by or sent from the elderly Leich. At that time it confirmed that his
                    health was failing rapidly, although he was well cared for.57
            
            The questions relating to control of the company were not so quickly resolved. The Leich brothers did
                    not receive formal receipts for their sisters' shares in the company, taken into custody by
                    Palmer in April, 1918, until May 20, 1919.58
                    
                  
                     57 H. [Henry] E. Ahern, Assistant Director, Bureau of Trusts, Alien
                            Property Custodian, to Herbert Leich, October 7, 1918; Herbert Leich [?] to Alien
                            Property Custodian, Bureau of Sales, October 11, 1918; Guffey to Charles Leich and Company,
                            October 17, 1918; McGonigal to Carl Leich, October 25, 1918; Clarence Leich to Bureau of
                            Enemy Trade, War Trade Board, March 4, 1919; William Phillips, assistant secretary of state,
                            to Clarence Leich, March 14, 1919; Clarence Leich to Phillips, March 18, 1919; Alvey A. Adee
                            to Clarence Leich, March 31, 1919; Adee to Clarence Leich, April 11, 1919; B. E. Long to
                            Clarence Leich, July 15, 1919, Leich File.
                  
                     58 H. [Harry] B. Caton to Charles Leich and Company, May 20, 1919,
                            Leich File. Although there is no evidence in the Leich File that the shares of the sisters
                            were ever returned, Alexander Leich recalls that the shares were returned sometime in the
                            mid-1920s (conversation with the author, February 27, 1974). It is important to note,
                            moreover, the comment of the Alien Property Custodian, Bureau of Corporation Management, on
                            the disposition of the father's interest: "This concern has been taken out
                            of our hands by the Bureau of Trusts, and we are advised to
               
                     It was not until March, 1922, that the claim on Charles
                    Leich's interest in the firm was lifted—Over three years after the end of the
                    war and two years after his death in late 1919. Memorialized in the 
                        Evansville
                    
                    Courier as "a good citizen and a good parent and a good member of the
                    community … [who] built up a reputation for honor and fair dealing and good
                        faith,"59 Leich was not so fortunate at the hands of the Alien
                    Property Custodian, a fact which few in 
                        Evansville
                    , including the Courier, knew. The custodian's claim on
                    Leich's share in the firm prevented the execution of his will until March 11, 1922, when
                    Alexander G. Bentley, head of the Division of Trusts, wrote that since it had finally been proved
                    that Charles Leich was an American citizen and that his heirs were therefore "eligible as
                    claimants under Section 9 of the Trading with the Enemy Act," the government had decided to
                    withdraw the demand" for custody of his share of the firm. Several times in the letter,
                    Bentley referred to Charles Leich as "the enemy." The effect of this decision,
                    Bentley informed the Leich brothers, was "to permit you and all others concerned to govern
                    yourselves with respect to that property without restriction from this office."60
            
            Although Charles Leich and Company survived its wartime threat from the federal government and
                    although the family was able to have some communication with the elderly gentleman, the bewildering
                    legacy of their struggle, like the legacy of the loyalty tests faced by thousands of other German
                    Americans, remained. So far as the Alien Property Custodian was concerned, Charles Leich died as an
                    enemy of the country in which he had held citizenship for over seventy years. When compared with the
                    enormousness of the war effort, both home and abroad, the Leich case might have 
                  that effect by Mr. Horne. The enemy interest is represented by an American caught in 
                                Germany
                            , and unable to leave on account of his health." The bureau also noted
                            that the Leich sons were loyal Americans. See Alien Property Custodian, Bureau of
                            Corporation Management, Liquidation Docket E 190, ca. 1920, Vol. I, Records of the Office of
                            Alien Property.
                  
                     59
                            
                                Evansville
                             (Indiana) Courier, December 30, 1919.
                  
                     60 Alexander G. Bentley to Clarence Leich, March 11, 1922, Leich File.
                            The Alien Property Custodian's claim on Leich's insurance policy had been
                            lifted on June 23, 1920. See. Volney McFadden, Chief of the Alien Property Custodian,
                            Division of Insurance, to 
                                Connecticut
                             Mutual Life Insurance Company, June 23, 1920, Alien Property Custodian, Bureau
                            of Administration, General Office File, Box 88, File 5107, Records of the Office of Alien
                            Property.
               
                     seemed trivial, but to Palmer's agency victory was
                    incomplete without control of even this small company. The problems faced by the firm, the sons, and
                    the father were partially the result of the broad definition of enemy given in the Trading with the
                    Enemy Act and partially the effect of Lansing's earlier insistence that the aged, infirm
                    man travel to a neutral country so that his income would not in any way aid the German government.
                    Yet, although certain federal departments—notably the State Department, the War Trade
                    Board, and the Internal Revenue Service—ultimately recognized the citizenship of the aged
                    man and made allowance for his plight, for some reason the Alien Property Custodian's
                    office continued to describe Charles Leich as an enemy even after it decided not to assume control
                    of his interest in the wholesale drug firm. If Leich had not been ill and aged, moreover, it is
                    possible that his fate, and that of his company, might well have been worse. It also seems clear
                    that the timely news of the German and Austrian peace overtures, as well as the relationship of
                    Clarence Leich to Robert Lansing, were of great value to the Leichs in their struggle with the
                    bureaucracy. The affair would not be forgotten by a firm established by a man who, at the age of
                    eighty-six, died in his native land as a presumed enemy of his adopted one and whose sons had to
                    undergo a series of challenges to keep in touch with him in his last days, uphold his honor, and
                    save the business he had founded. It is ironic that all this should have occurred shortly after
                    President Wilson, speaking on Memorial Day in 1916, had insisted that Americans should
                    "love the places of their birth and the sources of their origin. We do not wish them to
                    forget their mothers and fathers, running back through laborious generations, who have taken part in
                    building up the strength and spirit of other nations."61
            
            
               
                  61 Quoted in Frederick 
                            Franklin
                         Schrader, The Germans in the Making of America (
                            Boston
                        , 1924), 33-34.
            
         
         
         
            The Conine Family Letters, 1852-1863: "Just Think How We Are Scattered"
            Edited by Donald E. Baker*
            Contributed by Ruth Seymour Burmester**
            "But just think how we are scattered," Mary Ann Conine Seymour's
                    sister-in-law wrote in 1857,1 and Mary Ann must have reflected upon the aptness
                    of the remark. Her brother Horace Conine and her sister Emily Dorsey and their families were farming
                    in northeastern Indiana; her sisters Catharine Skinner and Clarinda Howard were in northern 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Wisconsin
                    , respectively; and she herself was in 
                  Sauk
                        County, Wisconsin
               , helping her
                    husband Silas J. Seymour make a thriving working farm of the prairie land he had taken up in 1849.
                    Only Mary Ann's younger sister Jane was still at home with their father Derrick Conine in 
                        Wyoming County
                    , western 
                        New York
                    , and 
                  * The editor expresses appreciation to Mr. Harry S. Douglass, historian of
                                    
                        Wyoming County, New York
                     ; Mr. Donald E. Poste, student of Free
                            Methodist history; Mrs. Evelyn L. Mottweiler, secretary-librarian of the Free Methodist
                            Historical Center, Winona Lake, Indiana; and, especially, Mrs. Ruth
                            Seymour Burmester for their generous and patient assistance in the editing of the Conine
                            family letters.
                  ** Ruth Seymour Burmester—Mrs. Chris Burmester of
                            Reedsburg, 
                                Wisconsin
                            —is the granddaughter of Mary Ann Conine Seymour, the recipient of
                            the Conine family letters. The complete, original Conine letters, in addition to
                            correspondence and other records of the family of Mary Ann's husband, Silas J.
                            Seymour, are in Mrs. Burmester's possession. This material is cited herein as the
                            Conine-Seymour Collection. The photographs which accompany the published letters were also
                            contributed by Mrs. Burmester.
                  
                     1 Horace and Mary Buckhout Conine to Silas and Mary Ann Conine
                            Seymour, January 11, 1857, printed below.
               
                     there were indications that Jane too was preparing to leave 
                        New York
                     for the West.
            Letters which the disperse members of the Conine family wrote to Mary Ann are now in the possession
                    of her granddaughter, Ruth Seymour Burmester of Reedsburg, 
                        Wisconsin
                    . Those written between 1852 and 1863 and published below, along with those written
                    between 1849 and 1851 and published in the December issue of the Indiana Magazine of
                        History,2 comprise a very personal record of domestic life in
                    midnineteenth century America. The subjects which occupied the Conines' attention in this
                    second group of letters, as in the first, are the everyday events of the farmhouse, school-house,
                    and meetinghouse, the three centers of pioneer life. The affairs of the hearth—marriage,
                    birth, the struggle for a livelihood, the hope of prosperity, death—are the constant
                    concerns of these narratives as they were of the writers' lives.
            One respect in which this second collection of Conine letters differs somewhat from that previously
                    published is the amount of attention given to religion. The church at Burke Hill in 
                        Wyoming County
                    , which Derrick Conine had helped build and which his family attended, was part of the
                    Methodist Episcopal Church's Genesee Annual Conference, a district troubled throughout the
                    1850s by conflict between conservative and liberal groups of clergy and laity. The conservatives,
                    called "Nazarites" by their opponents, felt that American Methodism's
                    ever greater accession of members, wealth, and influence during the first half of the nineteenth
                    century was being attended by increasing materialism and a dangerous blurring of the stark witness
                    of the earliest followers of John Wesley regarding purity of personal living, simplicity of worship,
                    and some points of Christian doctrine and experience. They vigorously set to work to stem
                    "the oncoming flood of worldliness,"3 forcefully denounced
                    what they saw as "an accommodating, compromising policy, pandering to the vices of the
                    times," and strenuously called for 
                  
                     2 Donald E. Baker, ed., "The Conine Family Letters,
                            1849-1851: Employed in Honest Business and Doing the Best We Can," Indiana Magazine of History, LXIX (December, 1973), 320-65.
                  
                     3 Edward P. Hart, "Introduction," in Wilson T.
                            Hogue, History of the Free Methodist Church of North America (2 vols., 
                                Chicago
                            , 1918), I, ix.
               
                     a return to the "old paths."4 For this they drew upon themselves the charge of fanaticism levelled by their more liberal
                    brethren, whose motives for opposition ranged from heartfelt disagreement on doctrine to fear that
                    the Nazarites' stringent rules of personal behavior and campmeeting revival methods would
                    "drive away men of influence needed tot the Church."5 During the early stages of this controversy, in 1853 and 1854, the Burke Hill
                    meeting was served by one of the foremost Nazarite preachers, William C. Kendall, who was assisted
                    during part of that time by his father-in-law John H. Wallace, a persuasive orator of the holiness
                    school. The letters of Jane Conine during this period give an intimate view of the influence of
                    Kendall and Wallace upon the Burke Hill congregation and, in particular, upon Jane herself, an
                    impressionable young woman of twenty.6
            
            The Conine family letters provide no deep insights into what many observers would consider the
                    important movements, events, and personalities of the day. Politics and politicians are completely
                    absent from the correspondence, for example, nor is there any mention of the burning issues of
                    slavery and sectionalism. Yet there is value in the letters' very ordinariness, in their
                    unwavering focus on their writers' day to day lives and concerns. From such testaments one
                    can begin to understand the essential character of that preeminent nineteenth century phenomenon,
                    the American pioneer.
            
               
                  4 Benjamin Titus Roberts, Why Another Sect: Containing a
                            Review of Articles by Bishop Simpson and Others on the Free Methodist Church (
                            Rochester
                        , N. Y., 1879), 85-96.
               
                  5
                        Ibid., 73. See also Leslie R. Marston, From Age to Age a Living
                            Witness: A Historical Interpretation of Free Methodism's First Century
                            (Winona Lake, Ind., 1960), 133-69; Walter W. Benjamin, "The
                        Methodist Episcopal Church in the Postwar Era," in Emory Stevens Bucke, ed., The History of American Methodism (3 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1964), II, 339-60.
               
                  6 The Nazarite controversy finally resulted in a full fledged schism in
                        the Methodist Episcopal Church and the formation of the Free Methodist Church on Nazarite
                        principles in 1860. Local Methodist Episcopal congregations split when many lay persons and some
                        preachers of Nazarite sympathies withdrew, or in some cases were expelled, and joined the new
                        denomination. About twenty-five people, including Delia Jeffres and other members of the Jeffres
                        family so often mentioned in the Conine correspondence, were "read out" of the
                        Burke Hill meeting. See Donald E. Poste, "Centennial of the First Free Methodist Church
                        of Perry," Historical Wyoming (21 vols., mimeographed/multilithed,
                        Arcade, N. Y., 1947-1968), XIII (April, 1960), 91. These later developments, which occurred
                        after Jane Conine left 
                            New York
                         for the West, are not chronicled in the Conine letters.
            
            
            The Conine Family Letters, 1852-18631
            
            
                    Jane Conine to Mary Ann Conine Seymour
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Perry [
                                    New York
                                 ]2
                              
                           
                                    Sep 15th 1852
                                
                        Sister. Mary.
                        Having come to the conclusion that you would like to hear from neighbors if you did
                                    not from us I concluded to write you a few lines If you should receive them please
                                    to notify the postmaster or some one else so that we may know I think we have
                                    recieved nothing from you since April. But you are onely acting under the Golden
                                    rule, but I'll tell you how it is if it was not Sunday I would runn over
                                    and give you the darndest scolding you ever had.
                        We are well and into the Plumbs up to our two Eyes we expect to have about 240 lbs
                                    Apples are not very plenty. Butter 14c in money at the door it has been very dry for
                                    a long time and Grasshoppers in abundance We have not had rain enough in our
                                    vicinity to lay the dust in nore than five 
                              
                                 1 The editing of the Conine family correspondence was
                                            accomplished using the original manuscript letters in the possession of Ruth
                                            Seymour Burmester, Reedsburg, 
                                                Wisconsin
                                            . The editorial practices which were followed are the same as
                                            those used in the editing of the previously published Conine letters. See
                                            Donald E. Baker, ed., "The Conine Family Letters, 1849-1851:
                                            Employed in Honest Business and Doing the Best We Can," Indiana Magazine of History, LXIX (December, 1973), 329n.
                                            In general it may be said that spacings and indentations have been
                                            standardized, that superfluous marks and obviously unintentional repetitions
                                            have been omitted, and that incorrect and phonetic spellings and erratic
                                            punctuation have been retained as found in the handwritten letters. Words
                                            underlined with a single stroke in the original documents have been
                                            transcribed in italics; words underlined with two strokes appear in small
                                            capital letters; words overlined with a single stroke appear in boldface
                                            type; words overlined with two strokes appear in italic large capital
                                            letters; and words overlined with three strokes appear in boldface large
                                            capital letters.
                              
                                 2 Jane Conine was the only one of Derrick
                                            Conine's children who was still at home in the Burke Hill area of
                                            Perry Township, 
                                    Wyoming County,
                                                    New York
                                 , in
                                            1852. All of the others had gone off to the West: Horace and his wife Mary
                                            Buckhout to near 
                                    Newville,
                                                    De Kalb County
                                 , Indiana,
                                            about 1846; Emily in the late 1840s to Scipio Township, 
                                                Allen County
                                            , Indiana, where she married John Dorsey in 1850; Catharine and
                                            her husband William Skinner to 
                                                Allen County
                                            , Indiana, about 1848, and then on to McHenry County, 
                                                Illinois
                                            , in 1850; and Clarinda and her husband Lyman Howard to 
                                                Wisconsin
                                             in 1850. The previous installment of Conine family letters
                                            ended with the marriage of Jane's next oldest sister Mary Ann to
                                            Silas J. Seymour, formerly of 
                                                Covington
                                             Township, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , in 1851 and her removal to his homestead in 
                                    Sauk County, Wisconsin
                                 . See Baker, "Conine Family
                                            Letters, 1849-1851," 320-65.
                           
                                     week untill yesterdy now it is wet enough (a
                                    fine time for drying fruit) Now I must tell you what I have got since you wer here
                                    (without doubt it will be very interesting) I had my dress last fall as you
                                    expected. In the spring a white silk bonnet a black cape & something to keep
                                    the sun off & last of all silver spoons. Now for the cost—first
                                    12… se[cond] 5… thi[rd] 41/2… fou[rth]
                                    18… fift[h] 101/23 & I feel as if I had
                                    earned the whole a quilt like D— J. [Delia Jeffres] I made last Spring
                                    & a fay mad Cucumber seeds4 you remember telling me
                                    about them Mother has been spinning all summer so you can guess what I have been
                                        about.5 But I must tell you what a compliment I had a few
                                    weeks ago Mrs Crouch said that if she could have mee with her Ase—
                                    [Asenith's] place would be almost if not quite filled & now I must
                                    confess I felt some what flatterd6 & furthermore she
                                    said if my Bonnet was not a wedding one it was a marrying off one but I am not very
                                    much alarmed about her prophesy 
                              
                                 3 The numbers in this sentence are very unclear in the
                                            original letter, and those printed here could be disputed. The amounts are
                                            probably in "shillings," which seem to have been the units
                                            the Conines customarily used in calculating prices and wages. The word
                                            shilling was used in 
                                                New York
                                            , as the word bit was used in the South and West, to denominate
                                            the value of 121/2 cents. See Neil Carothers, Fractional Money:
                                                A History of the Small Coins and Fractional Paper Currency of the 
                                                    United States
                                                
                                  (
                                                New York
                                            , 1930), 34-35.
                              
                                 4 It is clear from the appearance of the manuscript
                                            that Jane Conine was writing in haste. This and other sentences are
                                            obviously unfinished. Delia Jeffres was a daughter of Thomas H. and Palmyra
                                            Jeffres of Perry Township. She was about twenty-six years old in 1853.
                                            Others who can be identified as members of this family are Delia's
                                            brothers Christopher, Clarn, John, Ezra and Elam (twins), Eugene, and
                                            Thomas; her younger sister Frances; and Betsey, who may have been
                                            Delia's sister or perhaps sister-in-law. All except the younger
                                            Thomas Jeffres are mentioned, most of them more than once, in the letters
                                            which follow. The Jeffreses may be traced in U.S., Seventh Census, 1850,
                                            population schedules for 
                                    Wyoming
                                                County, New
                                            York
                                  (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. T-6,
                                            roll 239), 541; U.S., Eighth Census, 1860, population schedules for
                                                    
                                    Wyoming County, New York
                                  (National
                                            Archives Microfilm Publication No. 653, roll 883), 615, 655, 677, 681; U.S.,
                                            Ninth Census, 1870, population schedules for 
                                    Wyoming County, New York
                                  (National Archives Microfilm
                                            Publication No. 593, roll 119), Perry Township, 28. National Archives
                                            Microfilm Publication T-6, the 1850 population schedules, has been
                                            superseded by National Archives Microfilm Publication No. 432, under the
                                            same title, in which the schedules for 
                                                Wyoming County
                                             are on rolls 616 and 617.
                              
                                 5 "Mother" is Betsey Worden Conine,
                                            Derrick Conine's second wife and Jane Conine's stepmother.
                                            This is the first instance in the Conine correspondence of her being
                                            referred to by so affectionate a term.
                              
                                 6 At this point in the manuscript letter there follows
                                            a marked out line: "(what a pitty that some of the others did not
                                            think so.)" Mrs. Crouch was Mrs. Hiram Crouch of Perry Township.
                                            Asenith was her daughter. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 541.
                           
                                     as yet thare is no more signs of it than when
                                    you wer here onely that Ez [and] I are better
                                    friends & by the by he is sparking Em Patridge7 But now I want you to spop reading & put your dishes
                                    away & evry thing of that description for what I am going to tell you will
                                    so astonnish you that unless du precution is taken I am fearful of the consequences.
                                    Marrid on the 8 in[stant] by the Rev—, Mr. John Jenkens to Miss Elizabeth
                                    Chapel all of Perry8 Marrid on the 5 in by the Rev Mr Miller [,]
                                    Mr George Coelman to Miss Jane Bush of Ganesville9 they started
                                    amediately for 
                                        Ohio
                                     whare they intend to live if thay like10 the former
                                    couple went to Alexandre & wer marrid11 forom thare to
                                    James Ferguso[n]12 Gerome and Ma[r]ia are on hand yet &
                                    I think that will go off before long13
                                    
                              
                                 7 Ezra Jeffres seems to have been seeing Jane Conine
                                            before he turned his attentions to "Emely" Patridge,
                                            daughter of Betsey Patridge of Perry Township. See Mary M. Hitchcock to Mary
                                            Ann and Jane Conine, January 28, 1850, in Baker, "Conine Family
                                            Letters, 1849-1851," 350; U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 526, 536.
                              
                                 8 Elizabeth Chappell was one of the twelve children of
                                            Lyman and Betsey Chappell of Perry Township, later of 
                                    Avon, Livingston
                                                    County, New
                                            York
                                 . She was about twenty-seven years old in 1852.
                                            U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 543. Other members of the Lyman Chappell family
                                            mentioned in these letters include Maria, Mary, and Hannah.
                              
                                 9
                                            
                                                Gainesville
                                             is a township of 
                                                Wyoming County
                                             adjoining Perry Township on the southwest. There is also a
                                            village by that name within the township.
                              
                                 10
                                            
                                                Ohio
                                             must not have suited the Colemans. In 1860 they were back in 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , farming in Perry Township. U.S., Eighth Census, 1860, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 629. In 1863, after "a very clear
                                            conversion," George Coleman became an itinerant preacher in the
                                            Genesee Conference of the Free Methodist Church. In 1886 he was elected
                                            general superintendent of that denomination, an office the title of which
                                            was later changed to bishop. He retired in 1903 and died in 1907. See Wilson
                                            T. Hogue, History of the Free Methodist Church of North
                                            America (2 vols., 
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1918), II, 222-23. Although Derrick Conine "helped
                                            build the Methodist [Episcopal] Church at Burk[e] Hill, near where he lived,
                                            and was a consistent member thereof, until he died," Coleman
                                            conducted his funeral in 1882. See Ruth Seymour Burmester to Donald E.
                                            Baker, April 2, 1974, quoting an unmarked newspaper clipping in the
                                            Conine-Seymour Collection; and Harry S. Douglass, county historian of
                                                    
                                    Wyoming County, New York
                                 , to Donald E.
                                            Baker, September 5, 1973, citing the Perry (
                                                New York
                                            ) Herald, [August 11, 1882?].
                              
                                 11 Alexander is a village and a township in southern
                                                    
                                    Genesee County, New York
                                 , which borders 
                                                Wyoming County
                                             on the north.
                              
                                 12 A James Ferguson, a twenty-two year old bachelor
                                            farmer born in 
                                                Ireland
                                            , is listed in the 1850 Perry census. U.S., Seventh Census,
                                            1850, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 583. How he fits into Jane Conine's recital of
                                            marriages is unclear.
                              
                                 13 "Jerome Ferguson was born in Perry, in
                                            1822, and has been a life-long resident of the town, except three years
                                            spent in 
                                                Illinois
                                            . He was married in 1852 to Maria Chappell, daughter of Lyman
                                            and Betsy Chappell, of 
                                    Avon,
                                                    Livingston
                                            county
                                 ." F.W. Beers & Co., pubs., History of 
                                                    Wyoming County
                                                , N.Y…. (
                                                New York
                                            , 1880), 249.
                           
                                     John & wife are going [to] live in Pens [
                                        Pennsylvania
                                    ] L—Buckhout Fitch is down so we are looking for news from
                                    that quarter Emily Forbs starts for 
                                        Illinois
                                     to morrow Forbs has been thare during the summer John Jeffres has been
                                    studying with Esq Skinner but is now near 
                                        Albany
                                    
                           14 Adela has returned & purchased a one
                                    hundred [dollar] Diddle15 I have one to though not quite so
                                    expenive mine turns with a crank (you remember our paring machine) 1 am almost sick
                                    of mine & [would] sell it quite reasonable it never plays but one tune Nancy
                                    [Willes] is well16 Mary P— [Packard] is at home
                                    during confrence17 Dr Warner and son have died with the Cholera
                                    also Mr Chapin & daughter Mrs 
                                        Huntington
                                    
                           18 she left a child a few months old they had always
                                    lived at his fathers & he & child are thare yet.19 We would like to know 
                              
                                 14 Esquire Skinner may have been Judge John B. Skinner
                                            of Wyoming village, a man with "a State reputation as one of the
                                            ablest jurists of western 
                                                New York
                                            ." Beers, History of 
                                                    Wyoming County
                                                
                                 , 216, 224. Or he may have been Austin Skinner, a Perry
                                            farmer referred to as "Esq." in the local newspapers.
                                            Harry S. Douglass to Donald E. Baker, September 17, 1973; U.S., Seventh
                                            Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 536. It is not known whether either of these men was
                                            related to William Skinner, Catharine Conine's husband.
                              
                                 15 As a verb, diddle has several meanings, one of them
                                            being to waste time in trifling. Jane Conine seems to have made the word a
                                            noun to denote the trifle with which the time was wasted, apparently a music
                                            box. "Adela" may refer to Delia Jeffres, as
                                            "Adelia" does in Jane's letter of May 24, 18[55],
                                            printed below.
                              
                                 16 Nancy Willes and her sister Lucy, along with Delia
                                            Jeffres, Mary M. Hitchcock, Mary W. C. Packard, and Mary Coleman, were the
                                            closest girlhood friends of Mary Ann and Jane Conine. They are all mentioned
                                            frequently in the Conine correspondence.
                              
                                 17 Mary W. C. Packard was married to Loren Packard, an
                                            itinerant Methodist Episcopal minister. See Nancy Willes to Mary Ann Conine
                                            Seymour, April 1, 1852, and Mary W. C. Packard to Mary Aim Conine Seymour,
                                            May 25, 1853, Conine-Seymour Collection in the possession of Ruth Seymour
                                            Burmester, Reedsburg, 
                                                Wisconsin
                                            ; and Ray Allen, A Century of the Genesee Annual
                                                Conference of the Methodist Episcopal Church, 1810-1910 (
                                                Rochester
                                            , N.Y., 1911), 109, cited in Harry S. Douglass to Donald E.
                                            Baker, September 17, 1973, wherein all subsequent references to the Allen
                                            volume may also be found.
                              
                                 18 Three 
                                                Wyoming County
                                             newspapers—the Attica Atlas, the 
                                                Warsaw
                                            
                                            Wyoming County Mirror, and the 
                                                Warsaw
                                            
                                            Western New-Yorker—reported this outbreak of
                                            cholera. Willard J. Chapin, a tanner and currier in Perry village, and his
                                            daughter Caroline, the wife of Dr. T. Romayn 
                                                Huntington
                                             of Perry, were reported to have contracted the disease in 
                                                Rochester
                                            . The newspapers stated that both died on July 28, 1852, though
                                            Mrs. Huntington's marker in Hope Cemetery, Perry, gives the date of
                                            her death as July 22. Another victim of the epidemic was Samuel Melcher,
                                            about twenty-five years old, also of Perry. Harry S. Douglass to Donald E.
                                            Baker, September 17, 1973; U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 564, 567.
                              
                                 19 Dr. T. R. Huntington's father was Dr.
                                            James 
                                                Huntington
                                            , another Perry physician. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 562.
                           
                                     what has become of [Lyman and Clarinda Conine]
                                    Howards family20 O! how I would like to be in house
                                    to day it rains in torents & I am home sick enough I asshure you Wahat I
                                    shall do next winter is uncertain but I trust nothing very bad I went to see Frank
                                    Rawson a few weeks ago at 
                                        Covington
                                     center21 he is in his brotherin-laws store Now I
                                    think of an other wonderful transaction Marina Rawson & L—
                                    Crandel wer [married] last spring22 that was a dreadful match
                                    Derrick Vanslyke is building a new house so father has had a call23 also Mr & mrs Tompkins have condecended to stoop so lo as to enter
                                    our portals Gerome has just gon past he is growing more & more devout he is
                                    as smart a young man as we have here that so he even surpasses our Abner but I expct
                                    he and I will fall in love one of these days. Silas it is very much such a day to
                                    day as when you wore fathers small coat how I wish you wer hear to put it on to
                                    night
                        Tuesday mor
                        Father is goin to Perry so I must bring my letter to a close I[f] you write any thing
                                    particulal about mother put it on a sepperate piece for she sometimes wants to see
                                    the letters but be shure and send some good word to her or you will be sorry Electa
                                    is here with me and says she is ag[o]ing to write to you Write all about L. Howard
                                    & amediately.
                        
                           
                              20 In 1850 Derrick Conine's eldest daughter
                                        Clarinda had emigrated with her husband Lyman Howard and their children to
                                        Milwaukee, 
                                            Wisconsin
                                        . A year later they moved to Dellona, 
                                            Sauk County
                                        , near Silas and Mary Ann Conine Seymour, and then in 1853 they
                                        moved once more, this time to 
                                            Newport
                                        , a river town not far from present 
                                            Wisconsin
                                         Dells (then called 
                                            Kilbourn City
                                        ). Ruth Seymour Burmester to Lorna Lutes Sylvester, December 13,
                                        1972, files of Indiana Magazine of History, Indiana
                                        University; Ruth Seymour Burmester to Donald E. Baker, September 17, 1973.
                           
                              21
                                        
                                            Covington
                                         Center was the principal settlement in 
                                            Covington
                                         Township, 
                                            Wyoming County
                                        . J. Disturnell, pub., A Gazetteer of the State of
                                            New-York …(
                                            Albany
                                        , 1842), 135.
                           
                              22 Marina Rawson was a daughter of Zenas and Harriet
                                        Rawson of Perry Township. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                            Wyoming County
                                        , N.Y., 537. Prank Rawson, mentioned above, may have been her
                                        brother. L. Crandel, the other half of the "dreadful match,"
                                        has not been identified. He may have been a brother of Romelia Crandell, a
                                        circlet of whose hair, very intricately braided and formally presented as a
                                        "token of regard," is among Mary Ann Conine Seymour's
                                        papers in the Conine-Seymour Collection.
                           
                              23 Derrick 
                                            Van
                                         Slyke may have been a son of Henry and Hannah 
                                            Van
                                         Slyke of Perry Township. Other 
                                            Van
                                         Slykes mentioned in these letters were members of that family.
                                        U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                            Wyoming County
                                        , N.Y., 538. The 
                                            Van
                                         Slyke and Conine families were related, Derrick Conine's
                                        half sister Anna having married a 
                                            Van
                                         Slyke. Ruth Seymour Burmester to Donald E. Baker, November 8,
                                    1973.
                        
                        
                        You must excuse all mistakes for I have not time [to] look it over
                        
                                    Yours in haste
                                    Jane the forgotton
                                
                        I wrote on two differrent [sheets] through mistake
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Horace Conine to Mary Ann Conine Seymour
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    I dont know what day becauseMyron has torn the Almanac24
                           
                                    
                              Newville [Indiana]
                           
                                    Dec. — '52
                                
                        Dear Sister!
                        I have concluded to send you a wee bit of a scrawl, though you have never written to
                                    me and perhaps never mean to, but if you don't you need not be surprised if
                                    I should be after knowing the reason
                        I suppose you know where we live (or rather stay) if not, it is Newville De Kalb Co
                                    Ind; Address Hicksville Defiance Co. O. We are all in the enjoyment of tolerable
                                    health. I suppose you have learned that Jane [Conine] and Lydia [Buckhout]25 pounced upon us a few weeks ago and bore off our Berton. The
                                    Yorkers rather boast of the success of their foray, but I intend at the
                                    "return of the year" to start an expedition to recover the
                                    plunder.
                        I obtained a sight of your letter to Emily26 and can but
                                    conratulate you in the prospect of plenty, and the finest girl 
                              
                                 24 Horace Conine's son Myron 
                                                Washington
                                            , sometimes called Milo, was one year old. U.S., Seventh Census,
                                            1850, population schedules for 
                                                De Kalb County
                                            , Indiana (National Archives Microfilm Publication No. 432, roll
                                            142), 409. Horace's other children mentioned or alluded to in this
                                            letter are Horace Burton, born in 1846, and Mary Augusta, born in 1848. It
                                            is interesting to note that when Horace Conine was drafted during the Civil
                                            War he hired his unmarried son Burton to serve in his place. Mrs. Vera
                                            Husted Wilcox of Hicksville, 
                                                Ohio
                                            , a great granddaughter of Horace Conine, owns a letter written
                                            from Horace to his son Burton before Burton's discharge in 1865.
                                            Vera Husted Wilcox to Indiana Magazine of History, May 13,
                                            1974. Myron Conine's eldest child, Roscoe Conine, lives in
                                            Hicksville, 
                                                Ohio
                                            , and was 100 years old on October 25, 1973. Ruth Seymour
                                            Burmester to Donald E. Baker, March 1, 15, 1973; April 2, 1974.
                              
                                 25 Lydia Buckhout was a sister of Mary Buckhout,
                                            Horace Conine's wife. Ruth Seymour Burmester to Donald E. Baker,
                                            February 12, 1973.
                              
                                 26 Emily Conine and her husband John Dorsey lived on a
                                            farm in Scipio Township, 
                                                Allen County
                                            , Indiana, just south across the county line from Horace
                                            Conine's home in Newville Township, 
                                                De Kalb County
                                            .
                           
                                     in 
                                        Wisconsin
                                    , though I can but think that were it here it must rank 2nd.27
                        
                        I cannot really boast of our crops though we have no reason to complain. I had 440
                                    bush, wheat[,] of corn rather less than common, potatoes and other sass plenty.28
                        
                        John's folks [the Dorseys] are tolerably well though he is not very rugged
                                        yet29
                        
                        I want you to write a long letter, tell all that's good about your country,
                                    nothing bad
                        Give my compliments to your husband though I should'nt know him from a side
                                    of sole leather, but can but hope that he is no very relation of Bill Skinner or
                                    Lyme Howard.
                        I think you have about enough of my nonsense so I will bite off. It is almost dark
                                    and I have to watch with a sick neighbor to night.
                        
                                    Sincerely your friend & brothe
                                    Horace Conine
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Jane Conine to Mary Ann Conine Seymour
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              [postmarked Perry Center, 
                                    New York
                                 ]30
                              
                           
                                    March 18th 1853
                                
                        Dear sister, Mary
                        I have been looking for a letter from you, for many months past, but have been
                                    disappointed, for not one have I obtained the cause is unknown to me. The idea
                                    suggests itself perhaps they have forgotten you. if so I will try to bring myself
                                    again to you[r] remberance I answered yours soon after I returned from Indiana, but
                                    not one word have I heard from you since. I must confess that I feel a little piqued
                                    at so long 
                              
                                 27 Mary Ann Conine Seymour's daughter Ellen
                                            Augusta, who Horace Conine felt should "rank second" to
                                            his own Mary Augusta, was born on July 19, 1852. Geo. A. Ogle & Co.,
                                            pubs., Memorial and Biographical Record and Illustrated
                                                Compendium of Biography … of Prominent Old Settlers and
                                                Representative Citizens of 
                                                    Columbia
                                                , Sauk and Adams Counties, 
                                                    Wisconsin
                                                 … (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1901), 235.
                              
                                 28 Sass is a dialectical term for garden vegetables.
                              
                                 29 John Dorsey's health began to fail after
                                            he had "a dreadful time" in 1851 with, apparently,
                                            abscessed teeth. See Emily Conine Dorsey to Mary Ann and Jane Conine,
                                            [August 23, 1851], in Baker, "Conine Family Letters,
                                            1849-1851," 356.
                              
                                 30 Though Perry village was the largest settlement in
                                            Perry Township, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , the village of Perry Center was nearer the Conine home. In the
                                            previous decade it had consisted of a Presbyterian church, a tavern, two
                                            stores, and twenty-five or thirty houses. Disturnell, Gazetteer
                                                of the State of New-York, 320.
                           
                                     a delay, but enough of this. We are usually
                                    well Father was hurt by a horse but is able to be about. We are having a series of
                                    [religious] meeting here they have been five weeks now & expect them to
                                    continue longer Mr William Kendall is the preacher in charge & has done most
                                    of the preaching.31 He marrid Marth Wallace.32 they have been marrid about two years. I love them as I do my own relatives
                                    none ever have expressed more intrest for me than they, it has caused a little
                                    jealousy with some. They have labored faithfully with 
                              
                                 31 William C. Kendall was a Methodist Episcopal
                                            minister "in hearty sympathy with the holiness revival which was
                                            sweeping over Western 
                                                New York
                                             and other sections of Methodism, and on this account was
                                            classed with the 'Nazarites,'" those preachers
                                            who felt that the Methodist Episcopal Church had strayed from the Wesleyism
                                            of their fathers and who declared themselves on the side of "vitalized religion …." Hogue, History of the Free Methodist Church, I, 51, 81. Wherever
                                            he served, Kendall encouraged "revivals," evangelical,
                                            enthusiastic meetings such as those Jane Conine mentions in this letter,
                                            which were intended to bring participants "into the enjoyment of
                                            entire holiness." It is said that during his service on the 
                                                Covington
                                             Circuit, of which the Conines' church at Burke Hill
                                            was a part, "multitudes were saved." Kendall was ill used
                                            by the leadership of the Genesee Conference of the Methodist Episcopal
                                            Church, who were not sympathetic to the Nazarites' insistence upon
                                            strict adherence to all the forms of outward rite demanded by
                                            "primitive" Methodism, including simplicity of dress,
                                            proscription of instrumental music and choirs in the churches, and,
                                            especially, "fervency in worship." Year by year Kendall
                                            was assigned to less desirable pastorates and in the 1857 annual meeting of
                                            the conference he was formally charged with preaching
                                            "inacceptable" doctrine. The charges were held over to the
                                            next annual conference, by which time Kendall was dead, a victim of typhoid
                                            fever at age thirty-five. After his death "those who had been his
                                            violent persecutors seemed to vie with each other to do honor to his
                                            memory," while his followers placed the following inscription on
                                            his tombstone: "Our pastor—simple, earnest, fearless,
                                            ever-toiling, ever-happy. He fell as a martyr, he died at his
                                            post." B. T. Roberts, Why Another Sect: Containing a
                                                Review of Articles by Bishop Simpson and Others on the Free Methodist
                                                Church (
                                                Rochester
                                            , N.Y., 1879), 70-82; Donald E. Poste, "Centenary of
                                            Free Methodism, 1860-1960," Historical Wyoming,
                                            XIII (April, 1960), 70-71, 76-79. See also Leslie R. Marston, From Age to Age a Living Witness: A Historical Interpretation of Free
                                                Methodism's First Century (Winona
                                            Lake, Ind., 1960), 189-91, 198-201.
                              
                                 32 Martha Wallace married Kendall in the fall of 1850.
                                            A daughter of Methodist minister John H. Wallace (see footnote 34), Mrs.
                                            Kendall was an influential exemplar of the Nazarite spirit in her own right.
                                            After her husband's death she played an active part in the
                                            formation of the Free Methodist Church and later married Thomas S. LaDue,
                                            "one of Free Methodism's greatest pioneer
                                            preachers." Hogue, History of the Free Methodist
                                                Church, I, 375; II, 17. See also Marston, From Age to
                                                Age a Living Witness, 199n; Benson Howard Roberts, Benjamin
                              
                           
                                     me & it was necessarie. I had become
                                    hard, in sin, and Satan was unwilling to looss so good an advocator of his cause. I
                                    have served him faithfully, but his ranks are thined in this community & I
                                    with many others have at last revolted instead of fighting for him I am ready with
                                    all the strength that God imparts to me to oppose him. I have no longer a will of my
                                    own I have dedicated my all to God & I have the ashurance the[t] it is
                                    accepted. Long have I felt the need of a friend to whome I could go in the hour of
                                    trouble [,] one that would impart to me words of consolation & I praise the
                                    name of God to day that I have found that friend [,] that I have him even in my
                                    heart & I have no fear of his taking his departure so long as I trust in
                                    him. The arm of God is not shortened that he cannot save, no, no he is able
                                    & willing to save all that will come to him, but we are commanded to ask if we would receive; if we would be forgiven
                                    of our sins we must plead with him to bestow that pardon upon us &
                                    O! how willing he is to receive us he stands even now
                                    with out stretched arms waiting to embrace us. why do we delay, just now venture all
                                    upon him. he will save you. methink I here you say, I believe it. but again many
                                    difficulties arise up before you. It is religion that you need to
                                    enable you to overcome. God has said my grace shall be sufficient for you &
                                    again if God is for me who can be against me.33 we shall be
                                    brought off more than conquer through him who died for us. knowing that tribulation
                                    work for us a far more exceeding & eternal weight of glory. I would that you
                                    could enjoy the privileges of meetings as I have done of late. I have been to
                                    meeting evry night but three with[in] the last five weeks & nearly half of
                                    the time during the day. By the kindness of friends I was permitted to enjoy severel
                                    sermons delivered by 
                              
                                 Titus Roberts, Late General Superintendent of the Free
                                                Methodist Church: A Biography (North Chili, N.Y., 1900), 51-52.
                                            That Martha Kendall was the daughter of John H. Wallace is verified in U.S.,
                                            Seventh Census, population schedules for 
                                    Clinton County, Michigan
                                  (National Archives Microfilm Publication
                                            No. T-6, roll 143), 95. (In National Archives Microfilm Publication No. 432
                                            the population schedules for 
                                                Clinton County
                                             are on roll 349). See also Evelyn L. Mottweiler,
                                            Secretary-Librarian of the Free Methodist Historical Center,
                                                Winona Lake, Indiana, to Donald E. Baker, March 7,
                                            1974.
                              
                                 33 See II Corinthians 12:9; Romans 8:31.
                           
                                     the Rev J H Wallace34 at Mt
                                        Morriss.35 I thare saw Mr Barney36
                                    & spent some little time at his house; conversing with Mr Wallace. Mr
                                    & Mrs Kendall wer desirous that such an interview should take place, he
                                    lectured me soundly I confess & I think it was beneficial, thare was no less
                                    than four ministers & Mrs Kendall & severel other to hear him I felt
                                    perfectly at home, which was contrary to my previous expectations. Thare has been
                                    severel united to the church [,] among the number Mr [and] Mrs Tillon,37 Lucy Willis, Mrs George Coleman & Ezra J— [Jeffres]
                                    is marrid to Em P— [Patridge]. I know not but what you have returned to
                                    you[r] father['s] house whare thare is bread enough & to spare I
                                    hope it is so. If not I pray Gods spirit to attend what I have written & it
                                    prove a blessing unto you
                        
                                    Jane Conine
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  34 John H. Wallace "was a specially able advocate of the doctrine
                        of holiness" and a preacher of "great ability and usefulness."
                        Roberts, Why Another Sect, 307. Emily Conine carried the memory of
                        Wallace's oratory with her to the frontier (see Emily Conine to Mary Ann Conine,
                        [Autumn, 1849], and February 2, 1850, in Baker, "Conine Family Letters,
                        1849-1851," 338, 352), and his influence over Jane Conine is well illustrated in the
                        letters which follow. He assisted his son-in-law, Kendall, on the 
                            Covington
                         Circuit during 1853. In 1857 Wallace was expelled from his conference on charges of
                        adultery with his housekeeper during the long insanity of his wife. After he thus
                        "grievously fell," he "again sought the Lord with great
                        earnestness" and before his death in 1864 "gave every evidence of having been
                        restored to his favor." Buffalo (
                            New York
                        ) Earnest Christian, February, 1864, quoted in Donald E. Poste to
                        Donald E. Baker, March 4, 1974. See also Allen, Century of the Genesee Annual
                            Conference, 127; Poste, "Centenary of Free Methodism," 70; and
                        Francis W. Conable, History of the Genesee Annual Conference of the Methodist
                            Episcopal Church, From Its Organization by Bishops Asbury and M'Kendree in 1810, to
                            the Year 1884 (2nd ed., 
                            New York
                        , 1885), 625-26, cited in Donald E. Poste to Donald E. Baker, February 23, 1974.
                        Conable, writing after the Nazarite controversies had culminated in the formation of the Free
                        Methodist Church, attempted to link Wallace with the Nazarite leadership. One of the founders of
                        the Free Methodist Church resisted any association of Wallace with the origin of that
                        denomination, declaring that Wallace "had no more relation to it than other men had who
                        preached holiness before it was thought of." Roberts, Why Another
                        Sect, 307-308.
               
                  35 Mt. Morris is in 
                     Livingston
                            County, New York
                  , which borders 
                            Wyoming County
                         on the east.
               
                  36 George W. Barney of Mt. Morris was an active conservative Methodist
                        layman. See Donald E. Poste, "Centennial of the First Free Methodist Church of
                        Perry," Historical Wyoming, XIII (April, 1960), 89.
               
                  37 The Tillons were probably James Tillon, Jr., and his wife Elizabeth.
                        U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                            Wyoming County
                        , N.Y., 528.
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        D. [Delia] Jeffers & her father have eperienced the blessing of holiness.38 Write me immediately tell Fanny [Howard] that I shall write
                                    to her soon.39 Catharine [Conine Skinner] is comming down next
                                        fall.40 My love to Silas & a kiss to the little
                                one
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Jane Conine to Mary Ann Conine Seymour
                    41
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Perry [
                                    New York
                                 ]
                           
                                    July 20 18[5]3
                                
                        Dear brother & sister,
                        Doubtless you have long since thought yourselves forgotten by us; but thare I [am]
                                    happy to say, you labour under a mistake I have but <to> plead guilty
                                    for not writing you before, you feel as I often do. What if their work does hurry
                                    them, they might spend an hour in writing to one with whome they formally loved so
                                    well to converse. But now I will try to give you a short history of myself &
                                    employment of late We keep four cows: you well know on whome the house work depends,
                                    so you can imagine what I have to do in that line. I have [Horace's son]
                                    Burtons sewing & my own to do & a part of fathers. Then I am making
                                    me a carpet, go to school at 1/2 pa[s]t 3 to recite in French.42
                                    now you may laugh if so inclined at this last, as your thoughts carry you 
                              
                                 38 Thomas H. Jeffres became a prominent lay spokesman
                                            in the Nazarite movement. Delia Jeffres became one of the original faculty
                                            of the Free Methodists' Chili (later A.M. Chesbrough) Seminary,
                                            which opened in North Chili, 
                                                New York
                                            , in 1868. She left a reputation not only as "a very
                                            competent" but also as "a very godly" teacher,
                                            "one who left her impress for good on all who came under her
                                            instruction." In 1869, at age forty-two, she married Thomas B.
                                            Catton, "one of the strong pillars of Free Methodism" and
                                            one time Prohibition candidate for the office of lieutenant governor of 
                                                New York
                                            . Hogue, History of the Free Methodist Church,
                                            I, 203, 215, 348; II, 309-10; Perry (
                                                New York
                                            ) Herald, June, 1909, cited in Harry S.
                                            Douglass to Donald E. Baker, September 5, 1973.
                              
                                 39 Fanny Howard, born in 1839, was the oldest of the
                                            nine children born to Lyman and Clarinda Conine Howard. Ruth Seymour
                                            Burmester to Donald E. Baker, March 1, 1973. Other references in the Conine
                                            correspondence suggest that communication between Clarinda and the rest of
                                            the Conine family was either through one of her daughters or through Mary
                                            Ann Conine Seymour.
                              
                                 40 Letters written by Catharine Conine Skinner from
                                            Indiana and 
                                                Illinois
                                            , 1848-1850, appear in Baker, "Conine Family Letters,
                                            1849-1851," 329-36, 354-55.
                              
                                 41 The original draft of this letter was in ink, but
                                            several words and punctuation marks have been inserted on the manuscript in
                                            pencil, presumably by Jane Conine. The editor has enclosed such additions in
                                            pointed brackets.
                              
                                 42 Since there was at this time no academy within
                                            "commuting distance" of the Conine home, Jane Conine was
                                            probably attending a private school, several of which were established in
                                            Perry Township between 1820 and 1870. See Frank D. Roberts and Carl G.
                                            Clarke, History of the Town of Perry, 
                                                    New York
                                                
                                  ([Perry, N.Y.], 1915), 109-11.
                           
                                     back to Wyo. when I did not get one perfect
                                        lesson.43 But now it <is> easy & I
                                    love it. It is now 15 minutes after 3 & <as> I have my lesson
                                    to look over, you will have to excuse me. At home again, now all this I have to do.
                                    my health is far from good this summer, father & mother are both complaining
                                    so I have to keep as still as possible. We have had a campmeeting in what used to be
                                    Mr John Hitchcock woods, he sold this last spring <,> to Mr Bratt
                                    & prowidence permitting we expect another next year. The Lord dealet
                                    graciously with us. we have enjoyed within the past six months greater privileges
                                    than we ever did before. Are we truly thankful to God who giveth us His blessings
                                    are questions which I am often asking my own heart. I feel to night that I have no
                                    will of my own, & that I am whol<l>y the Lords. This is not
                                    only the privilege of all but the duty.
                        Since writing the above, I have been quite unlucky last F[ri]day while picking
                                    cherries the limb broke that I was on & I fell. I have no
                                    reco<l>lection of the limbs breaking<,> or of going into
                                    the house. When mother found me I was on the lounge. It was not long however before
                                    I came to my self. I fell on my left side, was considerably injured<;>
                                    principally externally I am much better now, but not fully recovered O!
                                    how I missed your kind attention. I was able to wait upon myself excepting the first
                                    day, or<,> I did it<,> whethe<r> I was
                                    able to or not. We are repairing our meeting house painting it out side &
                                    in; don some plastering; fixed the pulpit, & think it will look much better
                                    when completed. Mrs Jeffres is quite unwell, she has been failing for severel
                                    months; her recovery to us<.> looks doubtful<;> but she
                                    is in the hands<,> of an Omnipotant being, one who will do all things
                                    well. When <I> write, <or> think of the
                                    mercy<,> the goodness<,> of God I am
                                    fil<l>ed with wonder & love & praise. I feel truly
                                    that "the love of christ doth me constrain, To seek the wandering souls of
                                    men. With prayers entreaties tears to save To snatch then from the gaping
                                        grave.["]44 & these feelings as christians
                                    we 
                              
                                 43 "Wyo." refers to 
                                                Middlebury
                                             Academy in the village of Wyoming, 
                                    Wyoming County, New York
                                 . Mary Ann Conine had
                                            attended school there in 1849. See Catharine Conine Skinner to Mary Ann
                                            Conine, January 5, 1849, in Baker, "Conine Family Letters,
                                            1849-1851," 330. Apparently Jane Conine had also attended
                                            "Wyo."
                              
                                 44 Except that she substitutes
                                            "prayers" for "cries," Jane Conine is
                                            here quoting the second stanza of the hymn "Saviour of Men, Thy
                                            Searching Eye," written by Johann Joseph Winckler, translated by
                                            John Wesley, and sung to the tune "Gilford." See A Collection of Hymns, for the Use of the Methodist Episcopal
                                                Church, Principally from the Collection of the Rev. John Wesley,
                                            A.M. (
                                                New York
                                            , 1847), 402-403; John
                           
                                     aught to possess. I do not believe that they
                                    are confined<,> simply<,> to ministers, or their wives, but we can all feel as great an
                                    interest for the salvation of our fellow being & work
                                    ofttimes as effectually, for them, as though we occupied a more exalted position. Do not imagine by what I have writen that I think myself
                                    called to preach<,> or to be a preachers<,> wife, far from it: but my prayer is<:> Lord enable me to
                                    fill well the position thou designest for me. I never feel more at
                                    home, than when endevouring (not in my own strength) to prsent the trouths of God to
                                    the yet unconverted. O! I do rejoice to night that I
                                    ever sought & obtained an intrest in the saviors blood. O! how
                                    freely was that blood spilled for us & how oft have we trampled upon it;
                                    & said "we would not have this man Christ Jesus to rule over us.
                                        ["]45 I felt last winter before the protracted
                                    effort commensed; at times the strivings of the spirit of God but like many others I
                                    was putting it [off] untill a more convenient season. These words truly represent my
                                    case for a few weeks. "Satan has desired to have you that he may sift you
                                    as salt.["]46 I was entirely in his power: he had but
                                    to isue his mandate & it was obeyed. When I felt the strivings of the spirit
                                    of God, I only laughed the hearder[,] saught more earnestly to obtain happiness in
                                    the vainity of earth. At the first meeting I felt two spirits contending with me,
                                    & felt that I was called upon to decide my eternal destiny. I saw plainly my
                                    position, the consequences of my deciding. O! you cannot imagine what I
                                    endured, for nearly two week I remained in this state. Bro—Kendall plead
                                    with me, others conversed but still I was unwilling to give up all for Christ
                                    & truly speaking, I think I suffered more than to die a natueral death. I
                                    remember of saying to Bro K at one time, I am diing by inchies. He laughing said
                                    that is just what we want, die to sin that you may live unto God. At this point I
                                    had given up all but one thing. When ever I attempted to pray that article was hung
                                    up to my view & I would close my mouth instantly, deeming it but mockery to
                                    attempt to worship God, while concious of retaining an other idle. Bro—
                                    K— had conversed with me with regard to it, but I positively declared
                                    that I could keep it & use it & more than that I would
                                        do it. thare was no hurt 
                              Julian, A Dictionary of Hymnology: Setting Forth the Origin
                                                and History of Christian Hymns of All Ages and Nations (
                                                London
                                            , 1908), 1286-87.
                              
                                 45 This is a paraphrase from Luke, 19:14.
                              
                                 46 See Luke, 22:31: "And the Lord said,
                                            Simon, Simon, behold, Satan hath desired to have you, that
                                            he may sift you as wheat."
                           
                                     in it, I was able to have it & I should
                                    keep it. At one time while forward for praye[r]s he knelt by me & asked me
                                    this question: are you willing to give up your jewelry. I thought a moment &
                                    told him I was. to him I simply said, I am, but in my heart I
                                    added a little condition to, it, which was this. I am, "if I cannot obtain
                                    religion without it.["] religion I felt I must have at all events, but I
                                    would try & keep all of the worlds fooleries with it that I could. Instead
                                    of doing as we are commanded, to give our hearts unto the Lord, I was keeping back a
                                    part of the price rserving a spot where on to cultivate pride, but atlength the
                                    point was gained. The Pencil was given up for it [was] no more nor less than a gold
                                    pencil that caused me all this.47 How often do we hear people
                                    say they would not exchange their hope for worlds like this. The devel well know how
                                    to takee us, not by presenting the world in a lump but by showing us a few of its
                                    glitering toys. Lord help me to withstand time & space will not permit of my
                                    writing more. Let me hear forom you soon, inform me with regard to your spiritual
                                    state aswell as temporal
                        
                                    Jane C
                                
                        My writing so much about myself perhaps will not make my letter very
                                    interesting to you. These wer my exercise with regard to justification. Those for
                                    sanctification wer if possable more severe48 He did graciously
                                    lead me on step by step & by him I humbly trust I am still gurded
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  47 John Wesley, in his sermon "On Dress," denounced the
                        wearing of rich clothing, expensive adornment, and gold ornamentation on the grounds that such
                        things engendered pride, vanity, and anger; tended to create and inflame lust; and diverted the
                        Christian's attention from the divine to the profane. See John Wesley, Sermons on Several Occasions (3 vols., 
                            New York
                        , 1818), II, 423-33. Until 1856 the Methodist Episcopal Discipline charged
                        Methodists to "receive none into the church till they have left off superfluous
                        ornaments" and ordered ministers to read Wesley's sermon "at least
                        once a year in every society." By the 1850s, the extent to which preachers insisted on
                        compliance with this rule was one of the characteristics which distinguished Nazarites from
                        their more liberal colleagues. In 1856 the Discipline was altered so that the explicit
                        prohibition of costly array was dropped and the required reading of Wesley's sermon was
                        replaced by a recommendation that "all our people be exhorted to conform to the
                        spirit" of simplicity of dress and adornment. Nazarites regarded this change as one of
                        several indications of the increasing worldliness of the Methodist Episcopal Church. See
                        Marston, From Age to Age a Living Witness, 146-49. Marston quotes the
                        Discipline on page 147.
               
                  48 Methodism from Wesley's time had "maintained the
                        distinction between justification, wherein power is received to live without committing sin, and
                        entire sanctification, where the inner impulses to sin are purged away." By the
                        midnineteenth century liberal churchmen were inclined to regard sanctification as something
                        acquired gradually through self discipline, and they favored admitting
                        "seekers" into full Methodist fellowship. Conservatives regarded
                        sanctification as an instantaneous "work of grace through the Holy Spirit changing the
                        core of a man's being," and they wished to make evidence of the
                    possession
            
            
            
                    Jane Conine to Mary Ann Conine Seymour with a postscript from Derrick Conine
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Perry [
                                    New York
                                 ]
                           
                                    Nov 6th /53
                                
                        Sister. Mary.
                        The reception of yours of the 15th gave us much pleasure, we had almost dispared of
                                    hearing from you but as fate would have it, we wer doomed to disapointment, even in
                                    that, & should providence dispense the like unto us a little oftner we would
                                    not object. We are enjoying our usual health. With the exception of a severe cold, I
                                    am much better than I was last spring. I am very buisy just now: making
                                    preperations, for school. Lucy Willes, Martha Rawson,49
                                    & myself intend to spend a few months at Wyoming, [
                                        Middlebury
                                     Academy,] this winter.50 It would be useless to
                                    give you a description of my employment; you having passed through the same years
                                    ago it would be an old story. Mothe[r] starts for 
                                        New York
                                     one week from to morrow, in company with Mr & Mrs Buckhout, to
                                    be gon about two weeks."51 Father would go to see 
                              of "perfect love" a prerequisite for admitting a person
                                            to full fellowship. This difference in attitude toward sanctification was
                                            the doctrinal heart of the Nazarite controversy and was reflected in the
                                            strict rules for membership adopted by the Free Methodist Church after its
                                            establishment. See Walter W. Benjamin, "The Methodist Episcopal
                                            Church in the Postwar Era," in Emory Stevens Bucke, ed., The History of American Methodism (3 vols., 
                                                New York
                                            , 1964), II, 339-60, especially pages 355-58, where the words
                                            quoted above may be found. Benjamin's essay contains a short,
                                            balanced history of the conflict in the Genesee Conference and the
                                            organization of the Free Methodist Church, which concludes that both
                                            "Methodist Episcopal and Free Methodist partisans shared the guilt
                                            for the rupture" (p. 358). Roberts, Why Another
                                            Sect; Hogue, History of the Free Methodist Church;
                                            and Marston, From Age to Age a Living Witness are fuller
                                            accounts of the schism, from the Free Methodist point of view. For a history
                                            of the development of the doctrine of entire sanctification, see John Leland
                                            Peters, Christian Perfection and American Methodism (
                                                New York
                                            , 1956).
                              
                                 49 Martha Rawson, fifteen years old in 1853, was a
                                            daughter of Zenas and Harriet Rawson of Perry Township and a sister of
                                            Marina Rawson (see footnote 22, above). U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 537.
                              
                                 50 There is an account of a visit to Jane Conine and
                                            Lucy Willes at "Wyo." in Nancy M. Willes to Mary Ann
                                            Conine Seymour, January 26, 1854, Conine-Seymour Collection.
                              
                                 51 Mr. Buckhout was probably Philip Buckhout, who was
                                            doubly related to the Conines. His first wife, Mary Worden Buckhout, who
                                            died in 1842, had been a sister of the second Mrs. Derrick Conine, and his
                                            daughter Mary was married to Horace Conine. The Mrs. Buckhout mentioned in
                                            this letter would have been Philip Buckhout's second wife, Phebe.
                                            See Ruth Seymour Burmester to Donald E. Baker, February 12, 1973; Harry S.
                                            Douglass to Donald E. Baker, September 5, 1973; U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 418.
                           
                                     Aunt Catharine, if he knew whare to find her,
                                    but as it is I think he will stay at home.52 I feel quite
                                    anxious to attend school this winter but thare is something of a dread in connection
                                    with it. if I could but learn easily, I would not fear; but as it is, it requires
                                    greater application. If I could learn as fast as Horace's Burton I would
                                    not stop short of a thorough education when he came here, he could only read in
                                    words of three letters, he went home in July & could then read well in
                                    Sanders 2. he was a much better schollar than Adelbert W Horace & Mary
                                    [Conine] wer down in July. Our folks have just gon to eavning meeting, from which I
                                    am dtained on acount of my cold. We are highly favored, this year as regards, our
                                    preachers. We have Mr Wallace & Kendall, the former is much smarter, than he
                                    used to be. he has preached here three times, & stayed with us to nights, we
                                    have our preaching at 2 O['clock] & they usually stay over night,
                                    it was W— turn to preach to day but he was not able to come.
                                    O! how I love to talk with him. the last time he was here, we had quite a
                                    talk about dress & & you know he is an old hand at, THAT, so I did not stand much of a chance but I done the best I could, he
                                    laughfed at me, considerable, & finally asked if [I] would not take a text
                                    & preach & (dont you think I was naughty enoughf) to tell him, that
                                    I did not think, I had any call, or I would. I wonder that he & Kendall do
                                    not both get discouraged with me. but I guess he has not, for he
                                    went from our house, to John Saffords & told him he should see me again.
                                    O! I love him. I have great confidece, in his jugment,
                                    but still I do not agree, with him, in all his opinions, but I
                                    have a firm belief that God will enlighten me, with regard to them. I feel that I am, highly favored, in enjoying the society of so deeply pious a
                                    person & I trust I shall prove myself worthy his attention. We have been
                                    repairing our Church, taken the pulpit down, pa[i]nted & varnished the seats
                                    & papered the wall & got window courtains & painted the out
                                    side, & done some carpeting, so that with all it presents quite a differant
                                    appearance than formaly. Death has been in our land & numbers have been
                                    called to try the reality of eternity. Mary A Vanslyke died in July, with the
                                    Dropsay. she left a bright evidence that she had gon home to glory, 
                              
                                 52 Derrick Conine's sister Catharine, born in
                                            1790, "was said to have lived on Long Island." Ruth
                                            Seymour Burmester to Donald E. Baker, August 31, 1973.
                           
                                     but it has not made that impression upon the
                                    family that we hoped it would Harried Gardner or Mrs P— died with the
                                    Typhoid fever Mrs Luther Worden with the same Miss S Long was just alive the last I
                                        heard.53 Mr Martain while going west on a visit was thrown
                                    from a stage & injured & a fever setting in, he lingered a few
                                    weeks, & was brought home a corps.54 Mr Kellog that
                                    lived on the Carpanter place, started from home well, went into a store in Leroy55 & dropped down dead, cause by disease of the heart,
                                    truly in a day & hour when we think not the son of man cometh56
                        
                        
                                    Jane
                                
                        I was very much obliged for those flower seeds. Your little one is as pretty as
                                    ever I suppose, be careful not to make it an idle. The Lord gave & he has
                                    power to take away. Write soon. Dear child you wished me to rite A few
                                    lines to you well I hardly [know] what to rite to you I am well and hope you am in
                                    Joying the same blesing and I hope that you am dewing well[,] that is striving to
                                    lay up your t[r]esher in that beter world ware sorrow and dis apoint ment will not
                                    come in this world sorrow rains and I sometimes think that I s[h]all fall by the
                                    hand of my enamy but then when I realise whare my strenth comes from I am stil
                                    incureged to try to live A cristin one thing I am sure of[,] that if I am saved it
                                    will be throu grate tribulateo[n] for in this part of the world thare is many stormy
                                    days but the lord has sed that his grace was supfishent for all that put thare trust
                                    in him57 I want to sea you and silas and that eair [that is,
                                    heir] of yours But wether I shall have that previelige or not I dont no some times I
                                    think A bout comeing out but when I think of the distance I give it up but if I
                                    never sea you A gain in this world dew try my children to meat me in the world A
                                    bove I ask no more I remane your farther and friend
                                    D Conine
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  53 Sarah E. Long, aged twenty, lived in Perry Township with Luther D.
                        Worden and his wife Sarah, aged twenty-four. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                            Wyoming County
                        , N.Y., 537.
               
                  54 Mr. Martain may have been John Martin, aged fifty-two, who died October
                        12, 1853, and is buried in Prospect Hill Cemetery, Perry Center. Harry S. Douglass to Donald E.
                        Baker, September 17, 1973.
               
                  55 The village of Le Roy is in 
                            Genessee County
                        , which adjoins 
                            Wyoming County
                         on the north.
               
                  56 See Luke, 12:40.
               
                  57 See II Corinthians, 12:9.
            
            
            
                    Emily Conine Dorsey to Mary Ann Conine Seymour
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              [postmarked Halls Corners, Indiana58
                              
                           
                                    Dec. 17] [1853]
                                
                        Dear brother and sister
                        Having a few leisure moments I improve them in writing to you. I suppose you have
                                    been expecting a letter for some time I aught to have written sooner but have not
                                    time. We are enjoyin very good health at present John's health is much
                                    better than it was in the fall. Sis talks qu[i]te pla[i]n and goes to school some,
                                    for by the by I am engaged in school again59 I have a girl who
                                    pretends to do the [house] work but dear me! it requires the patience of
                                    Jobe! William [Skinner] was here a few days since he was well and left
                                    his family so. We heard from home a short time since all well Jane is attending
                                    school at Wyoming. Mary 
                                        Van
                                     Slike is dead and Luther Warden's wife. Horace and family have
                                    been home this fall. Aunt Bets was very generous for she sent me just nothing at
                                        all60 Father strained his rigging and [sent] 2 yds of
                                    shilling calico but enough of this.
                        Wheat was good[,] corn frst rate we had an ear that measured 13 inches. You wrote
                                    about your tall corn but if it beat ours it must have got up pretty tol. I never saw
                                    such corn. Potatoes fine We have the largest Turneps I ever saw and a lot of them
                                    Wheat fetches a good price it is said to [be] $1.40 per bushel.
                        I dont think of any thing to write that will be interesting; if I could see you we
                                    would have a long chat I assure you I hope you will come and see us if you dont I
                                    fear we shall not see each other very soon William's folks [William and
                                    Catharine Conine Skinner] talk some of visiting you this winter 
                              
                                 58 Hall's Corners was a post office in 
                                                Springfield
                                             Township, 
                                                Allen County
                                            , Indiana. Brant & Fuller, pubs., Valley of
                                                the Upper Maumee River, with Historical Account of 
                                                    Allen County
                                                 and the City of 
                                                    Fort Wayne
                                                , Indiana … (2 vols., 
                                                Madison
                                            , Wis., 1889), I, 351.
                              
                                 59 "Sis" refers to Emily Conine
                                            Dorsey's daughter Mary Delucia, who was born in December, 1851.
                                            Ruth Seymour Burmester to Lorna Lutes Sylvester, December 13, 1972, files of
                                            the Indiana Magazine of History. Emily had previously
                                            taught school in Scipio Township, 
                                                Allen County
                                            , Indiana, in 1849 and 1850. For a description of her teaching
                                            experiences at that time see Emily Conine to Mary Ann Conine with a
                                            postscript to Jane Conine, [Autumn, 1849], and Emily Conine to Mary Ann
                                            Conine, February 2, 1850, in Baker, "Conine" Family
                                            Letters, 1849-1851," 336-41, 351-54.
                              
                                 60 "Aunt Bets" is one of Emily
                                            Conine Dorsey's names for her stepmother, Betsey Worden
                                        Conine.
                           
                                     Give my love to Clarinda and answer this letter
                                    if you can read it
                        
                                    Emily Dorsey
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Jane Conine to Mary Ann Conine Seymour with a postscript from Derrick Conine
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Perry [
                                    New York
                                 ]
                           
                                    Feb 13th /54
                                
                        Dear Sister.
                        It is with pleasure that I perused your letter I had almost concluded that we wer
                                    forgotten & at times my meditation on the subject wer none of the pleasantest. I came home [from
                                    "Wyo."] the 17th & shall providenc permitting return to
                                    morrow. I am very much pleased with my school. Mr Weed is principal.61 We room in Mrs Hedges house & could not have been better
                                        situated.62 We engaged a room of Mr Havens but owing to some
                                    misunderstanding we wer disappointed, when Mr Willes went down with the stove
                                    & wood I went to whare our room was it wasnt thare. Mr H— he met
                                    with the Rev Mr Wahles[?] pastor of the ME Church in that place &
                                    with whom I had had some acquaintance, & with the united
                                    efforts of latter & Mrs Havens we procured our present abode & for
                                    which I feel truly greatful but enough of this. I enjoy myself well this
                                        winter—so well that I shall coax hard to morrow
                                    morning for the privilege of staying another term, four weeks more closes this. My
                                    health is good[,] much better than when I am working as hard as I can
                                    dip[?]intoit. As my time [is] limited I must not stop upon any one point
                                    it is now allnost meeting time Asenith [Crouch] is not well & it is supposed
                                    has the Consumption.63 Marshal Skinner is no-more he was
                                    deranged the most of the time during his illness 
                              
                                 61
                                            
                                                Monroe
                                             Weed, a graduate of 
                                                Madison
                                             University, was elected principal of 
                                                Middlebury
                                             Academy in 1852 and remained for fourteen years. Beers, History of 
                                                    Wyoming County
                                                
                                 , 218.
                              
                                 62 Jane Conine's landlady was probably Ruth
                                            Hedges, wife of Stephen Hedges, a tailor in Wyoming village. U.S., Seventh
                                            Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 474, 477. "About all the families took borders
                                            at 
                                                Middlebury
                                             [Wyoming] village …. Board at first [about 1819] was
                                            a dollar a week, then $1.25, $1.50, $2.00
                                            and finally $2.50, illustrating the great law of
                                            progress." Beers, History of 
                                                    Wyoming County
                                                
                                 , 219.
                              
                                 63 Asenith Crouch died of consumption (tuberculosis)
                                            in April, 1854. See Naomi Seymour Morgan's postscript in Susan
                                            Seymour to Silas and Mary Ann Conine Seymour, April 17, 1854, in Burmester,
                                            "Silas J. Seymour Letters (III)," 
                                    
                                                    Wisconsin
                                                 Magazine of History, XXXII (June, 1949), 471.
                           
                                     & died with a hope of heaven.64 O! Lord spare yet a little longer the youth at
                                    B— [Burke] hill for peradventure they will repent, these words for weeks
                                    have been my constant companions "Tis not the all of life
                                    to live Nor all of death to die,"65
                                    & I would that I lived more in accordance with this trouth. Clarn &
                                    Delia [Jeffres] wer here last eavning. C— has started again to serve God.
                                    we are not having any special meetings but the Lord is at work, he can work
                                    & none can hinder. Mary Chappel has come out QUITE decided
                                    to be for the Lord, for nearly a year she has been trying to pray & to live,
                                    or what would better express it serve the Devel publicly & the Lord in
                                    private, knowing about whare she stood I had felt uncommonly solisitous for her. She
                                    is going home with us to spend a few days. Mrs Jeffers it is supposed is as well as
                                    she will be. her limbs still remain numb, wer it not for this she would be
                                    comfortabel George Coleman has a daughter & so has Betsy Jef—. I
                                    have an abundance to tell you did time permit. I would like to know when you think
                                    of comming home. I would like to he[ar] something about that. Nancy [Willes] has
                                    written so lately that I suppose some of the above is not knews. They appear to like
                                    their mother very well66 I never have spoken to her yet.
                        Do write oftener.
                        
                                    Yours &
                                    Jane.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  64 Marshall Skinner, oldest son of Austin and Harriet Skinner of Perry
                        Township, died of typhoid on December 8, 1853. A notice of Skinner's death in the 
                            Warsaw
                         (
                            New York
                        ) Western New-Yorker seems to have been the only contemporary
                        public mention of the typhoid outbreak in Perry in the winter of 1853, an outbreak which Jane
                        Conine's previous letter suggests was extensive. Harry S. Douglass to Donald E. Baker,
                        September 17, 1973; U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                            Wyoming County
                        , N.Y., 536.
               
                  65 With one slight error, Jane Conine is quoting a line from the second
                        stanza of a poem by James 
                            Montgomery
                         called "Life and Death,— Time and Eternity" or
                        sometimes "The Issues of Life and Death": 
                     
                        "Oh, where shall rest be found,—
                        "The world can never give
                     
                     
                        Rest for the weary soul?
                        The bliss for which we sigh;
                     
                     
                        'Twere vain the ocean's depths to sound,
                        'Tis not the whole of life to live,
                     
                     
                        Or pierce to either pole:
                        Nor all of death to die."
                     
                   T. Nelson & Sons, pubs., Poetical Works of James 
                                Montgomery
                            : With Life (
                            London
                        , 1863), 422. The poem appears as a hymn in an old Methodist hymnal—one
                        lacking a title page and otherwise unidentified as to date of publication—in the
                        Indiana University Library, 
                            Bloomington
                        .
               
                  66 Jane Conine is here referring to Nancy and Lucy Willes'
                        stepmother. Their father, Joshua Willes of Perry Township, had recently remarried after the
                        death of their mother. The change, Nancy wrote, "cost me many a tear." Nancy
                        M. Willes to Mary Ann Conine Seymour,
            
            
            
                    
                  
                     
                        if you can read this you will deserve praising I wish you could try my pen I have not
                                    been to spelling schools lately. Suppose probily you disciver that
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Perry
                           
                                
                        Dear children
                        I wold take this opertunity to rite A few lines to you to let you kno that we am well
                                    at present we have had A very plesent winter but very litel snow the wether is very
                                    change abel Some days very cold and then very warm it is now A ginerel state of
                                    heath but stil many have died and some very suden[,] some in three days and some in
                                    one weak and some have falin down and died instanously but stil we live weat is
                                    worth 2 dolers A bushel Corn six shilings oats 4[?] silings the lord is
                                    stil with us hear Ealom Jeffers has expearincd religon and so has mary Chapel
                        I wold like to have you rite me what land is worth ware [Lyman] howerd is and how
                                    much of A place he has takin up and wether it wold b[e] worth wile to by A place for
                                    the children to work and wether thar is A prospect [it] wold rise so as to be beter
                                    property than mony on intrust I shold like to no wether liman has any team or not or
                                    wether his farmily is nothing but A crambery pach so that he can live on berys if he
                                    has got A good place and cant pay for it I dont no but I may pay forit for the
                                    children but not for him but you nead not say any thing to him to that afect un les
                                    they am liked to be turnd of[f] and loos [it] then rite to me if it dont cost tow
                                    much I may by et67 I think now that Shold I live and nothing
                                    hapin that is no misfortin that I sail come out A year from next fol or spring if
                                    ever rligon stil prospers here yet last sunty nite we had one of the best of
                                    meatings for the lord was thare sister Colman got so fild with the love of god that
                                    she shouted with all hur mite and declaerd to the world that the lord had saved hur
                                    from hur sins the work of the sank ty fieng power of god is going on in the church
                                    this winter more than I ever new it 25 in mosco have expearenceid 
                              January 26, 1854, Conine-Seymour Collection. The trauma Mary Ann and Jane
                                            Conine experienced under similar circumstances is a principal theme of the
                                            Conine family letters through 1851.
                              
                                 67 The value of Lyman Howard's real estate,
                                            as recorded in the 1860 census, was $1,300. This seems to have
                                            been comparable to the value of his neighbors' farms. U.S., Eighth
                                            Census, 1860, population schedules for 
                                    Columbia County, Wisconsin
                                  (National Archives Microfilm Publication
                                            No. 653, roll 1401), 470.
                           
                                     the blesing68 we have
                                    Brother wales and kendel for our preachers and they p[r]each the hole gospel with
                                    all thare mite wen I begin to rite on the subject of religon I dont no ware to stop
                                    but I must so good by for the present
                        
                                    D Conine
                                
                        If riches in creas set not your affecttions on them oanly hold them as blesings
                                    from the lord and yous them for his glory make religon the mane bis ness of life and
                                    then you will be safe and if death shold close up your life you will go to rest rite
                                    soon and rite all the nuse Jane had A leter from [Clarinda Conine] Howards girl and
                                    she rote that hur mother sed she suposed that farther dident want to hear from hur
                                    wy she s[h]old think so I dont no without it is that I dont like limes
                                        calculation69
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Emily Conine Dorsey to Silas and Mary Ann Conine Seymour
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Scipio [postmarked
                                 
                                    Fort Wayne
                                 , Indiana]
                           
                                    March 28th 1854
                                
                        Dear sister
                        This evening finds me a lone, therefore I shall spend a few moments by writing to
                                    you. We are glad you have not forgotten us as we had begun to think Is not this a
                                    blessing that we can hear from each other though we are not permited to see each
                                    other. My health is good and has been for the most part of the winter Mary is quite
                                    well now, she has been sick a good deal this winter. John's health is poor
                                    and I fear is like to remain so This is the evil wind which blew me again into the
                                    school room. You know we have the school-house under our nose. I am to have
                                    $48 for 12 weeks work. If we could have had good girls it would not have
                                    been bad 
                              
                                 68 Moscow was a village in 
                                    Livingston County, New York
                                 , across the 
                                                Wyoming County
                                             line to the east. The Methodist church there, like that at
                                            Burke Hill, was part of the 
                                                Covington
                                             Circuit, served at this time by the Reverends Kendall and
                                            Wallace. Poste, "Centenary of Free Methodism," 70.
                              
                                 69 If Lyman Howard was calculating on the future
                                            prosperity of the village of 
                                    Newport, Wisconsin
                                 , near which his farm was located, then his
                                            father-in-law was right to be suspicious, though Howard was not alone in his
                                            hopes and in his eventual disappointment. Believing that the Milwaukee and
                                            La Crosse Railroad would cross the Wisconsin River at
                                            the townsite, 1,200 people settled in the village in the early 1850s.
                                            However, the railroad bypassed 
                                                Newport
                                            , and by 1868 "the last traces of the former
                                            glory" of the town "were wiped out." Western
                                            Historical Company, pubs., The History of 
                                       Sauk County, Wisconsin
                                     … (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1888), 636-37. See also Ruth Seymour Burmester to Donald E.
                                            Baker, February 6, 1973.
                           
                                     at all, 5 weeks of the time I done my own
                                    [house] work for I would not [hire girls] any more. Dear me if I could not do more
                                    than some of the girls here I would not impose upon people so much as to offer my
                                    self
                        Horace and family are well. They are to build a new house next summer. He has gone to
                                    town today to buy nails, glass and all such things. He is doing first rate. William
                                    [Skinner] has been down twice this winter buying horses. I dont know but he makes it
                                    profitable. I would not like to have John gone from home so much
                        I have not heard from home for a long time, they as you say have joind the Quakers
                                        perhaps70 I hope you hear oftener
                        We had the most freezeing wether last winter that has ever been known in these parts
                                    Potatoes suffered extremely, we have lost all of half of ours. Wheat look bad a great many fields will be plowed up. We are thankful that
                                    ours looks good. We have got along well considerin John's poor health,
                                    better than could be expected. I dont know but I should be too happy if he could
                                    regain his health.
                        I wish you lived here I think you would like it better but Silas dont think so I
                                    suppose. Just come out here and then you will know. We want very much to see you all
                                    but fear we shall not unless you make us a visit. Dont you think of
                                    coming? We had a young winter last night but it is all most gone. You see
                                    I did not finish writing in the evening as I expected for the boys got home from
                                    [Fort] 
                                        Wayne
                                     sooner than I expected and it is almost impossable to do so now for sis
                                    is such a little mischief. Her father bought her a toy Parrot which takes up part of
                                    the time My thinking cap is off so you must excuse me. Give my love to Clarinda and
                                    the children.
                        
                                    Emily Dorsey
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Brother Silas
                        I was in hopes John would f[i]ll this page but he declines, he wishes me to inform
                                    you of the prices: Wheat $1.30 Corn '48. Oats '35
                                    Potatoes '45 Beef '6, per pound Pork '4.71 he also wishes me to ask you to state your prices, and 
                              
                                 70 This is an ironic allusion to the Quakers'
                                            practice of having no talk or other breech of quiet in their worship
                                            services until some member of the meeting felt moved to break the silence
                                            and speak on some matter of concern.
                              
                                 71 It appears that Emily Conine Dorsey is using single
                                            quote marks (reverse apostrophes) to indicate cents.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              Top, HORACE AND MARY BUCKHOUT CONINE
                              Middle, DERRICK AND BETSEY WORDEN CONINE
                              Bottom, SILAS AND MARY ANN CONINE SEYMOUR
                           
                                     how wheat look in your part of the country. We
                                    want to know if you keep Sheep yet or if they can be kept and whether cattle do well
                                    with you and their rate. With us they are very high Oxen first rate from
                                    $100, to $105, Cows 20, 25, 30. John sold 6 head last fall and
                                    winter 1 yoke of cattle[,] 1 of 3 year old steers and 1 of 2 years we have left 4
                                    cows 4 two year old steers 1 yearling and 3 calves. We have horses now instead of
                                    Oxen. You will think this a botched up mes but I guess you can read it and I hope
                                    you and Mary will take time soon to answer this.
                        
                                    E. D. D
                                
                        We want to know how far you are from market
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Jane Conine to Mary Ann Conine Seymour
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              [postmarked
                                 
                                    Covington, New York
                                 ]
                           
                                    June 13th [1854]
                                
                        Finds me the sole occupant of our little room, "the south chamber."
                                    it looks very much like old times, so much so that I think you could feel quite at
                                    home here. O! those wer happy days! but we knew it not, then
                                    as now. sweet yet painful reccollections, are they. Truly has it been said of life,
                                    "tis a dream" when I detect myself living those days over, for a
                                    moment I almost think I an dreaming, but a second thought remooves this delusion and
                                    numarous[?] facts present themselves to prove it a reality. For some
                                    reason I feel wonderfully iritable to night & noise confuses me.
                                    how! I wish our folks would stop talking & take a journey to the
                                    land of Nod. I may attribute my feelings to my rather poor health the same reason
                                    answers for my being at home now. I only stayed half of the spring term. I have a
                                    pain in my head the most of the time & I find rest quite beneficial. I have
                                    had to much to do since I came home for my good but hope now that house cleaning is
                                    through with to give more attention to myself. I am but a poor peice of machinery
                                    & I think I am concious that even now the material is on the decay. My head
                                    aches so Mary I shall have to leave this until an other time. It is only in the back
                                    part that I feel the pain & that at times becomes almost numb. I never have
                                    said anything to our folks about it & ought not to have writen it to you.
                                    dont give yourself any uneasiness about it. I am quite confident of feeling better
                                    ere long. Good night Mary & may we both arise on the morrow with renewd
                                    strength.
                        
                        PS You would say I had my "above" wish could you but hear father
                                    snoar.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    June 14th
                                
                        Again will spend a short time with you, Mary. on reviewing the above I am surprised
                                    at the sickliness of the language, writing from the impulse of the moment is a bad
                                    practice for one of my temperament, but enough of this. We are to have a
                                    Camp-meeting to commence July 5th on the same ground occopied last year.
                                    Notwithstanding Rev Wallace tells me I had better run away just bfore that time, I
                                    am looking forward to it with much pleasure: he says it will be to hot for me, and
                                    the like of that. How I do love that man. yes love him. all of
                                    that, you know I always did. [You] know how peculier he is with regard to dress,
                                    well he has brought a good share of the church over to his belief, & the way
                                    he & they pelt away upon me is truly astonashing.72 evry
                                    whare I meet him I receive chastising. It is said to be really laughable to see
                                    & hear us to gether. he so stern & sober, & of myself it
                                    will be unnessary to say any thing to you, but I make it a rule never to leave
                                    untill his phir contracts. I am surprised that he should take such an intrest in one
                                    like myself, how I wish you could have heard him pray for me two weeks ago tomorrow
                                    night. I almost played the woman under that prayer. Mary, I do
                                    dress plain, waring no ornaments of any description neither do I want to, but there
                                    is a certain few who have imbibed the belief that we must not ware a bit of edging
                                    & triming of any kind & because I WILL, believe me
                                    to be almost a monster. I think some go a little beyond the pictures [sic]: but having a larger cloak of charity than they, [I] admitt that I
                                    think them concencious. I am confident that in their treatment of miself they have
                                    my good in view. Delia Jeffers has even taken the fring[e] off from her window
                                    curtains now I love Delia & believe her to be one of the best of christians
                                    but I cannot see as she does about such things. I am for doing [my] duty &
                                    when I am convinced that the Lord requires such thing I hope to be found willing to
                                    perform. This will seem different to you than it would if 
                              
                                 72 The campaign of Kendall and Wallace for simplicity
                                            of dress among the people of their circuit had received extra impetus on
                                            March 19, 1854, when Kendall, in compliance with the Discipline, read
                                            Wesley's sermon on dress to the Conine's congregation at
                                            Burke Hill. See Poste, "Centenary of Free Methodism,"
                                            70-71.
                           
                                     you wer here & heard our preaching
                                    & k[n]ew the whole circumstances. The church is far more spiritual than when
                                    you wer here, we are highly favored with ministers, there is but few like Wallace
                                    & Kendall. My heart faints within me wehen I think of Conference. I dislike
                                    the Methodist on this account; they are forever changing
                                        ministers.73 I wish I was able to keep a stationed one of my
                                    own. now dont you laugh at this, for I am in earnest & I will tell you who
                                    it s[h]ould be. Nobody in all the world but Wallace, he seemes so adapted to my
                                    wants so capable of importing instruction. You will see plainly that I am completely
                                    infatuated, no that is not the correct term. No it is nothing more or less than a
                                    childs affection toward a parent. Allow me here to imagine what you will say[:]
                                    "Long is the road which has no end," &
                                    "you'l sing another song" & & &
                                    Now I would not be surprised if I did get mad at him. he told me not long since that
                                    he found it nessesary to make some people MAD before he could do
                                    them any good. Now I am doing wrong in filling this letter with such uninteresting
                                    matter! but trusting for forgiveness for this offence will merely say
                                    that should we both live I intend to write you again in the course of the year. A
                                    new idea has just entered my craniun, which is this, that you give me a plan for my
                                    next, this a capital hit, then you will be shure of SOMETHING
                                    interesting. Now comes the News Girl. What will you have first in her line of
                                    business. 'Echo' answers marriages. Samuel Fergason is to be or
                                    rather was to be m[a]rrid this week74
                                    now I donot think of any more, it is rather of a still time just
                                    now. How surprised I was to hear of Emilines death.75 I did not
                                    know of her sickness untill I heard of her death I attended her funarel she looked
                                    sweet even in death. As I gazed upon her placid countinance I 
                              
                                 73 The Methodist Discipline allowed the bishop
                                            presiding at each regional annual conference to "fix the
                                            appointments of the preachers, provided he shall not allow any preacher to
                                            remain in the same station more than two years successively; … he
                                            shall not continue a preacher in the same appointment more than two years in
                                            six; nor in the same city more than four years in succession; nor return him
                                            to it, after such term of service, till he shall have been absent four
                                            years." The Doctrines and Disciplines of the Methodist
                                                Episcopal Church (
                                                Cincinnati
                                            , 1853), 40-41.
                              
                                 74 The only Samuel Ferguson found in the 1850 
                                                Wyoming County
                                             census was sixty-five years old and already married. U.S.,
                                            Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 537.
                              
                                 75 Emeline was Silas J. Seymour's youngest
                                            sister, about seventeen years old in 1854. Ibid., 397;
                                            Ruth Seymour Burmester to Donald E. Baker, August 31, 1973.
                           
                                     thought of you Mary & our last parting.
                                    God grant that it may not be our last. The text was, Let me live the life of the
                                    rightious that I may die their death.76 Elizabeth [Chappell]
                                    Jenkens is spending the summer at home. She has a fine boy. they think of going west
                                    this fall Mr Danoldson has sold & moved to Reeds for the present.77 Clarn Jeffers has bought & lives where Mr Taylor did
                                    & a young Mills occupies Mr Strongs place. Nancy & Lucy [Willes]
                                    appear quite w[e]ll pleased with their new mother. Mrs Jeffer's health is
                                    very poor, she cannot moove her feet at all. at times she suffers much pain
                                    & then again for weeks is quite comfortable. Fathers health is quite poor.
                                    Mother's about as usual. I am anxiously watching those seeds of your or
                                    rather my plants.
                        Again I sit me down to write you. I had left this for father but his head aches so
                                    the [sic] authorizes me to write for him. he feels a little
                                    anxiety about your railroad business.78 We hope it will be
                                    diferent with you than it is here. Here such property is considered of just no value
                                    at all, but perhaps yours is diferently invested (You know we are not for ventureing
                                    much) If you would not consider us out of place we would like to have you state more
                                    particularly about it. Now dont think us wishing to pry into your affairs, it is
                                    only a little anxiety for you & more so on account of the failure of like
                                    attempts here.79 Father is excusable for not writing, this was
                                    not his intention untill now.
                        
                           
                              76 See Numbers 23:10.
                           
                              77 Solomon Donaldson and his wife Jane had lived next door
                                        to the Conines. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                            Wyoming County
                                        , N.Y., 543.
                           
                              78 Silas J. Seymour, like many of his neighbors, mortgaged
                                        his farm to help finance the Milwaukee and La Crosse Railroad, which was
                                        projected to be built through their neighborhood. When the enterprise failed,
                                        some of the farmers lost their land. Silas was more fortunate, keeping his farm
                                        though losing $900. In 1879 he was appointed by the governor of 
                                            Wisconsin
                                         to be one of the commissioners of the 
                                            Wisconsin
                                         Railroad Farm Mortgage Land Company, which had been set up to
                                        dispose of lands previously owned by the railroad company for the benefit of the
                                        mortgagors. See Western Historical Company, History of 
                                                Sauk County
                                            
                              , 747; Ogle, Memorial and Biographical Record
                                            … of 
                                                Columbia
                                            , Sauk and Adams Counties, 235; Ruth Seymour Burmester to
                                        Donald E. Baker, March 1, 1973. Derrick Conine made no secret of his feelings
                                        about his son-in-law's venture. When Silas' father paid
                                        Derrick a visit, Derrick made it plain that he "thought that Silas had better let rail road stock
                                            alone." Naomi Seymour Morgan's postscript in Susan
                                        Seymour to Silas and Mary Ann Conine Seymour, April 17, 1854, in Burmester,
                                        "Silas J. Seymour Letters (III)," 471.
                           
                              79 In 1834 the 
                                            New York
                                         legislature incorporated the 
                                            Warsaw
                                         and Le Roy Railroad, which would have operated in 
                                            Wyoming County
                                        , and $100,000 worth of stock was subscribed. After much
                                        planning and negotiation,
                        
                        
                        I have just returned from Mr Willes & was much pleased to find a letter from
                                    you Now do write me soon I get impatient with to long silence.
                        
                                    Good night Mary.
                                    Jane.
                                
                        Dont for mercy's sakes let Sailas see this letter, he would pronounce
                                    me idiotic in the extreame I send him any [a] mount of love from a bushel to a
                                    larger amount. Do write oftner. I get really vexed at you when [I] have to wait so
                                    long. One kiss for Nelly & I am done.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Jane Conine to Mary Ann Conine Seymour with a postscript from Derrick Conine
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Perry [
                                    New York
                                 ]
                           
                                    Oct 22 /54
                                
                        Sister Mary.
                        After so long delay I prepare to answer your very welcome letter. I have been to busy
                                    of late to think of writing. We are now nearly through with our fruit. We had
                                    bettween fifteen & twenty bushels of Peaches & about forty of Aples
                                    to dry. This is a particular blessing of ours, always fruit enough to work to kill
                                    common people; but I will not complain; tis finished & I do not realize any
                                    meterial loss. We are all enjoying usual health. Mother expects to start tomorrow in
                                    company with Mr & Mrs Buckhout for N.Y. so you see I am to be left alone. I
                                    verily believe I shall enjoy it. What say you to spending a part of the time with
                                    me. If you are not hear by the last of next week I shall not look for you. Shall we
                                    ever meet again is a question I often ask myself. I often repair at the twilight
                                    hour to our chamber. This hour always produces meloncholy yet I think it the
                                    pleasentest of the whole twenty four. Pardon me for giving an extract from my
                                    journel written a few eavnings since. 'Tis eavning. A few stars shine clear
                                    & pale like "lamp[s] before some far off alter." The voice
                                    of the wind murmurs through the trees 
                              however, the directors determined that the line could not be constructed
                                            within the time limits prescribed by the charter. The company was disbanded
                                            and the amounts of the stockholders' subscriptions were paid back,
                                            "less the expense." Another, more successful enterprise in 
                                                Wyoming County
                                             was the Attica and Hornellsville Railroad, projected in the
                                            summer of 1850, financed by sales of stock to people along the route and at
                                            Buffalo, and completed in 1852. Beers, History of 
                                                    Wyoming County
                                                
                                 , 73.
                           
                            dressed in their autumnal robes
                                    & see[m] to be telling their gay leaves a story of their frailty. Would you
                                    know Mary how that eavning found me. I was living over again the days of childhood
                                    listning to kind sisters voices. Those wer days long to be remembered but
                                    O! how lightly at the time wer they appreciated. As I gaze upon the moon
                                    & stars they seem to me a sweet link connecting us with the absent. Not only
                                    with the living but the glorified. They are but a screen drawn between the spirits
                                    of earth & heaven. Do you ever as you look above desire to draw asid this
                                    courtain. How the sight would dim our vision; t'is not for mortals eyes to
                                    behoid. We must be content to wait our appointed time: each day leaves but the
                                    number less, soon, soon the sun will rise & set for the last time to us. O
                                    then may our unmortal spirits quit with joy this tenement of clay to enjoy the bliss
                                    of Heaven. Mary I do not wish for a long life Yet I can say the will of the Lord be
                                    done. I have nothing to bind me to earth, as you have, those TENDER ties I never felt, but these must all be severed; how supporting in
                                    that trying hour to feel that God doet[h] all things well. He never worketh without
                                    a purpose & his chastisements are always sent in love. Mrs. Jeffers died
                                    August 28th she bore her sufferings with great patience through nearly all her
                                    illness near the last mind & reason seamed to looss its sway She grieved
                                    much for not having set abetter example before her children & before the
                                    world & sought in evry way to make amends. I often think if she who had
                                    always to all appearencs lived so devoted; as she neared the grave saw so much in
                                    her life to condemn, what will be the feelings of many professing godliness.
                                    T'is an awful thing to live Do we realize that for each thought, word
                                    & act we shall have to give an account, it is an easy matter to assent to
                                    the trouth of this, but [to] feel it is quite another. Eugene Jeffres is seeking
                                    religion, his mother endeavored to obtain a promis to this effect but invain. We
                                    hope & trust that he has counted the cost & will continue in the
                                    ways of well doing. Ezra [Jeffres] & wife experienced religion last winter.
                                    I never can be thankful enough that, that affair of ours closed as it did what days
                                    of misery I have escaped; we never could have been happy to gether. neither was
                                    there ever any real AFFECTION; subsisting between us. Rather let
                                    me live & die as I am, than form a connection with one who cannot simpathize
                                    with me; with him this would have been 
                                    impossable I speak & think of simpathy in higher terms perha[p]s than I
                                    would have done, had I never felt the want of it. Yet after all mine has not been a
                                    dreary life. Thare are many bright spots to which my eye can turn. It is sun-day
                                    Mary. Mother is in 
                                        Troy
                                     I suppose. I wish you & Silas wer here to a attend church with
                                    us. Mrs 
                                        Kent
                                     died a few months since with the typhoid fever.80
                                    the whole family have been ill with this disease. Mr Skinner was here last week
                                    & sa[i]d that William had started to make you a visit.81
                                    We sent you a little dried fruit by Morgan,82 but forgot to make
                                    arangements as to freight for which we are sorry, you have probibly seen them before
                                    now. B. G. Sanford has another heir, her health is quite poor. I almost forgot to
                                    tell you this, have had two letters from uncle Henry.83 he
                                    intended to have come out here if he had received ours before the warm weather came
                                    on. We have a beautiful fall roads as good as at any time during the summer. Our
                                    crop wer good this year, fetch a good price Wheat 2$ what we have sold
                                    has come to 28$[?]
                        [Jane]
                        I wonce more take time to rite A few lines to you to let you no that I am yet liveing
                                    my heath is good oanly I feal the efects of hard work and the effects of age84 stil I dew all that is don on my litel farm oanly in harvest
                                    I stlil have A nuf to be comfertabel85 and expet to have wile I
                                    live if I 
                              
                                 80 Mrs. Kent may have been Mary M. Kent, wife of
                                            Horatus 
                                                Kent
                                             of Perry Township. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 540.
                              
                                 81 Mr. Skinner was Jonas Skinner of Perry Township,
                                            the father-in-law of Catharine Conine Skinner.
                              
                                 82 In 1850, Silas J. Seymour's sister Naomi
                                            had married Charles Morgan, storekeeper and postmaster at La Grange, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            . They moved to 
                                    Madison, Wisconsin
                                 , in 1854. [Ruth Seymour Burmester, comp.],
                                            "Silas J. Seymour Letters (I)," 
                                    
                                                    Wisconsin
                                                 Magazine of History, XXXII (December, 1948), 197n;
                                            Burmester, "Silas J. Seymour Letters (III)," 469n.
                              
                                 83 Uncle Henry was probably Henry Conine, Derrick
                                            Conine's brother, born in 1787 and "said to have lived in 
                                                New Jersey
                                            ." Ruth Seymour Burmester to Donald E. Baker, August
                                            31, 1973.
                              
                                 84 Derrick Conine was born in 1797, so he was
                                            fifty-seven years old in 1854.
                              
                                 85 The value of Derrick Conine's real estate
                                            was recorded as $2,400 in the 1850 census. This assessment was
                                            increased to $4,000 in real estate and $1,500 in
                                            personal property in 1860 and to $5,000 in real estate and
                                            $1,800 in personal property in 1870. Derrick's estate
                                            was valued at $10,000 when he died in 1882. U.S., Seventh Census,
                                            1850, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 543; U.S., Eighth Census, 1860, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 655; U.S., Ninth Census, 1870, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., Perry Township, 55; Ruth Seymour Burmester to Donald E.
                                            Baker, March 1, 1973.
                           
                                     live rite and to live rite meins A gradeel
                                    [that is, great deal] I wold like to sea you verry much but wether I ever s[h]all or
                                    not is uncertain for life is uncerturn when I left you at atica86 I did not much expect to sea you any more but some times hope revives and I
                                    think that I shall sea you wonce more but wether I sea you or not I hope to hear
                                    from you and that you ar both of you seaking to lay up A large t[re]asure not all in
                                    rail rode stock but in that world ware we shall nead nothing of this world I have
                                    not much to rite I suppose that Jane has rote all the nuse so that I shall ad no
                                    more oanly I remane stil your farther and friend all the[t] some think me A hard
                                    farther and that you no ful well
                        
                                    D Conine
                                
                        PS Please to answer without long dlay.
                                    Jane.
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Jane Conine to Silas and Mary Ann Conine Seymour
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Perry [
                                    New York
                                 ] Academy.87
                              
                           
                                    March 4th [18]55
                                
                        Dear Brother—Sister.
                        I am thankful for another opportunity of writing to you. I have looked in vain for a
                                    letter from you—have concluded that you keep
                                    debt-credit. I suppose you would like to know whare Jane, is this
                                    winter—what her employment [is] I think that I can give you satisfactory
                                    information, for none know her better. Contrary to my most sanguine expectations I
                                    am attending school at Perry, room with Lucy W—[Willes]—Frank
                                    Jeff— [Jeffres]88 I do not expect to remain longer
                                    than till the close of this term—which will be 
                              
                                 86 Attica is a town on the Genesee-Wyoming County
                                            line. At the time Silas and Mary Ann Conine Seymour left for 
                                                Wisconsin
                                             in 1851, it was the nearest station to the Conine home where a
                                            train could be taken for Buffalo. Beers, History of 
                                                    Wyoming County
                                                
                                 , 73. For an account of the Seymours'
                                            "very pleasant trip, by water, from Buffalo to Milwaukee"
                                            and very unpleasant trip, by lumber wagon, from Milwaukee to their new home
                                            near Reedsburg, see Mary Ann Conine Seymour, "Reminiscences of
                                            Forty Years Ago," in Baker, "Conine Family Letters,
                                            1849-1851," 358-62.
                              
                                 87 Perry Academy in Perry village was established in
                                            1854. It was run on a nonsectarian basis for three years and then was
                                            controlled by the Methodists until the Perry public school district
                                            purchased the property in 1872. Beers, History of 
                                                    Wyoming County
                                                
                                 , 243-44; Roberts and Clarke, History of
                                                the Town of Perry, 112-21.
                              
                                 88 Frances M. Jeffres, the youngest of Thomas H.
                                            Jeffres' daughters, is even listed as "Frank" in
                                            the 1860 census. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 536; U.S., Eighth Census, 1860, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 615.
                           
                                     in seven weeks. I have thoughts of teaching
                                    next summer: but have no school eng[ag]ed yet I would like to be with
                                    you—to talk—advise with you; but this is not for me. no, no, I
                                    must content myself with writing.—you very well know how I detest it; but
                                    there is no other alternative Write I must; instead of talking. I receive a letter
                                    from Em [Conine Dorsey] a few weeks since, they wer well. Wm
                                    [Skinner] is starts for 
                                        Illinois
                                     this month hanging is to good for such a man. He has reason to thank
                                    his stars that I am not his better half. I fear that I should prove a thorn in the
                                    flesh, but it is useless to boast of unachieved d— me thinks I hear you
                                    say time will show what you would (or) will do. I hope none of you are in a hurry to
                                    have me take a partner for better or for worse. Em was quite inquisitative on this
                                    point. It is a question which at present troubles me but very little: things are not
                                    as they used to was. As free as free as the winds that fly is the song of your
                                    sister Jenny. O! that I knew what position God designed me for. Thare is
                                    nothing which I so much desire as to do good, to live to some purpose. God has
                                    nothing [word illegible] thare is enough to do to employ evry moment, yet how small
                                    an estimate do we place & 8400 mo.[?] 'tis but a day:
                                    Did we but realize that each left but the no [that is, one] less, which we have to
                                    spend here, how differently would we live. When will our eyes become open to this
                                    awful trouth that eternity is fast approaching. Death is on our track, whatever we
                                    have to do must be done quickly.
                        Have just returned [from] the funerel of one of our students, Miss Lacy, it is not
                                    quite one week since I stood beside the cold remains of her cousin—only
                                    four since they both met with: our school—as students. The Lord has
                                    spoken,—I trust that this warning will be heeded. This world is but a
                                    port, into which some are entering with pleasure—from which others are
                                    departing with anxiety
                        I stayed with Nancy [Willes] last night for the last time I presume for some time to
                                    come. They have sold to Ezra Jeffres—have mooved to Cattaurauguss.89 I have had some thoughts of going up thare to teach. Mr
                                    W— has spoken for a school for me but it is quite uncertain about my
                                    going. I think that I can have the school in Mr Peltons district, they 
                              
                                 89
                                            
                                                Cattaraugus County
                                             borders 
                                                Wyoming County
                                             on the southwest.
                           
                                     wer determind that I should come last winter.
                                    Lucy [Willes] intends to teach.—Nancy to work at her trade, she sends
                                    he[r] love,—,wonders why you donot write. Delia [Jeffres] is at home.
                                    Eugene [Jeffres]—Mary wer marrid last monday. they are [all] double now
                                    but John. Elam [Jeffres] has sold—mooved to 
                                        Pike
                                    
                           90 he marrid—Miss Lillybridge. she was
                                    worth considerable property, but not a beauty I shure you. I had almost forgotten to
                                    tell you who Chris—r J—[Jeffres] marrid. I will do it now I
                                    may expect chastisement in your next. Miss E. [Ellen] Allen—a stranger to
                                    me—probibly to you. George Coleman, is the father of two children, a
                                    boy—girl, they are mighty smart & 'tis only about twoo
                                    years since they wer marrid. if they keep on at this rate, I imagine they will have
                                    enough—to spare.91 Thare is a lot more I would like
                                    to write, but you must excue me this time.
                        
                                    Jane.
                                
                        Do write soon. I am in an awful hurry—they girl[s] are acting like
                                    witches so pleas excuse all errors.
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Jane Conine to Mary Ann Conine Seymour with a postscript from Derrick Conine
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Perry [
                                    New York
                                 ].
                           
                                    May, 24. [1855?]
                                
                        Sister. Mary.
                        We hasten to reply to yours of the — most glad would I do so in persone,
                                    but at present this cannot be. yet I still indulge the hope of visiting you, in your
                                    western home.
                        I am teaching in ourown district;92 school has been in session
                                    two weeks. I am well pleased with it as yet. Those who have had the worst name, have done well. John Tillon for example, seemes exceedingly anxious to please.93 I could not expect
                                    him to do better than he has done but I hardly 
                              
                                 90
                                            
                                                Pike
                                             is a township on the southern edge of 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            .
                              
                                 91 George W. and Jane Coleman eventually had seven
                                            children altogether. Hogue, History of the Free Methodist
                                                Church, II, 222.
                              
                                 92 Old District School Number 22, Town of Perry, was
                                            just a short distance east and across the road from the Conine home on Lot
                                            12 of the West Ogden Tract in the Burke Hill area of Perry. Harry S.
                                            Douglass to Donald E. Baker, October 2, 1973.
                              
                                 93 John Tillon may have been the ten year old son of
                                            Elizabeth and James Tillon, Jr., of Perry Township. U.S., Seventh Census,
                                            1850, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 528.
                           
                                     dare mention it for fear the spell should
                                    break. "A new broom sweeps clean." I had occasion to remind the
                                    good people of this distri[ct] of this fact, doubtless it will not be long
                                    'ere I shall become as cross and ugly as any of [my]
                                    predecessor's. So goes school teaching. It will be one of the seven wonders
                                    if I should make a successful teacher. I am to receive t[h]e enormous sum of 15sh[?] per [week?]
                        I have just writen to Catharine shame to me she has written the scond letter before I
                                    took time to answer. She seem somewhat displeased and I do not blame her
                        May 30.
                        Nearly a week has passed since the writing of the first page. Since then we have had
                                    news from the east.94 we hope to send a draft whith this; the
                                    money we have not yet recieved neither do we know how much it will be after all
                                    expenses are deducted. Uncle Jacob charged 1$ for what he done, then
                                    Mass. charged one cent on a dollar for the money, and what Mr Smith will ask for his
                                    services we do not know as yet. I think Uncle Jacob showed himself. Aunt Lydia has
                                    gone to Mich—to live with her children. Uncle Henry writes us that he is
                                    not so well this spring an when he was here.
                        Adelia Jeffres is still at Gainsvill.95 I will send you Mary
                                    Packards address, you must write before September, for they may not be thare, after
                                    that time.
                        White's Corners, Erie, Co. N.Y. Mary was home this spring but I did not see
                                    her. She considered it quite un-fortionate that she was not permitted to see you
                                    when you were here. Harmon Vanslyke has returned from Mich.—with a wife,
                                    dont we Perry galls feel bad? If he could not make a living before, I am
                                    afraid the[t] he will not now that he [has] a wife to support. His lady is as plain
                                    looking 
                              
                                 94 The news, apparently, was that someone had died and
                                            left some money to each of the Conine children. The fact that the children,
                                            rather than Derrick Conine, were the beneficiaries suggests that the
                                            deceased was a relative of Abigail Bates Conine, the children's
                                            mother. Abigail herself died in 1841. It has been conjectured that her
                                            father died about 1850. See Baker, "Conine Family Letters,
                                            1849-1851," 354n.
                              
                                 95 Delia Jeffres was assistant to the principals of
                                            the 
                                                Gainesville
                                             Female Seminary, established in 1855 in 
                                    Gainesville, Wyoming
                                                    County
                                 , and patterned after Mt. Holyoke
                                            Seminary at South Hadley, 
                                                Massachusetts
                                            . [Harry S. Douglass], "Seminary Days at 
                                                Gainesville
                                            ," Historical Wyoming, II (March,
                                            1949), 63; Beers, History of 
                                                    Wyoming County
                                                
                                 , 192.
                           
                                     as your homely sister, Jane, they inted to
                                    spend the summer here.
                        I received a letter not long since from Mrs. Hannah Lomis of Mich— known
                                    to you as H— Chappel of Perry.96 She has marrid a
                                    widower with eight children. Some of them are marrid; but three or four at home. Mr.
                                    Lomis is her cousin, and worth about thirty thousand. They were engaged before she
                                    went west.
                        Her folks appear quite well pleased with the match, her health is about the same as
                                    when she returned here from 
                                        Rochester
                                    . I should think H. was enjoying herself very well. Should her health
                                    admitt she intends to visit home next fall.
                        I have had my upper teeth extracted, eleven at one sitting. Say; haveent I some
                                    courage. My new ones will cost my share of the eastern property. I cannot have them
                                    before Oct. if then
                        I sometimes think of taking a westward trip next fall. I should have done so this
                                    Spring, but for my teeth, you had better take your money and get yourself some. I
                                    was very much disappointed in not seeing you again. I looked & look all day
                                    friday expecting father, & did not give up until Saturdy afternoon. That was to bad, but it cannot be helped now.
                        Jenny. C
                        Please to remember that you have a letter unanswered when you receive this. Should
                                    the draft be sent with this father will be quite anxious to know if your get it or
                                    no. Tell Ellen that we have a lamb at the house & if She will come down and
                                    feed it she may have it. And that we would like to see her very much.
                        Your money and Clarindia['s] will be sent together, dont let her give it to
                                    Lyme
                        Dear children
                        I take this time to rite A few lines to you to let you no that I am stil liveing and
                                    in Joying tolerabel health for me and hope that these few lines will find you in the
                                    same I will Just remind you of that rosum wead sead I want you to 
                              
                                 96 Hannah Chappell, like other Chappells mentioned in
                                            these letters, was a child of Lyman and Betsey Chappell. In 1855 she was
                                            about thirty-eight years old. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 543.
                           
                                     save for me and send to me this fol if I dont
                                    come and get it97 I want to sea that hopato girl and ol the rest
                                    of you and wen you get this draft you wil sel it half sent on a doller more than the
                                    face of it if you can for the Bank took hole cent on a doler for the draft rite wen
                                    you get it you [w]on['t] git more on the account of the personel poperty
                                    [tax?]
                        
                                    D Conine
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Emily Conine Dorsey to Mary Ann Conine Seymour
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              [postmarked Halls Corners, Indiana]
                           
                                    June [postmarked 14,] 1855
                                
                        Dear sister:
                        I determined to improve a few moments in writing to you I aught to have written long
                                    ago but have not got a bout it. my time has been pretty well occupied this spring we
                                    have been building a barn, this spring I have got my wool picked and ready to send
                                    away tomorrow We are all well Horace and folks were weell when last I saw them
                                    the[y] were all here a few weeks since the[y] built a frame house last summer We
                                    have quite a backward spring, it froze last night wheat looks good now but we fear
                                    the weevil will destroy it again ours wil not suffer for we have none sowed, peaches
                                    are all destroid apples will not be very plenty
                        I want you to write as soon as you get this and if Fanny [Howard, Clarinda's
                                    daughter,] is near you or you see her tell her to write to me we want to hear how
                                    they are getting along we want to know if you have any more family and of your
                                    health, is your throat well I often think of that, if you do not find time to write
                                    soon I want Silas to write we are always glad to hear from you; John has scolded me
                                    for not writing to you before and said he would for he wanted to hear from you We
                                    wish you could come and make us a visit this fall. We would enjoy your company very
                                    much Mary Delucia would be happy too she often wishes Catharines children [were]
                                    here again she talks every thing 
                              
                                 97 Silas and Mary Ann Conine Seymour seem to have been
                                            keeping the entire family supplied with rosin. Silas' mother wrote
                                            in 1854: "We are much obliged to you for the rosin-weed gum and
                                            bark. I think they were both beneficial to your father's
                                            health." Susan Seymour to Silas and Mary Ann Conine Seymour, April
                                            17, 1854, in Burmester, "Silas J. Seymour Letters (III),"
                                            468.
                           
                                     plain and might go to school but she likes her
                                    liberty too well and she is most to young, we have a school house right under our
                                    nose[,] a meeting house a mile distant we have preaching once in two weeks and
                                    sabbath school every sabbath, have you any privalege of meeting I cant think of any
                                    thing more now so good by for the present
                        
                                    Emily Dorsey
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Jane Conine to Mary Ann Conine Seymour
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              School Room. Perry [
                                    New York
                                 ]
                           
                                    July 8th /55
                                
                        Dear. Sister.
                        I had concluded that you had given up writing, just as all the rest have, but I am
                                    happy to be convinced to the contrary Well, I declare, another girl.98 I'd speak for something else next time. I pity you, that so,
                                    but then you always liked children, of course one would like their own!
                                    thats naturel! I spose! I like good, smart, pretty children,
                                    but then, I should get tired of them I know. I have some, just such, here. I can
                                    endure them at school but, when they throng around me after I have whalked a mile or
                                    more, & I feel just like sitting down in one corner, all alone by myself,
                                    tis then that I think of Job, & wonder if he ever taught school &
                                    boarded around. By this time I suppose you have a little anxiety to know where I am,
                                    training the young idea. It is Mr Jacksons dist. It is a very small school,
                                    & I have only twelve s[h]illings per week. I do not average over nine
                                    [scholars], though I number tirteen brain & brainless, ho, hum, I always,
                                    put the worst side out when writing. Now the trouth is just this. I do like
                                    teaching, but I dont like boarding around. I intend to be differently situated if I
                                    live, & teach another season. I dont know whether the dis. like me or not,
                                    & I dont care much. I do the best I can, & if they want to find fait
                                    the[y] may. (a privilege which people ingeneral improve.). I never felt so
                                    indipendent in any thing I ever attempted, as in teaching. They wanted me in our
                                    school, but I told them plainly that I never would attempt to govern children that
                                    wer not governed at home. That is I would not go into such a school if I knew it but
                                    if I was once in, I presume I should usu[r]pe 
                              
                                 98 Silas and Mary Ann Conine Seymour's second
                                            child and second daughter, Ida Jane, was born March 2, 1855. Ogle, Memorial and Biographical Record … of 
                                                    Columbia
                                                , Sauk and Adams Counties, 235.
                           
                                     my athority. The second week of school, one of
                                    my little girls told me that her mother said, if I puinished her she would take
                                    he[r] out I never had [met?] her dear ma but I ventured, to send her word
                                    to this effect, that I governed my own school, & further more if her
                                    children need punishing she might expect that they would get it. They are here today
                                    & I don't borrow any trouble about their future appearance. I have
                                    been teaching nine week & have not whipped one yet, but I think that I have
                                    quite good government. I let my eyes do what they can. these are going to spoil my
                                    market I expect, for evry body is afraid of them.
                        school, room. 10 P.M. [sic]
                        Having but three schollers this morning I find time to write. I shall have more
                                    during the day. yes, here comes some just now. val, val. Only six weeks more
                                    & I shall be free again. I think of attending school next winter, probibly
                                    at Perry. I have had an invitation to spend the winter in Cal [Cattaraugus] with
                                    Lucy [Willes]. Nancy. I look for them down [in] September, when we will determin
                                    where we will go. I hae been with them, so much, since you left, that I find it
                                    painful in the extream to be seperated. we keep up a monthly corrispondence. I wish
                                    you could read some of their letters, tis a feast for me I asure you. O!
                                    Mary, were it not for friends I should be a very unhappy mo[r]tal.
                                    I am thankful that I do not inherit our Fathers suspicious feeling. I am ready, to
                                    count all as friends untill they prove themselves, contrairywise. I thank God, that
                                    I was born a sociable being. I love society, I love to have friends & to
                                    prove myself a friend. I would not give much for life were it not
                                    for friends. I never saw the time when I felt that I had more than at present, but
                                    then those I love most dearly are far away, & today I feel lonly &
                                    sad. Report says, that I am to be marrid this fall, but it is not so, or at least
                                    that is not my present intention. O! Mary, how I do
                                    wish you were here, there are somethings which I so want to say to you. you are the
                                    only one to whome I would dare tell them. Nancy, Lucy, enjoy my confidence almost without reserve, & it is not for lack of confidence
                                    in them, that I would shun at present to open my heart, to them, no, no, but then, I
                                        cannot I must not. yet I have not a doubt,
                                    but what it would be for the best, for me to do so. Now I ought not to have written
                                    this, forgive me  Mary. Dont, try to conjecture
                                    what it is, that seemes just now to rest with weight upon my mind, your conclusion
                                    would be erronious, I am sure, perhaps 1 may tell you sometime.
                        School Room. 5 Cl. PM.
                        It is my practice when circumstances will admitt, to spend the time from four untill
                                    six at the schoolhouse I enjoy these seasons, very much I have a great deal of
                                    writing to do, & I usually spend this time in that way. I sent two letters
                                    last week & have three to write this week. Emily & Cat. have not a
                                    word to me in more than, a year; if they can stand it I can, but I am inclind to
                                    think, that I should not bear such treatment as gracefully, from you. I had begun to
                                    be almost provoked, but your letter proved sufficient to restore me to good humor
                                    again. Uncle Henry spent nearly two weeks with us in June, he looks &
                                    appears something like Fathe[r] but he talks th[r]ee times as
                                    much! he is real funny. I feel quite anxious to go & make him a
                                    visit. Now if I was only RICH, wouldent I travell, but it is all right, the Lord
                                    knows what is for our best good. We have not heard from aunt Lydia in sometime
                                    & do not know how she is going to arrange buisness. Hannah Cappel is in
                                    Cleaveland, 
                                        Ohio
                                    . I think I wrote you that she had fell & hurt her. this brought
                                    on her old complaint, the institution is closed at Ro. [
                                        Rochester
                                    ] but her physician there advised [her] to go where she has gone
                                    & she is receving considerable benefeit, is able to walk again &
                                    &. Delia Jeffres, is living at home, & is one of the most examplary
                                    persons I ever saw.
                        
                                    yours, in haste.
                                    Jenny
                                
                        Aunt Polly Pelton is marrid, they say to a man as singular as herself Gloria
                                    Willis has captured an English man; this is about all that I know about THEM.
                                    Mother often speaks of you. you was her favorite you know. She is extreemly good to
                                    me this summer. I hardly know how to account for it. We would willingly save Peaches
                                    if [we] were going to have them, the cold winter almost destroyed the trees,
                                    & there is not a Peach to be seen. I donot know of any for miles
                                    around. I received a call today from Mr. Hira[m] Crouch, he has been attending
                                    school at Perry, & report says, that he intends to be a minister. I love to
                                    laugh at him about it just to see  him blush.99 Father & mother are usually well & are
                                    disappointed as well as myself in not being privileged to look for you in the
                                    fall. I intend to come out to see you sometime, but I think it doubtful about
                                    my comeing next fall. Now it is not because I would not like to, you know it is not,
                                    but I dont see how I can. Hope. O! thoue companion of my life what would
                                    I do without thee. Yes I hope to see you Mary, & spend many happy hours in
                                    you [r] cociety
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Emily Conine Dorsey to Silas and Mary Ann Conine Seymour
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Scipio [Township, 
                                    Allen County
                                 , Indiana]
                           
                                    Aug, the 11. 1855
                                
                        Dear sister M.
                        having a few leasure moments I will improve them by writing a few words to you. I am
                                    happy to say we are all well as yet there is a good deal of sickness around us. We
                                    have had an uncommon wet time & it is now come off dry which causes it to be
                                    sickly we never new such a rainy time corn is almost ruined by it & a good
                                    deal of wheat injured after it was cut. Bad times for farmers.
                        You spoke of emigrating, if you were comeing here I would like to encourage you for
                                    your society would be very agreeable we have only one little chatter box and dont
                                    think of having any more. I think it strange that you have such feavers after your
                                    confinemet it must be owing to bad management from hired girls or unskilled
                                    physicians we have many more doctors than good ones Jonathan's wife came
                                    very near loosing her life by bad management she was kept sweating until her feather
                                    bed was wet through and the straw was musty they sent for another physician who said
                                    she must be kept cool and get up a good many times in the day and she soon began to
                                    amend.
                        I have not heard from Catharine for some time and cannot expect to until I answer
                                    hers I was sorry they wer not 
                              
                                 99 Hiram Crouch, son of Hiram and Ann Crouch and
                                            brother of Asenith, "had a remarkable conversion in early life, and
                                            while amid surroundings of prevalent spiritual darkness … and was
                                            clearly led into the experience of entire sanctification." He
                                            joined the Free Methodists in 1863 and, despite financial hardship and a
                                            series of crippling accidents, preached in 
                                    Pennsylvania, Colorado
                                 , and 
                                                New Mexico
                                             successively until his death in 1910. Hogue, History of the Free Methodist Church, II, 64-67; U.S., Seventh
                                            Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 541.
                           
                                    
                                    
                              These pictures of Clarinda Howard and Emily Dorsey were incorrectly captioned
                                            in the December, 1973, Indiana Magazine of History.
                              
                           
                                     content to stay here where we could see them
                                    William lost considerable by selling and is content to follow the plow again Cath.
                                    makes a better clerk than housekeeper I suppose you ment Fanny H. [Howard] by
                                    Francis if so she must be a good scholar and teacher and you tell her that her aunt
                                    Emily would like to have a letter from her. Lydia Buckhout and Sarah are married100 I dont envy their husbands their happiness Horace and folks
                                    are well, their children all attend school but Alace.101 Mary is
                                    trying her hand at cheese making this summer
                        I have made 6 cheeses and intend making more soon we milk 5 cows cheese 10 cts butter
                                    121/z
                        I am trying to spin some but it gets along slowly I have about 28 lbs to spin and
                                    weave for I have bought a loom, so if you want your weaving done just bring it here
                                    and I will try to please you.
                        Silas you have not written a word to us for a long time I hope you do not forget us
                                    we are always glad to have a few lines from you it makes you seem more like a
                                    brother and friend. I dont know but you have written last if so you are excusable.
                                    You must be building a very large barn or else lumber is dearer than it is here ours
                                    cost 250, and we think that dear. We have got our barn pretty well filled with hay
                                    and oats it has been worth a good deal this wet summer I dont know how any body gets
                                    along without a barn as the saying is
                        
                                    From your sister
                                    Emily D. Dorsey
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Jane Conine to Mary Ann Conine Seymour with a postscript from Derrick Conine
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Perry [
                                    New York
                                 ]
                           
                                    Nov. 9th /56
                                
                        Sister Mary.
                        It is not for want of inclination that I have thus delayed to answer your letter. For
                                    a few weeks I have been so much 
                              
                                 100 Sarah Buckhout, like Lydia, was a sister of Horace
                                            Conine's wife Mary and a niece of Derrick Conine's wife
                                            Betsey. Lydia married William Taylor and moved to 
                                                Nebraska
                                            . Sarah became the second wife of Elisha Whipple. Ruth Seymour
                                            Burmester to Donald E. Baker, February 12, 1973.
                              
                                 101 Alice Marian was Horace Conine's fourth
                                            child. She was born in 1852. Ruth Seymour Burmester to Donald E. Baker,
                                            March 15, 1973.
                           
                                     engaged in necessary employment so as to have
                                    not a leisure hour for writing. I am sory to disappoint you, & I asure you
                                    it is with no small degree of reluctence that I give up the thought which I had so
                                    fondly cherished for months past; of seeing you this fall. They had spoken to me
                                    about teaching here again this winter before I received your answer, after that I
                                    was quite undecided & but had I known at that time of some one that I could
                                    have had for company, I should have come. I have learned to day that Mr. Shelden is
                                    down. I can not begin to tell you how I feel, if I had not engaged to teach here I
                                        would come without fail, but I have promissed to commence next
                                    week. O! dear I do not believe that I shall enjoy myself one bit this
                                    winter. I don't like teaching a district school, & for this reason,
                                    I have to much care. If I could [have] one of the situations which you spoke of I
                                    think it would suit me far better. Mary I do intend to see you next spring if I
                                    live, my heart is set on it. In the meantime if it will not be to much trouble
                                    & & & I would be very grateful if you would find out what
                                    could be done. I am afraid Silas will think I am to presuming, that he has business,
                                    enough of his own to attend to, & I would not blame him if he did. I
                                    sometimes think that I was borne purposely to make other people trouble, if so you
                                    may expect your share if you have not had it already. Father is not at all well this
                                    fall, he does not complain much & has done all his work, but time has not
                                    passed him unnoticed in his flight. He speaks often of Ellen I guess we should all
                                    be glad to see her. Permitt me here to tell you what all my friends say &
                                    father among them of my comming to you. "That I will not come back,
                                    [']Miss['] Conine." So look yo up some nice good Swain to
                                    be in readiness, he must be rich remember, rather tall light
                                    complected blue eyes, brown hair & lastly though not least of all he must be
                                    PERFECTLY TEMPERATE
                        I think we have some reason to fear a congestion of the brain after the great mental
                                    effort made in writing the above.
                        I think father will write some so good by.
                        P.s. Tell Ellen that we have one of the nicest kittens, if she will come down here
                                    she may have it.
                        Jenny C.
                        
                        I will send you some Garlic seed. I have been sewing again since school closed, have
                                    earned 211/2 $[?].102 How I do dread this
                                    winter. I have no id[e]a that I shall teach more than three months. I wonder at
                                    their wanting me at all I am informed however that it was a unanimous voice Dear
                                    children
                        as Jane has left A smal peas for me I will rite A few lines to you so you m[a]y no
                                    that I am A live and in joy tolerabel health I did think s[o]m[e of] A comeing out
                                    ths fol but have given it up I supose you wold like to no how my seller is with
                                    appels this fol I have A boout three bushels I raised seventy bushels of weat rathe
                                    [r] smal crop but I have unuf so that I can pay my tax and I Dont ow any boddy
                        Mr Sea more has had his hous burnt but has got lumber he [re] the last time he was he
                                    [re] and the nabers is goin [to] help him bild another lost all wen you rite Send A
                                    few more of them sead if you please grate far in perry G [Judge?] smith
                                    is sed to have lost ten thousan his hole block is burne[d] an A num ber of others
                                    hae lost all it look haret [that is, horrid?]103
                        
                        
                                    D Conine
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Horace and Mary Buckhout Conine to Silas and Mary Ann Conine Seymour
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Newville [Indiana]
                           
                                    Jan. 11th 1857
                                
                        Dear Brother & Sister!
                        I received yours on the 9th and hasten to write a few words in reply. I
                                    don't blame you for scolding me but as you 
                              
                                 102 Jane Conine had previously worked as a seamstress,
                                            living with various families for whom she made clothing. See Jane Conine to
                                            Silas and Mary Ann Conine Seymour, November 30, 1851, in Baker,
                                            "Conine Family Letters, 1849-1851," 363.
                              
                                 103 Fire broke out in Perry village on Saturday,
                                            September 20, 1856, burning a shoe store, a jewelry store, a
                                            "photograph car," and a drug store. Five days later fire
                                            struck again, destroying eight stores, the post office, the Perry Times newspaper office, two lodge halls, and two
                                            residences. Arsonists, or "incendiaries," were blamed for
                                            the fires. The village history notes that the "loss of buildings
                                            was mainly with Rufus H. Smith, who carried no insurance." Judge
                                            Smith was probably the village's most prominent citizen, having
                                            been interested at one time or another in a flouring mill, a carding mill, a
                                            saw mill or two, a foundry, and a grist mill. He erected a block of business
                                            buildings in 1857. Several of the others who lost everything in the fires
                                            were young men who had recently begun in business. Roberts and Clarke, History of the Town of Perry, 54, 55, 60, 65, 70, 74-75,
                                            253, 286-88.
                           
                                     said sickness would excuse me Mary has
                                    suggested that I plead as an excuse having had the fever delirk;
                                    it is rather a slow fever but nevertheless quite difficult to
                                    remove. We are well, so are Johns folks I arrived at Mazomanig just at dark the day
                                    I left you, lay by over night at Janesville & reached home Thursday morning
                                    without any accident more than running over a cow Since the Rail Road from 
                                        Fort Wayne
                                     to 
                                        Chicago
                                     is completed, I could go in half the time it took me104
                        
                        When I reached home I found the corn ripened with frost I had about 100 bush, poor
                                    corn & 300 not so poor. Corn is 35 cts, oats 35, wheat 1,00, pork 6,25 per
                                    C, hay from 8 to 10 dolars a ton. As this is the third letter I have written to day
                                    you must acknowledge that my fever has somewhat abated and also excuse me for not
                                    writing more. Remember me to Lyman's folks, tell them I intend to write to them
                        
                                    Sincerely your friend & Brother
                                    Horace Conine
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Dear Sister
                        As Horace has not quite filled his large sheet I thought I would scrible a little We
                                    can not boast of our sleighing, the snow is some 4 inches deep, and the weather not
                                    very cold We got a letter from Julia last Sunday which brought us the sad
                                    intelligence of Fathers death105 His disease was Putrid
                                        Erysiplas106 he was sick two weeks. Julia said He seemed
                                    perfectly reconciled
                        You said you wished we would come up and spend New Years day with you I guess I would
                                    have liked it as well as you would. But just think how we are scattered. I hardly
                                        
                              
                                 104 Rail connection between 
                                                Fort Wayne
                                             and 
                                                Chicago
                                             was established in 1856, but the traveler had to make
                                            connections on three separate railroads to accomplish a journey between the
                                            two cities. The 
                                    Pittsburgh,
                                                    Fort Wayne
                                 
                                            & 
                                                Chicago
                                             Railroad was completed that year as far west as 
                                                Plymouth
                                            , Indiana. The 
                                                Cincinnati
                                            , Peru & 
                                                Chicago
                                             linked 
                                                Plymouth
                                             and 
                                                La Porte
                                            , whence the 
                                                Michigan
                                             Southern & Northern Indiana could be taken on into 
                                                Chicago
                                            . Rail connection from 
                                                Chicago
                                             to Mazomanie, 
                                                Wisconsin
                                            , via Janesville, was completed in 1857. See Frederic L. Paxson,
                                            "The Railroads of the 'Old Northwest' before the
                                            Civil War," Transactions of the 
                                                    Wisconsin
                                                 Academy of Sciences, Arts and Letters, XVII (2 parts, 
                                                Madison
                                            , Wis., 1911), Part 1, 260, 262-63, 272-73.
                              
                                 105 Julia Buckhout was a daughter of Philip Buckhout
                                            and sister of Mary Buckhout Conine. U.S., Seventh Census, 1850, 
                                                Wyoming County
                                            , N.Y., 418.
                              
                                 106 Erysipelas, also called St. Anthony's
                                            Fire and in one form Black Tongue, is an acute infectious disease of the
                                            skin or mucous membranes. It is characterized by local inflammation and
                                            fever.
                           
                                     think we shall be so lucky as to take dinner
                                    with you this winter. I dont believe you have got such a mischevious Boy as we
                                        have.107 to begin with this morning he broke a plate, turned
                                    over a pitcher of sour milk climbs on all the chairs, and aint a year old and now
                                    stands crying at my side, so 
                                        Ill.
                                     quit
                        
                                    Yours Affectio[n]ally
                                    M[ary Buckhout] Conine
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Jane Conine to Mary Ann Conine Seymour with a postscript from Derrick Conine
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    April, 15th [postmarked 1857]
                                    
                              Perry [
                                    New York
                                 ].
                           
                                
                        Sister. Mary.
                        Gladly do I improve the present opportunity for writing you. I intended to have done
                                    so long before but have been postponing not knowing where I should be this coming
                                    summer. I believe it is now decided that I teach here at home again. They spoke to
                                    me about teaching long before the winter term closed, but I thought then I would
                                    rather go somewhere else. Thare being no favorable opening, I am here, that is if I
                                    suceed in getting my Passport.108 The County Commissioner who
                                    fills the place of Town Superintendents, after visiting my school last winter,
                                    advised the trustees to keep me as long as they could. Notwithstanding, I have
                                    barely an expectation that I shall pass. On an appointed day all those designing to
                                    teach, that is in one town meet & are examined together. We are to meet the
                                    twentieth of this month, so ere these lines reach you my fate will be determined
                        
                           
                              107 This was Horace and Mary Buckhout Conine's
                                        fifth child, Arthur Howard Conine, born in 1856. Ruth Seymour Burmester to
                                        Donald E. Baker, March 15, 1973.
                           
                              108 By passport Jane Conine must mean a teaching
                                        certificate. Prospective teachers were examined by the appropriate public
                                        official—the township superintendent of common schools between 1847
                                        and 1856 or the county school commissioner after 1856—and were issued
                                        a certificate if judged competent to teach. See Carl H. Griffey, The History of Local School Control in the State of 
                                                New York
                                             (Teachers College, 
                                                Columbia
                                             University, Contributions to Education, No. 683; 
                                            New York
                                        , 1936), 60-61, 126-27. Mary Ann Conine's husband Silas J.
                                        Seymour taught school in 
                                            New York
                                         for a few years before he moved to 
                                            Wisconsin
                                        . A certificate form in the Conine-Seymour Collection, with
                                        Silas' name and the date October 15, 1842, filled in, attests that he
                                        was "well qualified, in respect to moral character, learning and
                                        ability, to instruct a Common School …." A certificate for
                                        another teacher, with exactly the same wording, was printed in Historical Wyoming, V (May, 1952), 95.
                        
                        
                        If I should feel as independent as I did whe[n] he visited my school I probibly shall
                                    pass. After praising me quite as much as I think was allowable, he remarks
                                    "Her confidence will always secure her success." All that prophesy
                                    are not true prophest. I presume that you have heard that I was to
                                    be marrid this spring, it was beleived & anxiously waited for by all far
                                    & near. They tried hard to convince me of the supposed fact, but for some
                                    reason it seemed quite to big a pill for me to swallow. I told them I would try to
                                    beleive but they must forgive me if I did not succeed for my faith was certainly
                                    very weak. Now they hardly know what to think though all unite in saying that I
                                    might if I would.
                        To YOU Mary i'll not deny but that thare is some trouth in the last
                                    assertion but to say that such are or have been
                                    my intentions; I cannot. The gentleman inquestion, is about twenty eight years of
                                    age, good standing in society, good principals a miember of the Presbytirian church,
                                    is worth not far from fifteen hundred He is said to look very well. All I have to
                                    say on this point is, & which will be the same as describing him to YOU, he
                                    is just the reverse of what I have pictured to myself, however that is not my
                                    objection. My views at present are these, that we never should think & feel
                                    alike. He is ve[r]y quiet, unassuming; infact my counterpart in
                                    evry respect. Such a contrast as would remind one of the Eagle & the Dove.
                                    What say you Sister Mary are you in favor of such a union; think you it would result
                                    in mutual profit? after having seriously canvassed the subject please
                                    favor me with your decision. Father says do just as you think best. I do not feel at
                                    present like having one of those, untiab[l]e knots, tied, when
                                    thare is no real affection on my part. I would not have you think that I am looking
                                    for perfection in a companion. 1 have faults of my own & consequently would
                                    not if I could be united to a faultless one; but I do think did this subject receive
                                    its due attention; was reason allowed to govern instead of passion, much of the
                                    misery which now seemes inevitable might be avoided. We can scercely take up a paper
                                    at the present day unless our eyes are greeted with one or more paragraphs of
                                    divorcement. And to what are we to attribute this state of things, does it exist
                                    where thare is sympathy of feeling; where thare is union of hearts; far from it.
                                    'tis only where the conubial yoke has proved to galling where the man
                                    pulled one way & the wife the other. Deliver me from Such
                                    a yoking.
                        
                        I shall expect to hear from you soon.
                        Father will write if he has time.
                        
                                    Yours &
                                    Jenny
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        The individual refered to here is a brother of the girls that I roomed with when you
                                    were here. I will try and send you the Garlic seed.
                        Dont refer to my affairs unless you do it on a seperate slip of paper. For father
                                    thinks he must read all your letters. Neither must you mention it to Naomi [Seymour
                                    Morgan] or any of them it might get back before I should like to hear it. I thought
                                    I would tell you just for the funn of it. mother dont know any thing only that he
                                    has been here sometimes.
                        Dear children
                        it tis threw the kind protection of the lord that I am A live and abel to rite to you
                                    A few lines I have not much to rite but dont think so much of this world that you
                                    forget [you] are mortel and must dye like all eaothers for folks dye hear all the
                                    wile and going to judgement and I expect soon to leave to to dy no more try to meat
                                    me on that beter land ware parting will be no more for I dew not expet to in joy the
                                    society of you any more in this world I may posabil sea you and I may not I want to
                                    come out but wether 1 s[h]all or not is uncertain But rite wen the raile road is
                                    threw to Delton109 and all about the rout and it may posabel in
                                    tice me t[o] start but for me it is hard leaveing home T will ad no more I remane
                                    your farther and pretended friend
                        
                                    D [C]onine
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Derrick Conine to [Mary Ann Conine Seymour]
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    [1857?]
                                
                        I reseavied your leter wich was A consolation to me to hear from you if I cant sea
                                    you I am well as comin for me we have had A verry pleasent winter and hay A nuf but
                                    weat I hav none I had 8 eakers and got 8 bushels of weat and ches110 this year I sode none so the weaveil cant eat it 
                              
                                 109 Delton is a township of 
                                    Sauk County, Wisconsin
                                 , just east of Dellona Township where
                                            Silas and Mary Ann Conine Seymour lived.
                              
                                 110 Chess is a type of brome grass.
                           
                                     up111 I stil dew wat litil
                                    is done my self but that is not much as my children has all bin so lucky to gat so
                                    far of[f] that I cant sea them any more and thay will not be troubeled with me I
                                    have made up my mind to live as easey as I can ef I can dew anuf to pay my tacks so
                                    I can ceop [that is, keep] th[e] old place to stay on you rote that liman [Howard]
                                    want ed to go to minasoty. tel Clarrindy for me never sel that place if she has got
                                    the Dead of it un les she wants to suffer the rest of hur days Jane is to Horace is
                                    and ses she is going to stay thare this sumer and I think likely longer I want to
                                    come out and sea you and your fine cantry but all uncertain but one thing try to
                                    remember that it tis not all of life to live nor all of death to dy but thare is a
                                    heavin to gane and a hel to sone [that is, shun]112 I ad no mor
                                    so fare well my children I want to sea them litel ones
                        
                                    D Conine
                                
                        we had no f[r]ute last year I had perhaps ten bushels of apels
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Jane Conine Hawkins to Mary Ann Conine Seymour
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Winchester [postmarked Sandy, 
                                    Ohio
                                 ].
                           
                                    May 29, 1858
                                
                        Dear Sister.
                        I embrace the present opportunity with pleasure to address you. If I have figured
                                    right however, I think I am not in your debt; I can hardly remember when I have
                                    heard from you, sometime last fall I think. I hope that you, & yours are
                                    well, truly health is one of the greatest of blessings; you have heard probibly ere
                                    this of my adventures; but perhaps it might not be amiss for me [to] inform you that
                                    on the fourth of April I was marrid to John Hawkins, of 
                                        Ohio
                                    . Mr. H. is a miller. We left Ind—a few days after we were
                                    marrid, & came here, or rather to father H's, where we remained
                                    about two weeks, then, left for N.Y. we reached home in safety & found all
                                    well. We made but a short visit, as it seemed needful for us to be here. Our goods
                                    came safe & we have 
                              
                                 111 The midge, or wheat weevil, appeared in the
                                            Genesee Valley of 
                                                New York
                                            , of which 
                                                Wyoming County
                                             is a part, about 1845. Ultimately the ravages of the insect led
                                            to the almost complete abandonment of wheat, which had been the chief
                                            commercial crop of the area. See Neil Adams McNall, An
                                                Agricultural History of the Genesee Valley, 1790-1860 (
                                                Philadelphia
                                            , 1952), 151-53.
                              
                                 112 See footnote 65, above. Verse five of the hymn
                                            prays: "Teach us that death to shun" which leads to the
                                            "eternal horrors."
                           
                                     been keeping house nearly three weeks. Mr. H.
                                    owns a grist, & saw mill, also five acres of land & house. We have
                                    quite a pleasant situation, not quite half a mile from town. There are six trains
                                    through here in a day, depot not quite half a mile, from us. Our house is not very
                                    large, but then I think it will answer our purpose, we have two bedrooms, one quite
                                    large so that I have two beds bureau, wash stand &[c] in it & there
                                    is plenty of room to moove about besides, we have also a parlor & kitchen
                                    & last though not least, I [have] one of the kindest of
                                    husbands, we have enjoyed ourselves well so far & I trust that the future
                                    has many bright days for us. How I wish you would all come & make us a
                                    visit.
                        Remember me to Silas, & Clarindia & family, tell Ellen that I saw
                                    that one eyed cat when I was at home, how glad I would be to see
                                    your children.
                        Please to write soon, dont put it off a single day.
                        
                                    Yours.
                                    Jane E. H.
                                
                        Direct to, Sandy, Columbiana Co. 
                                        Ohio
                                    .
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Emily Conine Dorsey to Mary Ann Conine Seymour
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Scipio [Indiana]
                           
                                    June 11th 1858
                                
                        Dear brother & sister
                        With pleasure I improve a few moments writing to you. we were very happy to hear from
                                    you. I received a letter both from father & Jane at the time I received
                                    yours. Jane had just returned from Perry but had not received her goods; she said
                                    they had painted and papered their house anew, & had got lots of furnature I
                                    expect she will out-shine us all. She should have some good things
                                    for we think she is wonderfully cheated in her man we disliked the match wonderfully
                                    and tried every means in our power to break it up but you might as well undertake to
                                    move the Alps, have him she would. Old Mr Skinner advised her to have him but no one
                                    else. She was married at our house. Horace was so mad he would not come to the
                                    wedding and I could not have felt much worse to have buried her. He has alway been
                                    engineer and that is all he knows I should want to have him run the mill both night
                                    & day for his abscense would [be] more agreeable than his presence. She has
                                    an idea that he is agoing to be rich, his father pretendes to give him
                                    1,000$ but we do not  think so Unless
                                    he manages better than we did while here he will soon run out of custom113 every one disliked him for being so overbearing you must
                                    take this letter for a match after you have read it I hope our worst fears will not
                                    be realized we will hope for the best. Jane did not teach last winter I had
                                    20$ a month had as high as 57 in a day, pleanty of business but a very
                                    pleasant time. Our school is not worth much this summer Horace was here yesterday
                                    they are all well. William Skinner was here not quite two weeks ago he is getting
                                    rich we are only in the shade and expect to be while we have such seasons as we have
                                    had for awhile and this beats all previous seasons people can do nothing it rains
                                    every other day and some of the time two & three days at a time it does not
                                    appear as though corn could come to any thing this year, poor people will suffr for
                                    they can get no work.
                        It will be wonderfu[l] bad building unless it comes of[f] dry pretty soon we expect
                                    the carpenters soon. I am in hopes we can get it to live in next winter for our hous
                                    roof is very poor indeed if it had been a good season we would have had it all done
                                    nice but the rains have made the roads so bad that it will be almost impossable to
                                    get to any place and John's health is very poor, he will not try to work
                                    much after the house is done he would be quite comfortable if he was able to live
                                    without work. Our dairy is quite small only three cows we lost 2 last fall and
                                    winter and sold the rest to build with butter 10 cts, hardly worth making. I have 36
                                    lbs of wool to spin this summer.
                        You say Clarinda thinks we do not care about her but she is mistaken neither
                                    H… nor I know whare to direct a letter to her if Mary-Jane will write and
                                    let us know whare to direct I would be very glad to hear from them and will answer
                                    all her letters114 I would be glad to see you all but the
                                    prospect is poor for us Mary can read in the 3 reder an spells in the first class
                                    but cannot sing a single tune She is quite tall which makes her look older than she
                                    is.
                        Good by for the present write soon
                        
                                    Emily D. Dorsey
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  113 Emily Conine Dorsey is here using the word custom in the sense of
                        patronage or trade.
               
                  114 Mary Jane, often called "Jennie," was the fourth
                        child of Lyman and Clarinda Conine Howard. She was born in 1846. Ruth Seymour Burmester to
                        Donald E. Baker, March 1, 1973.
            
            
            
                    Jane Conine Hawkins to Mary Ann Conine Seymour
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              Harlen [Indiana]115
                              
                           
                                    Dec 22, 1861
                                
                        Dear Sister.
                        While sitting here all alone this eavening listening to the pattering of the rain as
                                    it comes against the windows, I bethought me of your unanswred letter & I
                                    immediately arose got paper & ink, & &. now for a chat with
                                    you my ever patient sister Mary.
                        It is not often that I am alone of an eavening, but John was anxious to got to
                                    church; so I find myself with no companion but my little boy of four & a
                                    half months I will not attempt a description of him, for like evry other mother I am
                                    partial to my own little ones We had him to church to day for the first time save
                                    one. he did not much fancy the music, & I guess thought he could do as well
                                    himself & indeed he sang a delightful chorus. One old
                                    shouting methodest sayes that he is sure he will be one of the noisey crew. Horace
                                    thinks he will do for a minister & &. pardon me for writing so much
                                    on this subject, remembering that one bright bud was suddenly transplanted to a more
                                    genial clime116 therefore it is with the greater anxiety that I
                                    watch this little one his name & then I am done. Clarence
                                    Merton. have I stolen from you?117 well then you may
                                    pay the forfeit, any thing nice
                        Horace was here last week to mill I see him & Emily quite often & I
                                    expect them all here next sunday as it is quartly meeting.118
                                    how I wish you could be with us. Just 
                              
                                 115 The town of Harlan was platted in 
                                                Springfield
                                             Township, 
                                                Allen County
                                            , Indiana, in 1853. In 1859 John Hawkins erected the Maysville
                                            flouring mill there. This John Hawkins may have been Jane Conine's
                                            father-in-law, who, it seems, sold out to his son and a man named Anderson.
                                            See Brant & Fuller, Valley of the Upper Maumee
                                            River, I, 351; [T. B. Helm], History of 
                                                    Allen County
                                                , Indiana … (
                                                Chicago
                                            , 1880), 175; George W. Hawes & Co., pubs., Indiana State Gazetteer and Business Directory, for 1862 and 1863 (
                                                Indianapolis
                                            , 1862), 117.
                              
                                 116 Jane Conine Hawkins' first child, a
                                            daughter, died in infancy. Ruth Seymour Burmester to Donald E. Baker, March
                                            1, 1973.
                              
                                 117 Mary Ann Conine Seymour's third child,
                                            Merton Eugene, was born in 1858. Ibid.
                              
                              
                                 118 In the nineteenth century, quarterly meetings were
                                            conferences of the preachers, officials, and leaders of Methodist Episcopal
                                            churches within a small geographical area. These conferences had general
                                            oversight of the "whole temporal and spiritual matters of the
                                            charge." Matthew Simpson, ed., Cyclopedia of
                                                Methodism: Embracing Sketches of its Rise, Progress, and Present
                                                Condition, with Biographical Notices and Numerous Illustrations (
                                                Philadelphia
                                            , 1878), 739.
                           
                                     come & make us a visit this winter.
                                    Times are very dull here, when will this [civil] war end & what will BE THE
                                    END. a great many have gone from here, several have died with the camp fever
                                    & a number more are sick, our two last regiments are in 
                                        Kentucky
                                    , they are expecting a hard battle there soon.119 it
                                    seemes hard to think of the suffering & distress, which a few aspiring men
                                    have already caused & but little prospect of a speedy termination, of our
                                    difficulties. My love to all. write soon;
                        
                                    Jane E. Hawkins
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
                    Derrick Conine to Silas and Mary Ann Conine Seymour
                
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              [postmarked Perry Centre, 
                                    New York
                                 ]
                           
                                    April the 1 1863
                                
                        Dear children
                        I reseaved your leter wich was a grate consolation to me to hear that you was well we
                                    [are as] well as comin but I sea that I fail and can dew but litel the old peopel of
                                    my age and thare abouts are most all gon120 we have had A verry
                                    pleasent winter I s[h]old like to sea you all wonce more but that is verry uncertain
                                    I am glad that [Lyman] howerd has started one more plan to get rich and I hope he
                                    will succead this time I have forgottin wat county they live in so [when] I rite I
                                    will rite to you and you hand it to them tel hur that I wold like to sea hur verry
                                    much but my mind has be come so that it is hard to compose any thing to rite and tel
                                    them grand children that I often think of them and wold like to sea them the[y are]
                                    all un none to me
                        
                                    Derrick Conine
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  119 The Thirtieth Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment was organized at 
                            Fort Wayne
                         on September 24, 1861, under Colonel Sion S. Bass and moved to Camp Nevin, 
                            Kentucky
                        , on October 9, 1861. The Forty-Fourth Indiana Volunteer Infantry Regiment, under
                        Colonel Hugh B. Reed, rendezvoused at 
                            Fort Wayne
                         on October 24, 1861, and crossed into 
                            Kentucky
                         at Hendersonville on December 11, 1861. Although the year 1861 ended without the
                        anticipated clash in 
                            Kentucky
                        , both of the 
                            Allen County
                         area regiments soon saw all the action they could have desired, the Forty-Fourth at
                        the seige of Ft. Donelson in February, 1862, and both units at 
                            Shiloh
                         the following April. [William H. H. Terrell], Report of the Adjutant
                            General of the State of Indiana (8 vols., 
                            Indianapolis
                        , 1865-1869), II, 299, 438-39; John H. Rerick, The Forty-Fourth Indiana
                            Volunteer Infantry: History of Its Services in the War of the Rebellion and a Personal
                            Record of Its Members (
                            Lagrange
                        , Ind., 1880), 20-23.
               
                  120 Derrick Conine was sixty-six years old in 1863.
            
         
         
         
            Book Reviews
            
               The Diary of Calvin Fletcher. Volume II, 1838-1843: Including
                        Letters to and from Calvin Fletcher. Edited by Gayle Thornbrough and Dorothy L. Riker. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1973. Pp. xx, 611. Notes, illustrations, index.
                    $10.00.)
            Calvin Fletcher was one of the earliest and most prominent residents of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and a diarist able and willing to comment informatively on people and events in his
                    town, state, and nation. The period covered by this second published volume of Fletcher's
                    diary coincides with the most severe recession in antebellum America, and the political and economic
                    consequences of this recession in 
                        Indianapolis
                     and Indiana provided much of the substance of Fletcher's entries. Like other
                    speculators, Fletcher saw the economic promise of the early 1830s fade during the late 1830s and
                    early 1840s as investments in land, internal improvements, and other enterprises threatened to bring
                    insolvency rather than profit. Fletcher's careful accounting of his assets and liabilities
                    shows that he weathered the storm more successfully than most of his contemporaries, in part because
                    his debt collection business provided substantial returns.
            In addition to recording his financial trials and those of others, Fletcher also commented
                    extensively on the conflict that centered around the State Bank of Indiana and especially its 
                        Indianapolis
                     branch—a conflict that generated the primary economic and political debates
                    of these years. As a director of the State Bank and later of the 
                        Indianapolis
                     branch, Fletcher was a participant as well as an observer in the local bank war. The
                    diary provides information on this subject unavailable elsewhere, although Fletcher's
                    financial conservatism, especially on the subject of credit, and his anti-Jacksonian political
                    persuasion gave a definite bias to his analysis of events. Despite professed desires to retire to a
                    farm, Fletcher devoted increasing attention to banking and by the end of this volume is well on the
                    way to becoming the city's leading banker and its wealthiest citizen.
            The diary contains much more than business and political commentary. Fletcher was a man of wide
                    ranging interests and activities. He was a leader in organizations devoted to religion, temperance,
                    colonization of blacks, charity,  and education, and he was very
                    much interested in agriculture, devoting thought and study as well as occasional manual labor to his
                    farm lands outside 
                        Indianapolis
                    . In his leisure time he read Alexis de Tocqueville, George Bancroft, and William E.
                    Channing and kept up a large correspondence with family members traveling or resident in the East.
                    Fletcher's diary also provides an abundance of local color in its descriptions of people
                    and events in everyday 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Gayle Thornbrough and Dorothy L. Riker have added greatly to the value of
                    Fletcher's almost daily scribblings. Their excellent editorial work includes a survey
                    introduction, chronology, index, and full and informative notes, often derived from such primary
                    sources as newspapers and manuscript collections. Although scholars working in almost any aspect of
                    the period will find something of value simply by using the index, the diary provides such
                    informative and entertaining reading that anyone interested in the past will benefit from this
                    opportunity to know Calvin Fletcher and his contemporaries.
            
                    Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
                
            James H. Madison
         
         
            
               Indiana University: Midwestern Pioneer. Volume II, In
                    Mid-Passage. By Thomas D. Clark. (
                        Bloomington
                    : Indiana University Press, 1973. Pp. xviii, 429. Illustrations, bibliography, index.
                    $17.50.)
            Indiana University has fared well in the hands of its most recent historian, Thomas D. Clark, in the
                    second volume of his Indiana University: Midwestern Pioneer. In this volume Clark
                    describes the university during the first third of this century dispassionately, with humor, and
                    with awareness of other educational developments in the Midwest.
            Because of William Lowe Bryan's protracted term as president of Indiana University from 1902
                    to 1937, Clark inevitably gives considerable attention to Bryan and to his policies. Clark assesses
                    Bryan's career judiciously, though one suspects that he may well have agreed with
                    Bryan's friend and colleague, President Lotus D. Coffman of the University of 
                        Minnesota
                    , who, when Bryan told him of his intended retirement, replied: "Fine, you
                    should have done so ten years ago" (p. 385).
            
            Clark does not shrink from reporting the unpleasant truth that Hoosiers did not have a distinguished
                    state university at the end of Bryan's term in 1937. Indiana then compared unfavorably by
                    most standard academic criteria (per cent of faculty with doctorates, number of faculty listed in
                        Who's Who, amount spent on research, size of library) with most of
                    the other midwestern state universities. Fighting for the bottom position with it in several
                    categories was Purdue, its arch rival in 
                        West Lafayette
                    . Such a situation is an indictment both of the presidential leadership (or lack of it)
                    and of the state legislature. Customarily the responsiveness of the legislature to the
                    university's needs is influenced by the persuasiveness of the president. Clark accurately
                    notes that Bryan found it difficult temperamentally to deal in the slightly disreputable arena of
                    Indiana state politics.
            Bryan prided himself on increasing the enrollment at Indiana during his tenure as president, and he
                    was correct in noting the tremendous increase in the number of students. Whether this should be
                    regarded as a major achievement, however, is another question, for burgeoning enrollments were
                    typical of all the state universities and many of the private ones as well during this period. Clark
                    notes as one of Bryan's accomplishments that he fought "to make his institution a
                    university instead of a normal school" (p. 395). Again, this seems a modest achievement
                    since Indiana never really was in danger of being a normal school, although like many other colleges
                    in the late nineteenth century many of its graduates went into teaching. Their vocational choice was
                    determined much more by vagaries of the employment market than by their college curriculum. The
                    professional schools which Indiana added during Bryan's presidency were rare in the
                    nineteenth century, and most institutions added them or expanded them only in the twentieth century.
                    If anything, Indiana was a little slow in making the additions.
            In one of his most perceptive sections Clark notes the prestige of administrators during the latter
                    years of Bryan's presidency. Promising faculty members were often promoted to department
                    chairmanships or to deanships, both of which paid considerably more than professorships. The
                    additional money and stature that came with these positions were lures to keep the professors at
                    Indiana, but as Clark observes: "It was rare for a man of creative talents to make
                    significant  scholarly contributions after he had accepted an
                    administrative assignment" (p. 373). Nonetheless, such was the prestige at Indiana and many
                    other state universities that able professors deserted scholarship for petty administration, thereby
                    depriving the institutions in the long run from achieving academic eminence. Bryan's
                    successor, Herman B Wells, with whose assumption of the presidency Clark concludes this volume, knew
                    better and encouraged subsequent Indiana professors to remain scholars. This action finally brought
                    intellectual distinction to the university.
            Much of the charm of this volume lies in Clark's amused accounts of various nonacademic
                    aspects of life at Indiana, including the Book Nook, athletics, and, especially, the unenviable role
                    of the dean of women during the early years of Bryan's administration. Clark describes
                    Bryan's ideal candidate for this difficult position as "Lydia Pinkham and
                    Whistler's mother draped in a sorority gown and adorned with a master's
                    degree" (p. 29). Such a paragon was hard to find and harder to keep.
            
                    Barnard College, 
                            Columbia
                         University
                
            Patricia Albjerg Graham
         
         
            
               Biography of Joseph Neef, Educator in the Ohio Valley,
                        1809-1854. By Charles W. Hackensmith. (
                        New York
                    : Carlton Press, Inc., 1973. Pp. 306. Illustrations, notes, appendix, index.
                    $7.95.)
            Joseph Neef is best known to Hoosiers as the schoolmaster at 
                        New Harmony
                     who conducted a school in Owenite days that featured "modern"
                    education. He was a disciple of Johann Heinrich Pestalozzi, the German Swiss originator of the
                    system of learning by observation and by doing rather than from textbooks or from teachers. These
                    principles are now firmly imbedded in the educational systems of today, and it is enlightening to
                    read about some of their origins in the late eighteenth and early nineteenth centuries.
            Professor Hackensmith tells the story of Neef's background in Europe, his days in the army
                    of Napoleon Bonaparte, his teaching experience at Pestalozzi's school at Burg-dorf in 
                        Switzerland
                    , his coming to America, and his schools in 
                  Pennsylvania, Ohio
               , and 
                        Kentucky
                    . For several reasons— his modernity, his lack of business ability, and his
                    not always  pleasing personality—Neef was never
                    completely successful. He was therefore glad to join Robert Owen's 
                        New Harmony
                     adventure but did not stay there very long, either.
            There is a need for a good biography of Joseph Neef, although, because Neef is a secondary character
                    in the 
                        New Harmony
                     saga and even in the history of American education, a full length book is perhaps not
                    called for. Hackensmith has been commendably industrious about assembling all the material there is
                    about Neef from the resources of the 
                        New Harmony
                     library, the Indiana State Historical Society Library, the 
                        Illinois
                     State Historical Survey at the University of 
                        Illinois
                    , and other places. He treats in considerable detail all of the characters in 
                        New Harmony
                     and quotes entire letters and documents, most of which, except the Neef papers, are
                    available in print elsewiiere.
            In fact there is so much ancillary material that Neef is lost in the maze. A good many years ago,
                    Richard W. Leopold, himself the author of one of the best books about 
                        New Harmony
                     personalities, Robert Dale Owen, and the director of this reviewer's
                    biographical effort about David Dale Owen when it was a doctoral dissertation, said that a
                    biographer should never let his typewriter stray from his subject. Regrettably, Hackensmith has not
                    followed this first precept of the biographer; it is not until the beginning of chapter four on page
                    fifty-three that Neef is even mentioned. Even after that the reader is continually led into long
                    diversions about Pestalozzi and his educational theories, Robert Owen's enthusiasms, the
                    mechanical contributions of Oliver Evans, or the peculiarities of William Maclure. It is only with
                    hard work and much use of the index (fortunately it is satisfactory) that one can follow
                    Neef's life and career through the book.
            This volume has typographical, spelling, and other errors (this reviewer's name is given as
                    "William," for example). A few discrepancies appear in the footnotes, and other
                    faults exist that one frequently finds in privately printed books. Every author needs an
                    editor! But if one wants to find out a little about the persons involved in the 
                        New Harmony
                     experiment or about Pestalozzianism in the 
                        United States
                    , he can do so in Hackensmith's book. Its most important contribution to New
                    Harmonyana is the printing of some of Neef's letters which were collected and translated
                         by Nathaniel A. Teitlebaum many years ago when the latter
                    contemplated doing a biography of Neef.
            
                    MacMurray College, 
                            Jacksonville
                        , III.
                
            Walter B. Hendrickson
         
         
            
               Memoirs, Official, and Personal. By Thomas L. McKenney. Introduction by Herman
                    J. Viola. Paperback edition. (Lincoln: University of 
                        Nebraska
                     Press, 1973. Pp. xxvii, 340. Notes, illustration, appendix. Paperbound,
                    $3.95.)
            The Indian is in our national conscience. Now is the time to write about the native American and
                    about those non-Indians, such as Thomas Loraine McKenney, the 
                        United States
                    ' last superintendent of Indian trade (1816-1822) and first superintendent of
                    the Bureau of Indian Affairs (beginning in 1824), who have understood Indian rights and sympathized
                    with Indian grievances.
            A 
                        Quaker
                     humanitarian-reformer and admirer of James 
                        Madison
                    , McKenney defended federal management of Indian trading posts, believed that the Indian
                    had the "capacity… for the highest attainments in civilization" (p.
                    34), and attacked repeatedly white injustice, bad faith, and cruelty toward the Indian and the
                    government's "radically, fatally wrong" (p. 238) Indian policies. In
                    spite of McKenney's integrity, honesty, and conscientious direction of the Indian Bureau,
                    President Andrew Jackson fired him in 1830, ending McKenney's career in public office.
            McKenney's Memoirs, published originally in two volumes in 1846, tell far
                    more about the public figure than the private man. A contemporary reviewer estimated correctly that
                    the volumes were of "slender value in a literary sense," and Herman J. Viola,
                    director of the National Anthropological Archives of the Smithsonian Institution, comments in his
                    introduction to this edition that the Memoirs did not "refurbish his
                    [McKenney's] public image, silence his critics, [or] pave the way for a restoration to
                    office" (p. xxvii). Nonetheless, the Memoirs are generally accurate and
                    still palatable. They tell a lot about McKenney's life as a second string federal
                    bureaucrat, give the day by day details of his long western tour in 1827, and show how and why he
                    became an Indian advocate.
            
            In addition to the Memoirs, McKenney also published a record of his first (1824)
                    journey to Indian country, entitled Sketches of a Tour to the Lakes, and between
                    1836 and 1844 published a folio edition of the many Indian portraits he had commissioned earlier.
                    The portraits and other Indian materials that he collected while in office established his
                    reputation as a pioneer ethnologist—a reputation that blended with his successful effort
                    of 1819 to persuade Congress to finance Indian schools and with his humanitarian plans for
                    resettling eastern tribes in the West.
            The current market for books on the Indian has encouraged new editions of McKenney's works.
                    In 1972 the portraits were republished with a vivid biographical sketch of McKenney by James D.
                    Horan. The Sketches were reprinted recently with a short introduction by Viola,
                    who has also introduced succinctly this new edition of the Memoirs. The original
                    documentary appendix of volume one is included, but the publisher failed to add either an index or a
                    map. Volume two, largely a collection of McKenney's speeches, was not reprinted. Yet, it
                    seems accurate to say, quoting the North American Review of October, 1846, that
                    "the purpose and spirit of this book place it aside from the technical canons of
                    criticism" because, given all the limitations of memoirs, it "is the tribute of a
                    sincere philantropist to a cause to which he [gave]… the substantial efforts and costly
                    sacrifices of many years" (The North American Review, LXII, 481).
            
                    University of 
                            Texas
                        , Austin
                
            John E. Sunder
         
         
            
               Riches, Class, and Power before the Civil War. By Edward Pessen. (
                        Lexington
                    , Mass.: D. C. Heath and Company, 1973. Pp. 378. Notes, illustrations, tables, maps,
                    appendices, bibliography, index. $7.95.)
            The fascination for high society so long monopolized by novelists, adoring biographers, and debunking
                    journalists is finally sparking serious historiography. Edward Pessen's analysis of the
                    upper upper one per cent in 
                  New York, Brooklyn, Boston
               ,
                    and 
                        Philadelphia
                     in the quarter century before the Civil War is an exhaustively researched analysis of
                    wealth (not income) distribution, family background, residential  preferences, marital choice, club life, and political influence. It is the best such study to
                    date and hopefully will stimulate further research. But that stimulus should come more from
                    Pessen's superb bibliography of sources and social science rather than from his refusal to
                    use either the best analytic techniques available or even crude shortcuts.
            Two disappointing examples of inferior technique deserve sharp criticism. In his key chapters on the
                    distribution of wealth and on the change in fortunes over time, Pessen presents his carefully
                    collected data in such garbled fashion that neither the layman nor the expert can interpret it
                    easily. This charge is reinforced by the fact that Pessen misinterprets his own tables. Each of his
                    tables on wealth distribution uses different categories (for example, a $30,000 to
                    $75,000 category in one table, $35,000 to $90,000 in the next,
                    $50,000 to $70,000 in another). Comparison over time or between cities is thus
                    rendered very difficult, and Pessen refuses to use well established summary measures which would
                    make comparisons simple for anyone. Later, when trying to prove that fortunes seldom rose or fell
                    precipitously, Pessen faced a problem easily solved by simple regression analysis. Instead he
                    presents a bewildering variety of tables, each constructed differently, and draws the wrong
                    conclusions. Of thirty-five very large 
                        Boston
                     fortunes assessed in 1837 and the 1840s, fifteen declined in size (by an average of
                    fifty-two per cent), while only two grew faster than six per cent per year. In 
                        New York
                     between 1845 and 1856, merely eighteen per cent of the 945 men worth $45,000
                    to $100,000 or $100, 000 to $250,000 moved into a higher wealth
                    bracket, while thirty-nine per cent remained stationary, thirty-two per cent declined, and the
                    remaining eleven per cent were not on the tax rolls because of death, removal, or poverty. Pessen
                    avows that he has provided "the most powerful refutations of the [Tocquevillan] thesis that
                    fortunes were made and lost overnight and circulated with inconceivable rapidly in antebellum
                    America" (p. 146). It is baffling to conceive what evidence (outside the South from 1860 to
                    1870) Pessen would think sustains Alexis de Tocqueville's thesis.
            Pessen would have reached a different conclusion if he had correlated his data statistically instead
                    of impression-istically. Table 7-4, showing the 1845 wealth of the rich New Yorkers of 1828, is
                    illustrative. Using a few minor assumptions  necessitated by the
                    crude data displays, correlations and regression coefficients can be calculated. (This reviewer
                    assumed half the 1828 men not on the 1845 tax list were dead or removed, and the other half had mean
                    wealth of $5,000, and that the mean of the richest categories in both years was 1.5 times
                    its lower limit.) Then for 443 men worth $25,000 or more in 1828, the correlation with
                    their wealth in 1845 was a very low +.36 and the best prediction of a random rich man's
                    holdings in 1845 was ninety per cent of his 1828 wealth plus $50,000. This shows
                    remarkable turnover in fortune in the span of seventeen years. Put another way, the holdings of rich
                    men in 1828 explain only thirteen per cent of the pattern of holdings of the same men half a
                    generation later.
            Many analytical shortcomings mar Pessen's book. His measurement techniques are crude
                    (assessed wealth times six equals true wealth), and he equates class with money. He shows that many
                    rich girls married rich boys, but he ignores the web of marital interrelationships, the functions of
                    dowries, and the incidence of interclass (or interwealth group) marriage.
            Pessen's bibliography testifies that he is aware of modern techniques (though he misses Inequality by Christopher Jencks, which provides the techniques he lacks).
                    Instead, the author harks back to the classical narrative historians— George Bancroft one
                    supposes he means—neglecting the analytical heritage of Frederick Jackson Turner and
                    Charles A. Beard. But Bancroft's style was not honed by following a short insight with long
                    repetitive lists of names every few pages. Pessen's readers would have been better served
                    by scattergrams than his scattergun method.
            
                    Newberry Library and University of 
                     Illinois, Chicago
                  
               
                
            Richard Jensen
         
         
            
               Catharine Beecher: A Study in American Domesticity. By Kathryn Kish Sklar. (
                        New Haven
                    : Yale University Press, 1973. Pp. xv, 356. Illustrations, notes, bibliography, index.
                    $12.50.)
            The eldest of Lyman Beecher's children, Catharine, shared her father's social
                    consciousness and evangelical zeal.  Her career began in 1823
                    when she opened a school for girls which under her capable leadership expanded into the 
                        Hartford
                     Female Seminary. In efforts to improve the school's curriculum she was one of
                    the first educators to utilize visual aids and to institute calisthenics in a physical education
                    program for girls.
            Concerned about the problems and prejudices she and her peers faced because of their gender Catharine
                    Beecher sought ways to improve the status of women. Drawing upon her Calvinist heritage she
                    interpreted the virtues of self sacrifice and submission to give women more importance in society.
                    Women might contribute to the welfare of family and community by sacrificing personal inclinations
                    and needs which conflicted with those of others. Men in positions of power in the wider spheres of
                    life would be encouraged by such an unselfish example, she reasoned, to emulate it in their lives,
                    thereby benefiting state and nation. This doctrine of self sacrifice gained acceptance since it
                    accorded women an honorable position while not disturbing social order and unity.
            Catharine Beecher conceived her vocation to be that of educating women to become teachers in the
                    West. An adept publicist and fund raiser, she worked through such organizations as the Ladies
                    Society for Promoting Education at the West and the Central Committee for Promoting National
                    Education to create interest, recruit prospective teachers, and obtain financial assistance for her
                    cause. Largely through her efforts scores of women, including nine who migrated to Indiana in 1847,
                    received academic instruction and professional education prior to becoming teachers.
            Catharine Beecher wrote prolifically on the topics of domestic economy, education, moral philosophy,
                    and theology. Her A Treatise on Domestic Economy brought her national recognition
                    and financial independence. Encouraging the standardization of many domestic practices, it is
                    considered a pioneer work on household automation.
            Major emphasis in this biography is devoted to the impact of her gender in shaping the direction of
                    Catharine Beecher's life and thought. The analysis of the development of her views
                    regarding the proper role for women in nineteenth century America is a valuable addition to the
                    literature about the women's rights movement. The book is less satisfactory  in its treatment of Catharine Beecher's significant
                    educational innovations, advocacy of professional education for teachers, and the considerable
                    influence she exerted upon her remarkable siblings.
            Three examples will indicate the nature of errors present. Reference to Samuel P. Chase (p. 133)
                    should have been to Salmon P. Chase. Edward Beecher is cited (p. 133) as the only Beecher involved
                    in the abolitionist movement in 1837, yet George Beecher was active in the 
                        Ohio
                     State Anti-Slavery Society a year earlier. To assert that George Beecher committed
                    suicide (pp. 140, 147) seems unwarranted when in the author's notes (p. 305) it is stated
                    that the coroner ruled his death accidental.
            
                    North 
                            Manchester
                        , Indiana
                
            Jane Shaffer Elsmere
         
         
            
               Henry Ward Beecher: The Indiana Years, 1837-1847. By Jane Shaffer Elsmere. (
                        Indianapolis
                    : Indiana Historical Society, 1973. Pp. xiii, 317. Illustrations, notes, bibliographical
                    note, index. $7.50.)
            Henry Ward Beecher spent the opening ten years of his ministry in Indiana, first at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                    , then as pastor of Second Presbyterian Church in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . It was a decade of preparation for the young Beecher, whose ambition seemed always too
                    large for his western parishes. He accepted the pastorate at 
                        Lawrenceburg
                     because of its proximity to 
                        Cincinnati
                    , where his famous father, Lyman Beecher, presided over Lane Seminary and New School
                    Presbyterians. Henry Ward's call to the more promising 
                        Indianapolis
                     post in 1839 raised the father's hope that a Beecher would be in the vanguard
                    of converting the West. It placed the son in intimate contact with state leaders and gave him a
                    pulpit worthy of his oratory. He used the 
                        Indianapolis
                     experience to broaden his intellectual interests in numerous directions: horticulture,
                    writing, mesmerism, temperance, education, anti-slavery, evangelism, polity. By the close of his
                    Indiana residency he enjoyed a national reputation as the rising scion of the Beecher clan.
            Elsmere strictly limits her study to the period described in the title. She draws no comparisons
                    between the young pastor and the mature 
                        New York
                     divine. Searching through  various collections of
                    Beecher family papers, the author discovered less of the budding reformer than of the pampered
                    preacher, an elitist who hobnobbed with the wealthy while his debts piled up. Although equipped with
                    physical courage, he cowered before public opinion, hesitating to rankle audiences over sensitive
                    issues. Late in his 
                        Indianapolis
                     tenure Beecher delivered two unemotional antislavery sermons only after local debate
                    became too hot to ignore. As a reformer he felt more comfortable fighting prostitution and gambling,
                    subjects included in his first major publication, Seven Lectures to Young Men. His
                        Lectures had the additional asset of earning him recognition in eastern
                    churches.
            This book leaves some judgments unclear. Elsmere's admirable insistence on thorough
                    documentation at each step of her narrative seems to inhibit her from gathering loose ends into firm
                    conclusions. Readers will learn that Eunice Beecher was considered a liability to her
                    husband's work and that he was attractive to women; but they will have to guess about the
                    true nature of the Beecher marriage. The idea that Beecher left 
                        Indianapolis
                     under an onus of failure because he "never endeared himself as a pastor to his
                    church" (p. 297) is difficult to reconcile with his popularity as a preacher and his deep
                    involvement in church work. In most respects the documentation clarifies the complex Beecher
                    personality at an important period of his development. The man's wit, egoism, and essential
                    brilliance are carefully presented.
            Elsmere, a native Hoosier, wrote on Beecher because she "wanted to know the daily
                    circumstances of his life and the people he encountered" during his Indiana years (p. ix).
                    Her work is valuable as social history as well as biography. There are the usual struggles against
                    disease and death, the attempts to smooth with eastern sophistication the roughness of a young
                    western city. Beyond that there is fresh reconstruction of routine concerns of middle and upper
                    class residents of the new urban West. Like Beecher, 
                        Indianapolis
                     was in its formative years. Also like Beecher, his neighbors had every confidence they
                    were still in control of their destinies.
            
                    Indiana University, 
                            Bloomington
                        
               
                
            W. William Wimberly II
         
         
         
            
               Abraham Lincoln: Theologian of American Anguish. By Elton Trueblood. (
                        New York
                    : Harper & Row Publishers, 1973. Pp. ix, 149. Notes, index. $4.95.)
            Elton Trueblood has written a short but significant work devoted not to Abraham Lincoln's
                    religion but to his religious thinking. One of the most important features of the
                    president's religious thinking, according to Trueblood, was that the Illinoisan's
                    theology underwent significant development from 1841 to 1862. As a result of his broken engagement
                    with Mary Todd in 1841, the death of a son in 1850, the death of another son in 1862, and the
                    growing abolition agitation, Lincoln's theology matured. Ended forever was the
                    light-hearted irreverence of Lincoln's youth. Central to his new spiritual development was
                    the belief that he was acting less and less on his own wishes and was becoming more and more the
                    instrument of God's will.
            In connection with this development, Trueblood also stresses that Lincoln became profoundly aware
                    that God acts in history. He believed that God not only dealt with individuals but also with nations
                    and that the Civil War was a terrible penalty God placed on America for the guilt of cherishing
                    slavery. Just as he maintained that the country was being punished for slavery, the president also
                    believed God had plans for a better America. His concern then was to learn what God's will
                    for America was. Lincoln's overwhelming conviction, the author relates, was that
                    God's will could be partly known and that the only hope for finite men lay in conformity to
                    that will.
            Professor Trueblood also states, but in a less convincing manner, that Lincoln outmaneuvered the
                    Radicals by making the Emancipation Proclamation a war measure rather than merely an act of detached
                    idealism. Many readers may doubt that the Radicals so emphasized abolition that they neglected the
                    need to preserve the Union, as Trueblood maintains, and they may ask for further clarification on
                    how the proclamation saved the Union and kept alive the opportunity for a life of freedom on the
                    part of all involved.
            According to the author, part of Lincoln's greatness was that he reached political decisions
                    at a level far deeper than that of politics. Underlying all of Lincoln's decisions was a
                    moral revulsion against slavery, a mystical sense of the importance  of the Union, and an abiding conviction that the divine order could be
                    ascertained and followed.
            It is apparent throughout the book that Trueblood admires Lincoln as one of the greatest figures in
                    American history, but was the president as profound a religious thinker as the author
                    depicts? The reader may wonder if what is at times presented in this book is really
                    Lincoln's religious thinking or is a careful mixture of Lincoln's theology and
                    Trueblood's theology.
            
                    Ball State University, 
                            Muncie
                        
               
                
            William G. Eidson
         
         
         
            Review Notices*
            
               History of the 
                            Orange County
                         Courthouse. Compiled by Arthur L. Dillard. (Paoli, Ind.: The author, 1973. Pp.
                    ix, 175. Illustrations. $6.50.) Dillard's book is a potpourri of items
                    concerning the present 
                        Orange County
                     Courthouse at Paoli, Indiana, and its two predecessor buildings. Much attention is
                    given to construction of the three successive courthouses as well as to their architecture and the
                    historical events associated with them. The present courthouse, an unusually attractive example of
                    Greek Revival architecture, was completed at the middle of the nineteenth century. Built at a cost
                    of only $13,561.85, it is one of Indiana's most prized courthouses. It replaced
                    a modest stone structure erected in the early years of statehood at a cost of $3,950.
                    This building had been contracted for $4,000. After some controversy the county
                    commissioners sought to dock the contractor, the well known 
                        Quaker
                    , Jonathan Lindley, $150 (p. 11), but arbiters gave Lindley most of the sum
                    in dispute. This episode may be unique as regards settlements with builders of Indiana courthouses,
                    but quibbling over small sums was anything but unique among Hoosier pioneers.
            
               The Lenni Lenape. By Raymond Davis. (
                        Evansville
                    : Unigraphic, Inc., under the auspices of the Anderson Library Association, Anderson,
                    Indiana, 1973. Pp. 89. Illustrations, maps. $7.00.) In this volume Raymond Davis of
                    Orestes, Indiana, gives his version of various episodes and highlights in the lives of the 
                        Delaware
                     Indians (the Lenni Lenape). His story covers the period from the time they were found
                    in the general area of the Delaware Valley in the East through their journeys
                    westward to their eventual location upon the Great Plains. Part of Davis' account concerns
                    their sojourn within what is now Indiana.
            
               The Rise and Fall of 
                     Toledo, Michigan
                  : The 
                            Toledo
                         War! By Sister Mary Karl George. John M. Munson 
                        Michigan
                     History Fund. (Lansing: 
                        Michigan
                     Historical Commission, 1971. Pp. 84. Illustrations, notes, suggestions for further
                    study, index. Paperbound, $1.50.) Although state and county boundaries across the nation
                    are now generally staunchly adherred to, such was not always the case in the 
                  * Unless otherwise indicated all review notices are written by the editor of
                            the Indiana Magazine of History.
                  
               
                     early days of the American republic. Sister George recounts, in
                    a popular manner, the rivalry between 
                        Michigan
                     and 
                        Ohio
                     over a narrow strip of land extending from the northeastern corner of Indiana across to
                    Lake Erie. The controversy, which simmered for a third of a century between 
                        Ohio
                    's admission to statehood in 1803 and 
                        Michigan
                    's entrance into the Union in 1836, was principally over the possession of 
                        Toledo
                     as a coveted port on Lake Erie. The flak from the so called 
                        Toledo
                     War—which had no human casualties despite much blustering and some
                    positioning of troops—at least indirectly raised questions about the legal and
                    constitutional status of boundaries for all states carved from the Old Northwest. In the end 
                        Ohio
                     won the disputed strip, but 
                        Michigan
                     received the Upper Peninsula as a consolation. Ironically, 
                        Toledo
                    , which many expected to become perhaps the leading city of the Old Northwest, proved to
                    be secondary to both 
                        Detroit
                     and 
                        Chicago
                    , while the Upper Peninsula, which many contemporaries viewed as worthless, proved
                    unusually valuable because of its timber and mineral wealth. The decision, with President Andrew
                    Jackson acting as political midwife in pursuit of 
                        Ohio
                    's significant electoral vote, was decided more on the basis of ballots than
                    either bullets or legal and constitutional principles.
            
               Sketches of a Tour to the Lakes, of the Character and Customs of the Chippeway Indians,
                        and of Incidents Connected with the Treaty of Fond du Lac. By Thomas L. McKenney. Reprint.
                    (Barre, Mass.: Imprint Society, 1972. Pp. xx, 414. Illustrations, notes, appendix.
                    $40.00.) Though less well known today than he should be, McKenney was an important figure
                    in the development of American Indian policy from 1816 until his administrative head was severed by
                    Andrew Jackson's patronage axe in 1830. This volume, the content of which is suggested by
                    its lengthy title, is a reprinting of an edition which first appeared in 1827, but
                    with the "most glaring" errors in spelling, grammar, and topography
                    "silently emended" (p. xvi). A new feature which adds to the usefulness of this
                    work is an altogether too brief eleven page introduction in which Herman J. Viola gives a concise
                    account of McKenney's life and sets the context for his Sketches of a Tour to
                        the Lakes. Viola, who was assistant editor of the Indiana Magazine of
                    History during 1966 and 1967, is now completing a study of McKenney's  career, the anticipated early publication of which should be of
                    interest to numerous readers. In any comprehensive study of the evolution of American Indian policy
                    in the generation following the War of 1812, McKenney's role merits augmented
                    consideration.
            
               Guide to Manuscripts. Compiled by Katherine Harris. (
                        Iowa
                     City: State Historical Society of 
                        Iowa
                    , 1973. Pp. iv, 332. $3.50.) This Guide embraces a wide
                    variety as well as a large number of items collected by the State Historical Society of 
                        Iowa
                     since its founding in 1857. "Documents included," as the compiler
                    explains in the introduction, "are in manuscript, typescript, and some in printed form.
                    Each entry is listed alphabetically by the name of the collection, usually a person, organization,
                    or subject." Part of the entries are cross referenced by name or subject. A helpful tool
                    for researchers, including genealogists, the guide provides information concerning items relating to
                    national history or to that of other states. Passim items regarding
                    Indiana's history illustrate this point. For instance, there are entries concerning Eugene
                    V. Debs (pp. 88-89) and Benjamin Harrison (p. 129). State historical societies might make the
                    compilation of such a guide—or the updating of previously issued guides— a
                    part of their observance of the American Revolution Bicentennial.
            
               An Illustrated Handbook of Fire Apparatus with Emphasis on Nineteenth Century American
                        Pieces. By George Anne Daly and John J. Robrecht. (
                        Philadelphia
                    : Insurance Company of North America Archives Department, 1972. Pp. 128. Illustrations,
                    selected bibliography, appendices. $4.95.) The many pictures and meager commentary of
                    this volume tell the story of fire fighting equipment used in the 
                        United States
                     during the nineteenth century, though portions of the book cover times before and after
                    the 1800s. The illustrations are particularly informative in tracing the technological progress in
                    the development of fire fighting equipment from the early volunteer bucket brigades, prevalent in
                    most towns and cities in the early decades of the nineteenth century, to the more sophisticated fire
                    fighting methods of the initial decades of the early twentieth century.
            
            
               Carl Becker: On History & the Climate of Opinion. By Charlotte Watkins
                    Smith. Reprint. (Carbondale: Southern 
                        Illinois
                     University Press, 1973. Pp. xi, 225. Notes, bibliography, index. Paperbound,
                    $2.65.) This is a sympathetic study of the noted historian, Carl Becker, who died in
                    1945. His life, his writings, his status as a professional historian, and his role as a citizen are
                    all considered and evaluated. Becker's views about the writing of history, the
                    responsibility of historians to the generation in which they live, and the hurdles which fallible
                    humans face in their search for truth are interestingly presented.
         
         
            Author's Query: Eugene V. Debs
            Mr. Nick Salvatore, who is researching various aspects of the career of Eugene V. Debs, would
                    appreciate corresponding with anyone who has information relating to Debs, 1870-1895; William Riley
                    McKeen, 
                        Terre Haute
                     banker and railroad president; or general business development in 
                        Terre Haute
                     and 
                        Vigo County
                    , Indiana, 1870-1890. His address is 5358 Shafter Avenue, Oakland, 
                        California
                     94618.
         
      
      
         
         
      
   
