
    ----CITATION---- 
        Indiana Magazine of History, Volume 17, Issue 2, pages 117-210. 
        Digital Library Program, Indiana University (2007).
        http://webapp1.dlib.indiana.edu/imh/browse.do?query=volume:17+issue:2+year:1921&browseMode=source
    
    ----FULL TEXT----
        
      
         
         
      
      
         
         
            Methodism In Southwestern Indiana
            By JOHN E. IGLEHART
            
            (Continued)
            PETER CARTWRIGHT
                    AND HIS BOSWELL, MILBURN, THE BLIND MAN ELOQUENT.
            Of Peter Cartwright, Professor Sweet says:64
                    
                        "It is unnecessary to give an extended account here of this, perhaps the most famous
                            of all Methodist frontier preachers. His Autobiography, which reads like a
                            veritable fairy tale, is still sold and read by thousands, and through that medium his fame
                            has gone beyond the bounds of the Methodist church."
                    
                
            Next, if not equal in importance, to the Notes of Doddridge describing frontier life in the
                    up-country of the Alleghenies is the biography of Cartwright which describes the advancing frontier
                    in the valley of the 
                        Ohio
                     and 
                        Mississippi
                    . As a child, when moving to 
                        Kentucky
                     from 
                        Virginia
                    , where he was born, the party of emigrants camped for the night, and his father who was
                    on duty as sentinel, observing in the darkness what appeared to be a slowly moving object, shot it
                    with his rifle and it turned out to be an Indian. So near was the boy Peter to death. A life such as
                    he led in 
                        Kentucky
                     still farther west from the frontier in the mountains naturally developed in him the
                    ideals of physical prowess inseparable from a heroic age, which he exemplified in his own life
                    dealing with the rude, lawless and wicked elements, which, until finally eliminated, made war on the
                    circuit rider and his efforts to introduce Christianity among them.
            
               
                  64
                        Circuit Rider Days in Indiana, page 20.
            
            
            Accounts of dramatic scenes, of which Cartwright was the hero, only modestly referred to in his
                    biography, are given by Milburn in a volume profusely illustrating and describing in the spirit of
                    true romance the life of the early settlers in the Mississippi Valley.65
            
            Peter Cartwright's connection with Indiana Methodism was limited to the year he served on
                    the Salt River and 
                        Shelby
                     circuits in 
                        Kentucky
                     in 1805, when he crossed the Ohio river and preached in Indiana,
                    to his visit to the Busroe [Busseron] settlement in 1808, when he put the Shakers to flight, and
                    established the 
                        Vincennes
                     circuit, providing for its supply, and in the years 1812 and 1813 when he served as
                    presiding elder of the 
                        Wabash
                     district, which included within its bounds the 
                        Vincennes
                     and the Patoka circuits.
            He was a man of national celebrity, in the religious development of the west, and attended many
                    sessions of the general conference of the Methodist church. He was contemporaneous with Abraham
                    Lincoln in the early life of the latter in 
                        Illinois
                    , and defeated Lincoln as a candidate for the 
                        Illinois
                     legislature, the first time Lincoln ran for office, the only time he was ever defeated.
            William H. Milburn has furnished the best description of Cartwright which I have read. Milburn was
                    born in 
                        Philadelphia
                    , a neighbor acquaintance when a child, of the afterwards celebrated Dr. John
                    McClintock. At a very early age he lost the sight of one eye and the sight of the other was so
                    impaired as to make reading difficult, though he was able with much labor and pain to read a little,
                    and through it became an educated man and one of very high culture. At the age of twenty, in 1842,
                    he finished a course in McKendrie College at 
                  Jacksonville, Illinois
               , and
                    entered the ministry under Peter Cartwright, his first presiding elder. At the end of three years
                    his abilities as a natural orator attracted attention, and he was sent east to collect money for a
                    woman's college in the west.
            On his trip east, traveling by boat up the Ohio river, just before congress met
                    in 
                        Washington
                    , a number of congressmen were on the boat, and with the freedom of western life,
                    card-playing, whiskey-drinking and profanity developed, in which 
                  
                     65
                            The Lance, Cross and Canoe, 393 seq.
                  
               
                     some of the congressmen joined. On the Sabbath, Milburn was
                    invited to preach, which he did, and at the close of his sermon most sternly reprimanded the
                    congressmen for their conduct and condemned their action as an example of the representatives of a
                    great government. At the close of his address, he retired to his stateroom, and prepared to meet
                    some form of criticism for this bold attack. When the message did come it was in the form of a
                    contribution of a large sum of money for those days, together with an invitation on the part of the
                    congressmen to permit him to let his name be used in connection with the vacancy to one of the two
                    chaplaincies to congress.65a Before he left the boat he consented.
            He was, at the age of twenty-three or twenty-four, elected chaplain to congress, and a generation
                    later, in the nineties, was again chosen chaplain to the 
                        United States
                     senate. After ten years of service in the ministry, largely in the south, and after
                    having left the Methodist church and taken ordination as a priest in the Episcopal church, he
                    returned to the ministry of the Methodist church, a position which he held until his death. At the
                    end of ten years, his disability, resulting from his almost total blindness, disabled him from the
                    duties of the traveling ministry, and he settled in 
                        New York city
                     and devoted his life chiefly to lecturing, in which Dr. McClintock says he succeeded to
                    an unusual degree.
            The impressions of his early life, together with the ideals developed in the west, had taken
                    possession of him, and his books are devoted almost entirely to a description of the life and
                    character of the early west, especially the introduction of religion into that country. In his books
                    he describes Webster, Clay and Calhoun, whom he knew intimately while chaplain of congress. He was
                    intimately in touch with Washington Irving, William Cullen Bryant, Longfellow, and the leading men
                    of American letters. He was recognized throughout America as a man of highest culture. The 
                  
                            London
                         Athenaeum said of him at the time of his lectures in 
                        England
                     before 1860: "To the list of John Milton and other blind men eloquent must be
                    added the name of William Henry Milburn". He thus describes Peter Cartwright:66
                    
                  
                     65a
                            Ten Years of a Preacher's Life, W. H. Milburn, 110.
                  
                     66
                            Ten Years of a Preacher's Life, 38.
               
                    
                    
                        The first Sunday after our arrival we attended the Methodist church. It was a bright June
                            morning; the place, the people were all strange, and we felt the keen pang of loneliness
                            more on that first day in our Father's house than at any other time. While sadly
                            brooding over the dear old home far away, and thinking of the contrast between it and this
                            unfamiliar place, our attention was arrested by a strange apparition striding up the aisle.
                            All seemed whispering to their neighbors, "there he goes," and all eyes
                            were riveted upon a man of medium height, thick-set, with enormous bone and muscle, and
                            although his irongrey hair and wrinkled brow told of the advance of years, his step was
                            still vigorous and firm. His face was bronzed by exposure to the weather; he carried a white 
                                Quaker
                             hat in his hand, and his upper garment was a furniture calico dressing-gown,
                            without wadding. The truant breeze seemed to seize this garment by its skirt, and lifting it
                            to a level with his arm-pits, disclosed to the gazing congregation a full view of the copper
                            colored pantaloons and shirt of the divine–for he was a divine, and one worth a
                            day's journey to see and hear.
                        He had then been a backwoods preacher for nearly forty years, ranging the country from the
                            lakes to the gulf, and from the Alleghanies to the 
                                Mississippi
                            . He was inured to every form of hardship, and had looked calmly at peril of
                            every kind–the tomahawk of the Indian, the spring of the panther, the hug of the
                            bear, the sweep of the tornado, the rush of swollen torrents, and the fearful chasm of the
                            earth-quake. He had lain in the canebrake, and made his bed upon the snow of the prairie and
                            on the oozy soil of the swamp, and had wandered hunger-bitten amid the solitude of
                            mountains. He had been in jeopardy among robbers, and in danger from desperadoes who had
                            sworn to take his life. He had preached in the cabin of the slave, and in the mansion of the
                            master; to the Indians, and to the men of the border. He had taken his life in his hand, and
                            ridden in the path of whizzing bullets, that he might proclaim peace. He had stood on the
                            outskirts of civilization, and welcomed the first comers to the woods and prairies. At the
                            command of Him who said, "Go into all the world," he had roamed through
                            the wilderness; as a disciple of the man who said "The world is my
                            parish," his travels had equaled the limits of an empire. All this he had done
                            without hope of fee or reward; not to enrich himself or his posterity but as a preacher of
                            righteousness in the service of God and of his fellowmen. Everywhere he had confronted
                            wickedness, and rebuked it; every form of vice had shrunk abashed from his irresistible
                            sarcasm and ridicule, or quivered beneath the fiery look of his indignant invective.
                        In the character of the Christian minister might have been a slightly exaggerated infusion of
                            the frontiersman's traits. The whole line of his conduct may not have been marked
                            by the spirit of meekness, or guided by infallible wisdom; but let those who have been tried
                            as he was, and have overcome, as he has, be the first to throw the stone of censure at him.
                            Many a son of Anak has been leveled in the dust by his sledge-like fist; and when the blind
                            fury of his assailants urged them headlong into personal conflict with him, his agility;
                            strength, and  resolution gave them cause for bitter
                            repentance. Another Gideon, he has more than once led a handful of the faithful against the
                            armies of the aliens, who were desecrating the place of worship and threatening to abolish
                            religious services, and put them to inglorious flight. But he only girded on his strength
                            thus, and used the weapons that nature gave him, when necessity and the law of self-defense
                            seemed to admit of no escape. The vocation in which he gloried was that of an itinerant
                            preacher, his congenial sphere that of a pastor in the woods. To breathe the words of hope
                            into the ear of the dying, and to minister solace to the survivors; to take little children
                            up in his arms and bless them; to lead the flock over which the Holy Ghost had made him an
                            overseer, and to warn the ungodly of the error of their ways, entreating them to be
                            reconciled to God by the cross of Christ, was the business of his life. Learning he had
                            none, but the keenest perceptions and the truest instincts enabled him to read human nature
                            as men read a book; a sagacity rarely at fault, a powerful fancy, and a vivid sympathy, that
                            supplied the want of imagination–these, together with the dedication of his whole
                            soul to his work, and a studious and prayerful acquaintance with holy Scripture, made him a
                            workman that needed not to be ashamed.
                        A voice which, in his prime, was capable of almost every modulation, the earnest force and
                            homely directness of his speech, and his power over the passions of the human heart, made
                            him an orator to win and command the suffrages and sympathies of a western audience. And
                            ever through the discourse, came, and went, and came again, a humor that was resistless, now
                            broadening the features into a merry smile, and then softening the heart until tears stood
                            in the eyes of all. His figures and illustrations were often grand, sometimes fantastical.
                            Like all natives of a new country, he spoke much in metaphors, and his were borrowed from
                            the magnificent realm in which he lived. All forms of nature, save those of the sounding
                            sea, were familiar to him, and were employed with the easy familiarity with which children
                            use their toys. You might hear, in a single discourse, the thunder tread of a frightened
                            herd of buffaloes as they rushed wildly across the prairie, the crash of the windrow as it
                            fell smitten by the breath of the tempest, the piercing scream of the wildcat as it scared
                            the midnight forest, the majestic rhythm of the 
                                Mississippi
                             as it harmonized the distant east and west, and united, bore their tributes to
                            the far-off ocean; the silvery flow of a mountain rivulet, the whisper of groves, and the
                            jocund laughter of unnumbered prairie flowers, as they toyed in dalliance with the evening
                            breeze. Thunder and lightning, fire and flood, seemed to be old acquaintances, and he spoke
                            of them with the assured confidence of friendship. Another of the poet's attributes
                            was his–the impulse and power to create his own language; and he was the best
                            lexicon of western words, phrases, idioms, and proverbs, that I have ever met.
                        Such was the man that now stood before us in the dusk; the famous presiding elder of 
                                Illinois
                            –the renowned Peter Cartwright. All honor to the brave old man, who
                            still lives after an itinerancy of untold toil, hardship, and sufferings, which reaches
                            nearly to the verge of sixty  years, and is to-day as
                            indefatigable, zealous, and faithful as when in the prime of his strength. One feature of
                            his life I must not omit to mention, the fact that he has sold more books than probably any
                            man ever did in a new country. The Methodist economy enjoined it as a duty on the preacher
                            to diffuse a sound literature, and to place good books in the home of the people. Unwearied
                            here, as in everything else that he believed to be his duty, this minister never traveled,
                            if in a buggy, without a trunk, or if on horseback, without a pair of saddle-bags, crammed
                            with books. These he disposed of with all diligence, and has thus entitled himself to the
                            lasting gratitude of many a youth, who, but for him, might have slumbered on without
                            intelligence or education. I have dwelt upon the character of this man, not only because I
                            love and revere him, but because I know of no one who may more fitly stand as the type of
                            the pioneer preachers of the West–men whose worth, self-sacrifice, and labors,
                            have never had their need of recognition.
                    
                
            While Milburn was a man of northern birth and education, he early lived and married in 
                        Washington
                    , a city southern in its social life, and spent a large part of the time of his active
                    ministry in southern cities as a pastor and preacher, beginning in 
                        Illinois
                    . He was familiar with the life and times of the pioneer circuit rider in the west, both
                    north and south of the Ohio river, and he knew the writers of prominence in the
                    entire country in the early times, especially men of the south like Johnson J. Hooper, Augustus
                    Baldwin Longstreet, T. B. Thorpe, Albert James Pickett, and others, whose books upon pioneer life
                    and character in the southwest show the pioneers there to be in character and dialect only slightly
                    different from those of the northwest, as the historians also agree.
            More than any other writer I know, Milburn, in the middle of the last century,67
                    stood, not only a cosmopolitan American, but distinctively a representative common type of the
                    northwest and southwest. His almost total blindness seemed to enhance the vividness of his pictures
                    of the pioneer fathers of his time, both east and west. His appreciation of the best as well as the
                    worst side of human nature at the date of the establishment in the west of American democracy and
                    American methodism gives a wholesome and truthful picture of western character in contrast with the
                    apologies of certain writers of narrow vision, and the continuation in certain parts in the east, of
                    the antagonisms born in a sectional 
                  
                     67 This was still the pioneer age In Indiana, according to Parkman and
                            Bsarey.
               
                     struggle to prevent the political scepter from passing west of
                    the Allegheny mountains.68
            
            Milburn describes the fathers in early Methodism as follows:69
                    
                        From my earliest recollection my father's house had been a home for Methodist
                            preachers, and I had grown up with an ardent admiration and vehement affection for the
                            toil-worn veterans of the olden time. The fame of their sufferings and self-sacrifice, of
                            their simple faith and burning zeal, of their persecutions and successes, of their humor and
                            eloquence, was familiar to me. They were noble men, those fathers of American Methodism, and
                            worthy to be held in remembrance, Asbury, McKendree, George, Roberts, Emory, Merwin, Capers,
                            Hope, Hull, and their associates. Their venerable appearance, set off with straight-breasted
                            coats and vests and white cravats; their heads surmounted with broadbrimmed white beavers,
                            and their grave dignity, relieved and rendered more effective by rays of humor and pleasant
                            recitals of droll adventures, made a profound and lasting impression upon my childish fancy.
                            It was usual among people of our condition in 
                                Philadelphia
                            , to have "evening companies" several times a year, to which
                            the prominent preachers and their families, besides other members of the society, were
                            invited. I heartily wish that Mr. Dickens, whose chief ministerial acquaintances seem to
                            belong to the school of Stiggins and Chadband, could have been present on some of these
                            occasions. He would have seen representatives of hearty manhood that must have won his
                            admiring regard, and heard bursts of humor as genial and pathetic as his own.
                        They were men of a wide and varied acquaintance with life, and an experience of the deep
                            things of God; not lettered to any considerable extent, but reading human nature and its
                            histories at first-hand. The ardor of an early enthusiasm had not been toned down by
                            conventionalism, or chilled by skepticism and unbelief. The hardships, sufferings, and
                            dangers which they had cheerfully undergone, the smallness of their salaries, the
                            self-denying spirit which they were wont to manifest, together with their straightforward,
                            independent bearing, made them dear to the hearts of the people. The relations of pastors
                            and flock were of the most simple, friendly, and even intimate character; and whilst the
                            seriousness of a Christian bearing was never compromised, intercourse was beautified and
                            adapted to all sorts and classes of persons by an infusion of the most genial human
                            tenderness.
                        Never, I suppose, will food taste as sweet to me again as did the 
                        
                           68 Those writers who refuse to see the better side of western
                                    life and character prefer to confine their view to that class of low life described
                                    by Dr. Frederick J. Turner as "the scum that the waves of advancing
                                    civilization bore before them." "The significance of the frontier
                                    in American history."–Report Am. Hist. Assn.
                                    1893, 232. Turner's essays have only recently been gathered in one volume
                                    under the title, The Frontier in American History, which for the
                                    first time gives an adequately broad view of the birth and growth of American
                                    Democracy.
                        
                           69
                                    Ten Years of Preacher Life, 35.
                     
                             suppers of those early days at the children's
                            second table. But the relish oi! the viands was surpassed by the zest
                            with which we youngsters, in the seats allotted to us among our elders, in the parlor,
                            listened to the stories and adventures of these men, who in truth seemed to us prophets of
                            the Lord. They were ever kindly in their regard for children, and were accustomed to speak
                            some comfortable words to each child present. The evening's close was always
                            hallowed by a chapter read from the Bible, a hymn in which the voices of all present joined,
                            and a prayer earnestly commending every one present to the care of Him who careth for all.
                            What a strange fire glowed within the bosom, as I, a tow-headed urchin, stood with my face
                            to the wall and listened to the harmonious voices swelling the praises of God, and thought
                            of those glorious fathers, who, in all their wanderings and trials, felt that they were
                            hidden beneath the hollow of an Almighty hand. They were the Paladins of my
                            childhood's chivalry; knights, the weapons of whose warfare were not carnal, but
                            mighty through God, to the pulling down of strongholds.
                        This early veneration and affection went with us to the west, and as soon as we were able to
                            take possession of a house with a spare room, that room was styled the prophet's
                            chamber, and our abode again became the home of the preachers. Making allowance for the
                            differences between an older and a new country, they were men of the same school as those we
                            had before known; for, notwithstanding the play of the most decisive individuality, the
                            strongest family likeness marks all the Methodist preachers I have seen. I knew no greater
                            pleasure than to act the part of hostler on behalf of the horses of our welcome guests,
                            acquiring thereby a knowledge and skill in the use of horseflesh which stood me in good
                            stead years after.
                    
                
            IDEALS
                    OF
                    THE CIRCUIT RIDER
            
            The foundations of American methodism were laid by Francis Asbury on the ideals of John Wesley, who
                    commissioned the former for work. John Wesley was the first circuit rider. Suzanah Wesley, his
                    mother, a great woman, was the twenty-fourth child of her parents, and her son, John, was the
                    fifteenth in a family of nineteen. Four of her children became famous. John Wesley always claimed
                    that his mother was the founder of Methodism, and the history of his life furnishes evidence in
                    support of that statement.70 She was 
                  
                     70 Elbert Hubbard, Little Journeys to the Homes of Great
                                Reformers, John Wesley. This talented writer aspired to lead a school of thought
                            which gave too scant reverence to religion in any of its forms, but who is cited because his
                            biography of Wesley contains pivotal facts in condensed form which show Wesley to be one of
                            the great reformers of the world, and his biography will be conceded to be free from bias In
                            favor either of the Methodists or any other religious denomination.
               
                     in the great religious awakening of the eighteenth century in 
                        England
                     in a sense what Cornelia was in 
                        Rome
                    ; it was Max Muller who said that 
                        Rome
                     owed more to the mother of the Gracchi than to all of her grammarians.
            John and Charles Wesley were invited by Oglethorpe–all were 
                        Oxford
                     men–to go to 
                        Georgia
                    , of which the latter was colonial governor, Charles "the greatest producer of
                    hymns the world has ever seen" as private secretary, and John as missionary.
                    Oglethorpe's plan was an ideal commonwealth. Slavery, which John Wesley christened
                    "the sum of all villainies" and the shadow in the colony of the "state
                    religion of 
                        England
                     which was a galvanized and gilded thing possessing everything but the breath of
                    life," prevented John Wesley succeeding as he wished, and he returned to 
                        England
                     and was chosen college professor at 
                        Oxford
                     for his moral influence, where he became the centre and leader of the great evangelical
                    revival which began in 
                        Oxford
                     university. He induced Asbury to come as a missionary to America and ordained him
                    bishop. Asbury compared to Wesley is described as one who saved America as Wesley saved 
                        England
                    .71
            
            Methodism raised the standard of intellect in 
                        England
                     to a degree no man can compute, says Leckey, the free thinking historian.72 With the foundations laid by Asbury, American methodism became a vital and integral
                    factor of American democracy which came into full development at the time and locality of John
                    Shrader's labors.
            Asbury in labors, suffering, spiritual force, intensity and persistency of purpose and absolute
                    selfishness, rivaled, if he did not outrival, Wesley. He became the faithful replica of Wesley. For
                    nearly fifty years he was the out rider of an ever growing army of apostolic men who knew neither
                    self nor fear, who conquered a continent, and who covered it with a network of circuits and
                    conferences. Wesley himself never devised and carried into execution so many plans of benevolence in
                    connection with societies as did Asbury for the Methodist Episcopal church. Nor was this all. He was
                    the first man on the continent to introduce Sabbath schools73 in 
                  
                     71
                            Francis Asbury Centenary, Vol., 85.
                  
                     72 Elbert Hubbard, John Wesley, 37.
                  
                     73 Strickland, Life and Times of Francis Asbury,
                            217.
               
                    
                    
                  Hanover county, Virginia
                in 1786, five years in advance of all others. He did not wait for
                    the organization of educational, missionary, Bible, preacher, relief, tract and Sunday school
                    societies before entering upon that work connected with those benevolent departments of church
                    action, but combining all these departments in his own person, he originated and carried them into
                    successful operation, and from the fact that these benevolent agencies all stand to this day,
                    constantly increasing in magnitude and power, it is obvious that to this wonderful man belongs a
                    share of wisdom rarely found to exist in man, and such as fitted him in a most eminent degree for
                    the position he occupied as the head of the Methodist episcopal church in America.74
            
            Before his death, $2000 was given him to aid in his general work. This sum he left by will
                    to the infant publishing department of his church, which, by continuous growth, became and for many
                    years has been the greatest religious publishing house in America and the oldest publishing house in
                    the new world.
            Asbury, under a resolution suggested by him to the general conference in 
                        New York
                     in 1789, read an address of congratulation signed by Coke and himself, bishops, to 
                        Washington
                     upon his first accession to the presidency. The Presbyterians and others followed, but
                    Asbury was the leader of all in this step. 
                        Washington
                    's answer was addressed "To the bishops of the Methodist episcopal
                    church in the 
                        United States
                     of America", and concluded by imploring "a divine benediction on the
                    committee of bishops and your religious community".75 With 
                        Washington
                    , Asbury had many and friendly interviews, and was always on the side of the patriots in
                    the Revolution.78 Asbury had no home in America. In forty-five years he was
                    always on the road. He prayed in 10,000 households and 
                  
                     74 Strickland, Life and Times of Francis Asbury,
                            218.
                  
                     76 Strickland, Asbury, 232–234. These two
                            documents are of historical interest Seventy-five years later, in 1864, the general
                            conference of the Methodist Episcopal church, sitting in 
                                Philadelphia
                            , adjourned to permit its body of bishops to present an address to Abraham
                            Lincoln, pledging to him in the darkest period of the Civil war the aid and support of
                            northern methodlam, and ho responded that it was not the fault of other churches that
                            methodism sent more nurses to the hospital and more soldiers to the field than any other
                            denomination.
                  
                     76
                            Strickland, 230–7-8.
               
                     preached 17,000 sermons–labors incredible but for
                    evidence contained in his journal which records the times and places.77
            
            Asbury was once asked by an eminent divine belonging to another branch of the church, "How
                    is it that you take men from the tail of the plough, the blacksmith's shop, the
                    carpenter's bench, and without sending them to college or divinity schools, set them to
                    preach at once, and in a few years they became able ministers of the New Testament, equal, if not
                    superior, to our men trained in collegiate and theological halls?" The venerable bishop
                    answered, "We tell one another all we know, and then use it at once. A penny used is better
                    than an idle dollar. You study books, we study men, the Bible, the hymn-book and Wesley's
                    sermons, and are instant in season and out of season. I once picked up a fiddler, and he became a
                    saint and a great preacher."
            The almost military organization which Wesley impressed on methodism, gave it unequaled power in the
                    new country. The class-meeting and its leader, the steward, the exhorters and local preachers, the
                    circuit preachers and presiding elders, and over all, the superintendents or bishops, formed an army
                    in which the drill and discipline were thorough and complete, while the spirit animating the whole
                    was one of martial enthusiasm. Rank and file alike looked upon themselves as the soldiers of the
                    Lamb. They looked upon human life as a conflict in which they warred against principalities and
                    powers, and spiritual wickedness in high places. Their modes of thought and forms of speech were
                    full of militant images, while their hymns and songs throbbed with the spirit of battle and of
                    victory, and the banner of the cross was the watchword of old and young, men and women.78
            
            Milburn concludes a sketch of Asbury in these words: 
                        Such a man was Bishop Asbury, to my mind one of the most important, if not the most important
                            personage in the ecclesiastical history of this continent. "With all respect to
                            Jonathan Edwards, Dr. Dwight, Dr. Channing, and all the other eminent and pre-eminent men of 
                                New England
                            –I have read them, and knew some of them–I think that
                            Francis Asbury, that first superintendent and bishop of our Methodist church, was the most
                            renowned and redoubtable soldier of the cross that 
                        
                           77 Tipple, Francis Asbury, the Prophet of the
                                        Long Road, 158–182; Curnock'i edition of Wesley's Journal.
                        
                        
                           78 Milburn, Lance, Cross and Canoe,
                                351.
                     
                             ever advanced the standard of the Lord upon this
                            continent. Yet you will not find his name in a single history of the 
                                United States
                             that I know of; and it is a burning shame that it is so. He traveled for fifty
                            years, on horseback, from 
                                Maine
                             to 
                                Georgia
                            , and from 
                                Massachusetts
                             to the far west, as population extended; journeying in that time, as was
                            computed, about three hundred thousand miles. He had the care of all the churches; was
                            preaching instant in season and out of season; was laboring indefatigably with the young men
                            to inspire and stimulate them; winning back the lost and bringing amorphous elements into
                            harmony, in a church, which, when he began with it, in 1771, numbered probably not fifty
                            members; and which, when he was an old man–he died in 1816–numbered,
                            black and white, from 
                                Maine
                             to 
                                California
                            , and from far northwestern 
                                Oregon
                             to sunny southern 
                                Florida
                            , nearly a million of members. So vast a church did Francis Asbury build, almost
                            solely by his own profound wisdom, untiring effort, and ceaseless devotion; and he did as
                            much for building schoolhouses and colleges, erecting churches, establishing sound views of
                            morality, and lofty purity in the forms of life; for gathering and establishing in doctrine
                            and discipline this immense body of Christians, now (1850) the most numerous in the country,
                            having more by one-third of stated ministers, and more colleges, than any other two
                            denominations in the land. That one who has done this should not have had his name even so
                            much as named in a single school history in the 
                                United States
                            , I say is a shame. This man was surrounded by men much akin to him; for he
                            seemed to infuse his spirit into all with whom he came in contact.79
                  
                    
                
            No man in the ecclesiastical history of the new world had labored and suffered as he had, and none
                    had achieved greater results. The growing host of itinerant preachers beheld him with admiration and
                    wonder as he hastily passed in his long routes–meeting them ever and anon for a few days
                    and then disappearing on the frontier or in the distant north and south –night and day,
                    sounding the trumpet of the gospel and hastening forward as if the final judgment were about to
                    break upon the world.80 One of that host of itinerant preachers was John
                    Shrader, who in his twenty-second year was ordained deacon by Bishop Asbury at 
                  Lebanon, Tennessee
               ,
                    at the 
                        Tennessee
                     conference in 1814, two years before the death of the bishop.
            Moses Ashworth attended the western conference in 1805, 1806, 1807, and 1808, over all of which
                    Bishop Asbury presided, and Ashworth was ordained by him. Cartwright'a Autobiography is full of facts and incidents describing his 
                  
                     79 W. H. Milburn, Pioneers, Preachers and People,
                            369.
                  
                     80 Stephen, Life of Nathaniel Bangs, quoted in
                            Francis Asbury's Centenary, Vol. 87.
               
                     meeting with Asbury, his ordination, his appointments as
                    presiding elder by the bishop over his earnest protest, the fatherly care and advice received from
                    the bishop, and a full account of his death is given.81 Much of the resemblance
                    in spirit and work of these two wonderful men of different type may, no doubt, be traced to the
                    impress of one upon the other. Until his health gave way, under the exposure in all kinds of weather
                    in continuous travel on horse-back, often sleeping in the unsheltered wilderness, which compelled
                    him in 1821 to locate, and still later as a local preacher during a long life, John Shrader and his
                    associates faithfully carried out the ideals of Wesley and Asbury, and followed their example in the
                    introduction and spread of the gospel in the west.
            HARRISON
                    AND
                    THE CIRCUIT RIDERS
            
            The comparison already referred to between the life and work of John Shrader in the second decade of
                    the nineteenth century as a circuit rider, like Cartwright, Ashworth and others, under the
                    commission and inspiration of Francis Asbury, the greatest of all the circuit riders, with that of
                    the early Jesuit missionaries of the Catholic church, has its confirmation in contemporaneous
                    authority. The method of Catholic treatment of converts was, however, wholly different from that of
                        methodism.82 The former was European in its origin and ideals. The character
                    of the people of the early French settlements of the old northwest, 
                        Kaskaskia
                    , Cahokia and 
                        Vincennes
                     has been so frequently described as to leave no doubt as to the policy of the Catholic
                    church in its dealings with the early French traders, Indians and half-breeds at the trading posts
                    established by the French.
            Faux on his trip west from 
                        Philadelphia
                     in the fall of 1819, to visit his friend, John Ingle of Saundersville in the English
                    settlement, stopped long enough in 
                        Vincennes
                     to take an inventory of the people and their appearance, and thus describes them, but
                    while honest, his want of judicial temperament, and his bias in favor of friendly treatment and
                    against an unfriendly reception, so colors his story, as a rule unfriendly 
                  
                     81 Strickland, Cartwright, 68, 97, 98, 111, 126,
                            127, 139, 140, 152.
                  
                     82 Holliday, Indiana Methodism, 49.
               
                     to western life, that much allowance must be made for it:
                        
                        The town of 
                                Vincennes
                             is more than 200 years old; older than 
                                Philadelphia
                            ; but being of French origin, and in the neighborhood of the Indians, ever
                            hostile to the inhabitants and settlers round it, has grown but slowly, and is an antique
                            lump of deformity. Although long the capital and mother town of the state, it looks like an
                            old, worn out, dirty village of wooden frame houses, which a fire might improve, for
                            improvement generally has to travel through flames. Here is no church, save the Catholic
                            church, the inhabitants being principally French Canadians, and the rest the refuse of the
                            east, whose crimes have driven them hither, or dissipated young men unable to live at home.
                            Hence Sunday is only a day of frolic and recreation, which commences on the Saturday
                            evening, when every preparation is devoutly made for the Sabbath, and off they start in
                            large parties on foot and on horseback, all riflemen and cunning hunters, into the deep
                            recesses of the forest, camping out all night in readiness for Sabbath sacrifices, the
                            bucks, the bears, the squirrels, and the turkeys, ready to be offered tip by peep of day.
                            This holy day is consequently ushered in by guns, which continue to roar in and around the
                            town all day until sunset. The stranger might think it was closely besieged, or that an
                            enemy was approaching.
                        I rambled round the town to the court-house, or shire-hall, really externally an elegant
                            building, but decaying before finished, as though the state were unable to finish what it
                            had so well begun before counting the cost.
                        I saw a large party of Miami Indian hunters, accompanied by their ugly squaws, all on
                            horseback, and all astride, with their tomahawks and frightful knives girdled round them,
                            dressed in blankets and turbans, and painted red, green, black, and white; every feature
                            having a different shade of colour, and all, save the squaws, apparently half drunk, having
                            their bottle of fire-water, or whiskey, with them, which, after drinking from it themselves,
                            they stopped and handed to me and my friend Baker. We took it and applied it to our lips, it
                            being considered the perfection of rudeness and barbarism, and little short of enmity, to
                            refuse anything so kindly offered. This tribe had approached the town for the purpose of
                            selling their venison. Each horse carried two or three quarters, fat and fine, ready
                            skinned, and hanging down its sides. The price was only a quarter dollar for 30 lbs., not an
                            English half-penny per pound.
                        Although 
                                Vincennes
                             is an old mother town, abounding rich land, it is uncultivated, and there is
                            occasionally a scarcity of necessaries, particularly of milk and butter, which, with the
                            worst tea, are dealt out very sparingly; no lump sugar, no brandy, no segars, no spitoons
                            are seen at this hotel.83
                  
                    
                
            Wilson's History of 
                            Dubois County
                        
               , a part of 
                        Knox county
                     before 1814, including biographies of Capt. Toussaint Dubois 
                  
                     83 Thwaites, Early Western Travels, XI, 207.
               
                     and the very Rev. Joseph Kundeck V.G., contains an interesting
                    and impartial description of 
                        Knox county
                     life at the time of which I am speaking. Perhaps the most comprehensive view of both
                    sides of early French dominion and the nature of its mixed society under Catholic control is found
                    in Mil-burn's delightful chapter which he calls a French idyll.84
            
            When W. H. Harrison was appointed governor of Indiana territory upon its organization in 1800, he
                    removed to 
                        Vincennes
                     capital, where he lived until after the admission of the state of Indiana to the union
                    in 1816. Of this city, Esarey says, referring to Harrison's removal there as his residence
                    "Besides, there was scarcely a western post at that time with a reputation as objectionable
                    as that of 
                        Vincennes
                    .85
            
            Here came Cartwright in 1808 as a great controversial debater and planted the standards of methodism
                    in an organized circuit.86 In 1812 for a year 
                        Vincennes
                     was his residence as presiding elder. Moses Ashworth in 1807 launched methodism on the
                    Silver Creek circuit on its separate career, in Indiana territory.87
            
            In 1815 John Shrader was sent by the 
                        Tennessee
                     conference on the Green River circuit to 
                        Vincennes
                    , and the vigorous domination of methodism in the wilderness settlements is mentioned by
                    Elijah Goodwin, a pioneer preacher of much force, whose relation to methodism as a preacher in a
                    rival denomination became somewhat strained in "the struggle between the sects"
                    but who as a youth in 
                        Daviess county
                     was under Methodist influence, and whose testimony is an unconscious tribute to the
                    wonderful success of Shrader's work on the circuit, which met him wherever he went, and
                    this was on his first appearance in Indiana in 1815 and 1816.88 All of these
                    circuit riders were men of prominence in the then thinly settled territory before the admission of
                    the state, and there can be little doubt that Harrison knew them all when engaged in their work in
                    southern Indiana.
            The testimony of Harrison himself, based in part, I believe, 
                  
                     84 W. H. Milburn, The Lance, Cross and Canoe. See
                            Esarey, Hist, of Indiana, I, pp. 1 to 12 and 154.
                  
                     85 Esarey, Hist, of Indiana, I, p. 176.
                  
                     86 Cartwright's Autobiography, 55.
                  
                     87 Sweet's Circuit Rider, 8.
                  
                     88 James M. Mathes, Life of Elijah Goodwin,
                        23.
               
                     upon his experience with and knowledge of Ashworth, Cartwright
                    and Shrader, as well as others, must always stand as the judgment of a competent and impartial
                    historian. The "
                        Vincennes
                    " circuit in 1809 was filled by Rev. William Winans.
            William Henry Harrison, governor of Indiana territory, had established his headquarters there; and
                    William Winans was the first protestant preacher to visit the place. One of his first services was a
                    night appointment for preaching in the fort. The government officers, a few English and French
                    settlers, and two or three Indians, make up the audience. A few tallow candles furnish all their
                    light for the occasion. One of these is kindly held by Governor Harrison for the young preacher,
                    while he reads his text and hymn. And in that dingy room young Winans delivers his gospel message in
                    such a manner as commends both the preacher and his message to the hearts of his hearers. Winans was
                    a young man of fine personal appearance; not handsome, but commanding in his appearance; a little
                    above the medium height, with an open countenance, a clear, strong voice, an easy, rather negligent
                    manner, that showed perfect self-possession and self-reliance, qualities of great value to the
                    frontier missionary, who has no treasury to depend on, and whose audiences are, for the most part,
                    composed of strangers. Winans did not disappoint the expectations of his friends. He rose to
                    eminence, and was for many years a recognized leader of the forces of methodism in the state of 
                        Mississippi
                    , into the bounds of which conference he fell by the division of territory.89
            
            The following testimonial of the character of the circuit rider is given in a letter written by
                    William Henry Harrison before he became president:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Who and what are they? I answer, entirely composed of ministers who are technically
                                    denominated "circuit-riders," a body of men who, for zeal and
                                    fidelity in the discharge of the duties they undertake, are not exceeded by any
                                    others in the world. I have been a witness of their conduct in the western country
                                    for nearly forty years. They are men whom no labor tires, no scenes disgust, no
                                    danger frightens, in the discharge of their duty. To gain recruits for their
                                    Master's service, 
                              
                                 89 Sweet, Circuit Rider, 9; Esarey,
                                                History of Indiana, 1, 318; Holliday, Methodism, 28. For a fuller account of Dr. Winan's
                                            distinguished career see W. C. Smith, Indiana
                                            Miscellanies, 52.
                           
                                     they sedulously seek out the victims of vice in
                                    the abode of misery and wretchedness. The vow of poverty is not taken by these men,
                                    but their conduct is precisely the same as it would have been had they taken one.
                                    Their stipulated pay is barely sufficient to enable them to perform the services
                                    assigned to them. With much the larger portion, the horse which carries them is the
                                    only animated thing which they can call their own, and the contents of their valise,
                                    or saddle-bags, the sum total of their earthly possessions.
                        If within the period I have mentioned, a traveler on the western frontier had met a
                                    stranger in some obscure way, or assiduously urging his course through the
                                    intricacies of a tangled forest, his appearance staid and sober, and his countenance
                                    indicating that he was in search of some object in which his feelings were deeply
                                    interested, his apparel plain but entirely neat, and his baggage adjusted with
                                    peculiar compactness, he might be almost certain that the stranger was a Methodist
                                    preacher, hurrying on to perform his daily task of preaching to separate and distant
                                    congregations; and should the same traveler, upon approaching some solitary,
                                    unfinished, and scarcely habitable cabin, hear the praises of the Creator chanted
                                    with peculiar melody, or the doctrines of the Savior urged upon the attention of
                                    some six or eight individuals with the same energy and zeal that he had seen
                                    displayed in addresses to a crowded audience of a populous city, he might be
                                    certain, without inquiry, that it was the voice of the Methodist minister.91
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            While Harrison was an aristocrat and an earnest partisan in favor of slavery, (?) when he formed his
                    estimate of the circuit rider of the Methodist church, the divergence of interest and ideals of the
                    northwest and the southwest, particularly the result of slavery agitation, had not yet made great
                    progress. There vas yet much in common between these sections, which contributed to the formation of
                    American democracy.92
            
            
               
                  91 Milburn, The Lance, Cross and Canoe, 390. Same
                        author, The Rifle, Axe and Saddle-bags, 76.
               
                  92 Turner, "Dominant Forces in Western Life." Atlantic Monthly, 79, 438, "Significance of the Frontier,"
                            Am. Hist. Assn. Rep. 1893, p. 220. Roosevelt, Winning of the
                            West, Ch. Men of the Western Waters. Roosevelt, Life of 
                                Benton
                            
                  , Chs. 3, 8, 9, 13 and 14. The current of emigration into Indiana at this
                        period was chiefly from the south described by Prof. Thomas F. Moran, Bulletin 11, Proc. of Indiana State Hist. Conference, 1919, p. 13.
            
            
            STRUGGLE
                    OF
                    THE SECTS
                    IN INDIANA
            
            Shrader and Ashworth came from 
                        Tennessee
                    –Cartwright from 
                        Kentucky
                    . The first two were not controversialists and particularly Shrader was the opposite of
                    Cartwright, who was a controversialist of first rank for the time. Shrader was educated, and the
                    Wheelers and Parrett were educated in 
                        England
                    .
            The Baptists were first to cross the mountains with the earliest wave of pioneer life and, better
                    than all others till the Methodists came, represented the body of the people and knew how to reach
                    them, and they have held their precedence in 
                        Kentucky
                     till this day.93 The stern character of the Scotch with a
                    foundation of Calvinistic theology was not softened in that movement of the Scotch Irish into 
                        Kentucky
                    , the third wave of frontier emigration, the overflow from which a generation later
                    formed the body of the settlers of the southern tier of counties in Indiana. Roosevelt says that
                    their theology lacked the warmth of that of the Baptists and the Methodists.94
            
            The first aid to Baptists and Presbyterians in early 
                        Evansville
                     came from the local organizations in 
                  Henderson, Kentucky
               , which
                    town was a generation older than 
                        Evansville
                    .95 But this was an organization merely and without a regular
                    preacher.
            The ideals of Methodists were 
                        Puritan
                     English from Wesley through Asbury, presented by a pioneer ministry. Cart-wright,
                    Ashworth and Shrader were all ordained by Asbury and sent by him into the territory north of the
                        Ohio river; the Presbyterian minister who represented that denomination
                    came to the west as a missionary with the tenets and conventions of the theological schools.96
            
            In the great revival of 1800 in 
                        Kentucky
                     the Presbyterians, 
                  
                     93 Cotherill, History of Pioneer Kentucky, 243.
                            Wiley, letters, Western Christian Advocate, Aug. 29, 1845.
                  
                     94 Roosevelt, Winning of the West, Pt. 1, Ch. 5, p.
                            170.
                  
                     95 Riley, History of Walnut Street Church, 7.
                  
                     96 The first Presbyterian minister resident in 
                                Evansville
                             was Rev. Calvin Butler (father of the late John M. Butler, one of the leaders
                            of the Indiana Bar). He came in 1830 and remained four years, after which there remained
                            soma years with no pastor to the church, which was built under 
                                Butler
                            's administration, during which interval services were held by Parrett
                            and Wheeler, In which all denominations Joined. Riley's History of
                                Walnut Street Church, 18.
               
                     Baptists and Methodists joined forces, but they were before and
                    after that time at loggerheads, and the controversies among the sects were probably fostered by the
                    jealousy and fears of the Calvinistic elements in the east that individualism unrestrained in the
                    west would endanger the liberties and religion of the former. There seemed to be a real apprehension
                    on the part of the leaders in eastern religious and intellectual life that the west was drifting
                    into conditions which threatened the existence of organized society as it existed in the east.97
            
            
               
                        New England
                     bitterly opposed the granting of homesteads to the early settlers upon the public
                    domain in the west. John Adams in a speech in congress said: 
                        The slaveholders of the south have bought the co-operation of the western country by the
                            bribe of western lands, abandoning to the new western states their own proportion of the
                            public property, and aiding them in the design of grasping all the lands in their own
                        hands.
                    
                
            Turner says that the east has always feared the result of an unregulated advance of the frontier, and
                    has tried to check it and guide it. The most effective efforts of the east to regulate the frontier
                    came through its educational and religious activities, exercised by interstate migration and
                    missionary activities. The dread of western emancipation from 
                        New England
                     political and economic control was paralleled by her fears lest the west cut loose from
                    her religion. Various sects and denominations strove for the mastery of the west. Home missions and
                    western colleges were established, some of the sections sent missionaries, and the real struggle was
                    between the sects. The contest for power and the expansive tendency, furnished to the various sects
                    by the existence of the moving frontier, must have had important results on the character of the
                    religious organizations in the 
                        United States
                    . The multiplication of rival churches in the little frontier towns had deep and lasting
                    social effects–the religious aspect of the frontier makes a chapter in our history which
                    needs study.98
            
            
               
                  97 Lyman Beecher issued an address expressing this fear, which is quoted
                        in Turner's The Frontier in American History, 35. Later his son,
                        Henry Ward Beecher, came to 
                            Indianapolis
                         and remained as pastor for some time.
               
                  98 P. J. Turner, The Frontier in American History, 36.
                            The Christian Traveler, by Isaac Reed, and Memoir of
                            Sylvester Scovel, by Wood, contain reliable record of Presbyterian missionary work in
                        Indiana in the early part of the last century.
            
            
            The facts furnished by Turner which call attention to the struggle between the sects for the control
                    of the west, throw light upon some dramatic events in the history of Indiana, especially in its
                    educational history. Interpreting these facts from the viewpoint mentioned, the verification of Dr.
                    Turner's statement is found. In the establishment of a state university in embryo at 
                        Bloomington
                    , and in the development of education by the state for a period of more than fifty
                    years, the work was marked by a bitter struggle with the Presbyterian element, on the one side,
                    thoroughly organized, probably in the east, and the Baptists, Methodists, Quaker and other
                    denominations on the other side.
            Dr. Holliday, who had personal knowledge of the facts relating to the history of education in pioneer
                    Indiana, charges with much feeling that the Presbyterian church assumed practically exclusive
                    control of the state university, the selection of its teachers, and the expenditure of its funds,
                    directly in aid of that religious sect and to the injury and exclusion of members of other sects.99
            
            Professor Sweet gives the facts on this subject in an impartial manner. The Indiana Methodist
                    episcopal conference in 1834 presented a memorial, including a petition to the state legislature of
                    Indiana, demanding an equitable share of the privileges in the state university for the Methodist
                    church with others. In the memorial it is stated:100
                    
                        We would impress it upon your honorable body that literature belongs to no one denomination
                            of persons, and that no one exclusively, should be allowed to possess the keys that unlock
                            her treasures. We apprehend that the funds of our State College were designed by their
                            munificent donors to patronize science and advocate the cause of general literature and not
                            of religious sects, and should it be divested from its original design (directly or
                            indirectly) the donors are despoiled of a rich inheritance, and the legacy itself betrayed
                            to a very questionable purpose∗ ∗ ∗. We
                            look in its charter (State College) and read that the places of president, professors and
                            tutors are open, soliciting capacity to occupy them without regard to religious professions
                            or doctrines. We then turn our eyes on the faculty from the organization of the Institution
                            up to this hour and we see one common hue, one common religion characterize every member, as
                            if capacity and fitness were combined to one church and one set of religious opinion. The
                            memorial did 
                        
                           99
                                    Indiana Methodism, 317.
                        
                           100 Sweet, Circuit Rider Days in Indiana,
                                    58.
                     
                             not ask that the state college be put either in whole
                            or in part under the control of the Methodist church but they simply asked that the trustees
                            of the college be elected for a definite term of years and that vacancies, as they occurred,
                            should be filled by the legislature and not by the remaining members of the board of
                            trustees, as had been the custom heretofore.
                    
                
            This memorial was signed by the members of the conference, and six other similar memorials were
                    presented to the state legislature numerously signed, all of which were referred to the committee on
                    education, but for some reason the committee never took any action in reference to them.
            That there were deep feeling, controversy and friction among the people in Indiana resulting from
                    this struggle among the sects, there can be no doubt. It began with the beginning of the state
                    university, and was in a large degree the cause of the establishment of a number of denominational
                    colleges, some of them in protest against what was called the denominational control of the state
                    university; but it required two generations of educated men and women from all the colleges in
                    Indiana to silence that controversy, and it is only in recent years that the large appropriations
                    for educational purposes by the legislature to the state university have not met with more or less
                    opposition from the source mentioned; the deep and permanent influence of that struggle upon the
                    social and religious life and character of the people of Indiana can never be measured, and can only
                    be understood by the older generation; there is little mention of it in the writings of the time.101
            
            Whatever may be said of this controversy which began with the beginning of public education in the
                    state, much allowance must be made for the spirit of the age, and it cannot be denied that among the
                    backwoodsmen who first settled Indiana there was much illiteracy, and that both secular and 
                  
                     101 It is said by persons well Informed on the subject that during the
                            term when Conrad Baker was governor, and Will Cumback, lieutenant governor of Indiana, the
                            fierce controversy which arose between those two gentlemen in connection with the proposal
                            to elect Baker U. S. senator and permit Cumbaclc to become governor, was one in which two
                            great religious denominations became involved; and that these gentlemen, who were both men
                            of high ability and character, each a leader in one of the churches referred to, were killed
                            politically in the duel, although it was conceded by all that the Influence in the
                            legislature of the members of the two churches combined could easily have controlled
                        it.
               
                     religious education was greatly to be desired. However such
                    results may have been obtained, and making due allowance for the weakness of human nature under the
                    circumstances, it must be admitted that the stand taken by the Presbyterians, both in the matters of
                    secular education and in the demand for an educated ministry, have in a substantial degree aided in
                    the elevation of those standards to that extent they are entitled to credit.
            AMERICAN METHODISM
                    AND AMERICAN DEMOCRACY
            
            When I was drafted by the mayor of 
                        Evansville
                    , in 1916, into the organization and work of the historical commission of the centennial
                    of 
                        Evansville
                    , I began immediately to extend my reading on frontier history. In 1918 appeared a History of the American People, in which I was astonished to find the statement
                    that "Dr. Frederick J. Turner is the first true interpreter of the frontier in our
                    history"; and as a summary of the chapter on the "Northwest a National
                    Domain", Professor West defines "the key to the meaning of the west in American
                    history" in terms first announced by Turner in 1893.101a In his
                    reference to Turner, West also particularly recommends every student to read an article by Woodrow
                    Wilson, and one by Samuel Crothers.102 The article of Wilson included the
                    statement in substance that our national history has for the most part been written by 
                        New England
                     men from a sectional viewpoint, which over-estimated 
                        Puritan
                     influence in the development of national character. The article of Crothers in a vein
                    of keen humor if not sarcasm charges in substance that the narrow sectional view of 
                        New England
                     life has been mistaken as the basis of the spirit of the life of the whole nation.103
            
            Turner's writings, with the exception of the volume Rise of the New West,
                    have been delivered as addresses and published in magazines, but in 1920 most of them were published
                    in book form under the title The Frontier in American History.
            
            
               
                  101a William Mason West, History of the American People,
                        270.
               
                  102
                        Id. 270
               
                  103 For a fuller statement on this point, see Indiana
                            Magazine of History, 15, p. 144; see also Woodrow Wilson, The Course of
                            American History (mera literature), 218; Samuel McChord Crothers, The
                            Pardoner's Wallet. The land of the large and charitable air, 148.
            
            
            Without attempting to quote the summary of Professor West, or to summarize in limited space so great
                    a work, which throughout all of the addresses centres to the single theme, I may say that Dr.
                    Turner's views expressed in various forms are to the effect that the dominant democracy
                    recognized as the true type of our national democracy, was developed into full life and power about
                    the period which he fixes as the rise of the new west (1819–1829), that Thomas Jefferson
                    was the John the Baptist, not the Moses of democracy;104 that notwithstanding
                    the shudder with which 
                        New England
                     Federalism looked at the democratic ideas of those who refused to recognize the
                    established order, there came into the union a sisterhood of frontier states, 
                        Ohio
                    , Indiana, 
                        Illinois
                     and 
                        Missouri
                    , with provisions for the franchise which brought in a full democracy;105 and that the spirit of that democracy typified by Abraham Lincoln embodied as its ideal,
                    emphasis upon the worth and possibilities of the common man, of its belief in the right of every man
                    to rise to the full measure of his own nature, under conditions of social mobility.
                    "Western democracy was no theorist's dream. It came stark and strong from the
                    American forest."106 The westerner has been the type and master of our
                    national life.107 In his editor's introduction to the Rise
                        of the New West Albert Bushnell Hart emphasizes the fact that Turner is a descendant of New
                    Yorkers of 
                        New England
                     stock, "but" admits that "he is native to the
                    west".
            He does not even call attention to the originality or great historical value of Dr. Turner's
                    interpretation of frontier life and dismisses the subject generally with three sentences, including
                    a reference to the transformation of the west from a rude and boisterous frontier to a group of
                    states, similar in part to the process through which 
                        Massachusetts
                     and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and 
                        Virginia
                     passed as colonies.108
            
            The authorities cited referring to Turner's writings and especially the writings themselves
                    make clear that the dominant democracy of America today came from the beginnings of frontier life in
                    the Ohio valley in the society of the children 
                  
                     104
                            Frontier in American History, 251.
                  
                     105 Turner, Rise of the New West, 251–2.
                  
                     106
                            Id. 113.
                  
                     107 Woodrow Wilson, The Course of American History
                            (mere literature), 218.
                  
                     108 Editor's Introduction, Rise of the New
                            West, p. XIV.
               
                     of the wilderness tutored in the schooling of the wilderness,
                    freed from poisonous European germs existing in the Atlantic coast states from which the
                    backwoodsmen of the Alleghenies and the men of the western waters and their ancestors had fled or
                    been driven into the wilderness. Their Hoosier descendants have come into their own, but they also
                    are very slow to recognize the fact. Parkman is recognized by all succeeding historians as master in
                    his matchless narration of the story of frontier life during the period covered by his writings.
                    "Perhaps because he was a New Englander he missed a great opportunity and neglected to
                    portray the formation and advance of the backwood society."109 Turner
                    has done this, and has made it clear that upon free soil, under free institutions, about the time
                    and place of Abraham Lincoln, in the midst of the "plain people" in southern
                    Indiana, American democracy produced its first true type.
            Methodism came from the southwest to the northwest. A proper understanding of the development of
                    both, in the first three decades of the last century, will show that the itinerant system of
                    methodism was the handmaid of democracy in the Ohio valley. The Methodist
                    preacher made no compromises on questions of right and wrong, and when the issue of toleration of
                    human slavery in the ownership of slaves by a Methodist bishop's wife was first presented,
                    the church was divided by secession of the southern churches in 1844. The great schism in methodism
                    resulting in the establishment of the Methodist episcopal church south was caused by the controversy
                    over slavery and was one of the most potent exhibitions of public opinion in the nation following
                    the rapid growth of free American democracy. Political compromises delayed the Civil war seventeen
                    years later, but it resulted from the same cause.
            Allen Wiley's History of the Introduction of Methodism in Southeastern
                    Indiana traces for a short period a number of the circuit riders in southwestern Indiana while
                    both sections were in one conference, but gives meager details of little aid in any inquiry like the
                    present one. But as a history of methodism beginning in territorial days, as well as the record of
                    pioneer life and society, it will rank as one of the most 
                  
                     109 Turner, Frontier in American, History,
                        163.
               
                     valuable extant.110 These were the times of
                    Christian commonwealth builders who came, as Harrison describes them, with the first pioneers in the
                    wilderness. Such men were Francis Asbury, Moses Ashworth, Peter Cartwright, John Shrader, and that
                    host of itinerants, worthy to be described and carefully studied by the future historian. No history
                    of methodism, no history of American democracy, is complete without them.
            THE CIRCUIT RIDER
                    AS PREACHER, STATESMAN
                    AND EDUCATOR
            
            One of the primary duties of an itinerant was to seek out the settlers and to conduct service in
                    private houses or public places, and, whenever local talent in the person of local preachers was
                    available, enlist it in religious work. It was an important step of this character in which John
                    Shrader had gathered together three educated and able Wesleyan ministers, who had just come into the
                    English settlement in southwestern Indiana, and announced regular preaching every other Sabbath in
                    the hamlet of 
                        Evansville
                    , just one hundred years ago, recorded in local history as an event of unusual
                    importance which we celebrate today.
            Milburn thus describes his first sermon in 
                        Illinois
                    :111
                    
                        As we proceeded, he told me I should have to preach that afternoon at four o'clock,
                            and he turned a deaf ear to all my entreaties to be let off. Up to this time I had never
                            taken a text, for all my exercises had been in the shape of exhortations, delivered after
                            some more experienced person had expounded. My first sermon must be preached somewhere, and
                            why not then and there? So it was delivered to half a dozen men in their shirt-sleeves, with
                            the sweat of the plough on their brows, their teams left standing in the fields the while,
                            and to as many women in sun-bonnets, whose knitting and pipes were laid aside when the hymn
                            was given out. The rustle of the green leaves stirred by the pleasant wind, the song of the
                            birds, and the golden sunshine as it lay upon the puncheon floor on that cheerful summer
                            afternoon, are remembered yet, and also that my first sermon was but fifteen minutes long.
                        The next day we reached a village consisting of a dozen or twenty houses. In the evening we
                            attended an examination of the school; at 
                        
                           110 Thirty-seven articles in the Western
                                        Christian Advocate In 1845–6 by Allen Wiley. No. 2 of this
                                    series is an ably written description of the character, life and habits of the men
                                    and women of the early time in Southern Indiana. With it should be read Dr. Logan
                                    Esarey's article on the "Hoosier Aristocracy," Indiana Magazine of History, Sept., 1918.
                        
                           111 W. H. Milburn, Ten Years of
                                        Preacher's Life, 60 and 90.
                     
                             the close of the exercises, one of my new friends
                            mounted an empty barrel which stood in the corner of the room, and had been used as a seat,
                            and called out in the old 
                                Norman
                             form, "Oyez! Oyez! Take notive Brother William Milburn will preach in
                            the meeting-house to-morrow night at early candle-lighting!" No sooner was the last
                            word out of his mouth than the barrel-head gave way and the reverend clerk, falling to the
                            earth, went after the fashion of Eegulus, rolling about among the legs of the audience, his
                            desperate exertions to escape only making his plight the sadder and increasing the
                            confusion.
                        In busy seasons of the year, when the people were engaged in ploughing, planting, harvesting,
                            or gathering corn fodder, a week-day congregation would sometimes consist of three or four
                            aged sisters.
                    
                
            The preacher was frequently a fine singer, and his equipment as chorister was essential to successful
                    church meetings. He usually armed himself with three tunes, a long, short and common meter; but this
                    did not always prevent someone starting a long meter tune to shorter meter words. Milburn describes
                    the work of pastor in the sparsely settled wilderness, which shows the adaptation of the itinerant
                    system to the needs of all of the settlers:112
                    
                        It required four weeks to make the round, a ride of nearly three hundred miles, and demanding
                            on an average a sermon a day. After the public duties of the ministry are performed, it is
                            expected that the preacher shall meet the members of the society in private, and converse
                            with each one on his spiritual concerns. In his twelve or thirteen rounds during the year,
                            if he be a man of active and enterprising habits, he will almost inevitably make the
                            acquaintance of every man, woman and child in the county, and break bread at the tables of
                            the great majority of the hospitable householders.
                    
                
            The circuit rider was in many localities almost the only means of communication of the backwoodsmen
                    with the outer world. He was more intelligent than the great majority of the settlers.113 He was interested in their general welfare. He often took the place of the presiding
                    elder, and was often the only emissary of the gospel or professional man who came in the
                    settlements, more frequently called "clearings", for long periods. He was active
                    in matters of right and wrong, public and private, which became important in secular life. His field
                    and his discretion were almost without limit in the exercise 
                  
                     112 W. H. Milburn, Ten Years of Preacher's
                            Life, 81.
                  
                     113 See testimony of a pioneer in 
                                Warrick County
                            , 358.
               
                     of authority given him by the church, and in public opinion he
                    often sounded the key note in matters of general public concern. To this day, when some question of
                    great public interest calls for information it is a common occurrence for some Methodist bishop to
                    be interviewed by the Associate press reporter in any part of the country where he may happen to be
                    found, and such avenues to public opinion have weight, as the intelligent reader has learned to have
                    faith in the knowledge and reliability of this source of information.114 In a
                    more simple way, in keeping with the spirit of a primitive age, the itinerant was the outrider on
                    matters of public interest from the world without to the farthest borders of the wilderness.
            The circuit rider was an educator as well as a religious instructor. There were with many pioneers no
                    books or papers, no public lectures or educating platform addresses. The stump speech of politicians
                    and a jury argument in court always attracted a good crowd, but the sermon and private influence of
                    a prominent minister often outranked them all, and the school teacher himself. I have heard my
                    father, who always spoke with reverence of the impress on his early life by the circuit rider, say
                    that he inspired in him his highest ideals, and he recognized the influence of the early preacher in
                    his home above that of the school teacher in inspiring his youth. The preacher rode horseback,
                    generally reaching the cabin before dinner, where he was expected, upon each trip around the
                    circuit. On his arrival the horses, if in the field, were unhitched where they stood, and the boys
                    sent post haste in all directions to call the scattered settlers to a preaching service usually held
                    at the cabin about four o'clock.
            As the historian of the events celebrated on this occasion, I declare the obligation not only of
                    individuals but of all the people of the state of Indiana to these early preachers who sacrificed
                    their health, their chances of worldly promotion, and sometimes their lives in the effort to carry
                    the searchlight of Christian education and civilization into this wilderness, one hundred years ago.
            
               
                  114 During the world's war. Bishop William F, Anderson ranked
                        high among the statesmen of America in his knowledge of conditions actually existing and in his
                        judgment upon the problems relating to great interests involved in negotiations following the
                        war.
            
            
            I have heard my father say that the first English grammar he ever saw was given to him in his youth
                    by a Methodist preacher, an event which seemed at that time to be one of supreme importance. It was
                    to him a great book, for it was the science of correct speech among illiterate backwoodsmen.
            Macaulay says that the Greeks had but few books, but they were great books, and that the best mental
                    discipline does not come from turning over great libraries, but from reading and re-reading a few
                    great books and mastering them. A remarkable illustration of this truth is found in the life of
                    Abraham Lincoln. John Nicolay, in his single volume edition of the life of Lincoln recently issued,
                    mentions five books which Lincoln is known to have read while he lived in Indiana from the age of
                    seven to the age of twenty-one, although there is reliable testimony to the point that he read many
                    books, the names of which are not preserved. The fact is, proper investigation at the proper time of
                    facts relating to Lincoln in Indiana was not made, and the result is this important period of his
                    development is almost a blank in his biographies or treated as such by his biographers.
            After mentioning these five books, Nicolay says of Lincoln "When he had exhausted other
                    books, he even resolutely attacked the Revised Statutes of Indiana."115
            
            Another biographer of Lincoln, commenting upon the statement of historians, based upon the statements
                    of Lincoln's neighbors that Lincoln read and re-read those statutes with the deepest
                    interest and, even after he left Indiana at the age of twenty-one, while in 
                        Illinois
                    , was so familiar with the contents of that volume that he could refer to them page by
                    page at much length, ridicules these statements, and as conclusive evidence of the fact that they
                    are untrue, declares that they are the uninteresting record of statutes.116
            
            But these men know not of what they speak. I have had in my law library for fifty years an old copy
                    of the Revised Statutes of Indiana of 1824, with the names of two generations of
                    lawyers written upon it, a book from the Corydon press, a duplicate in every respect of the statutes
                    which Lincoln borrowed from Turnham. The first thing in these statutes is 
                  
                     115 Nicolay, Abraham Lincoln, 14.
                  
                     116 Frederick T. Hill, Lincoln the Lawyer,
                            11–13.
               
                     the Declaration of Independence; next, the Constitution of the 
                        United States
                    ; then the Constitution of Indiana, and then a series of statutes setting out the
                    procedure and practice in law and equity as applied to civil government, and an outline of the form
                    of organization of the government of a free democracy, state, congressional, county, township and
                    town, with a variety of statutes upon subjects of interest to the people.
            From the standpoint now of Lincoln's life and career this collection in one book was indeed
                    a great one. The English common law, in the study and practice of which I have spent fifty years of
                    my life, is in my judgment the best system of logic applied to the practical
                    affairs of men which the literature of the world has produced. The system of equity arose out of the
                    conscience of the English judges, and law and equity as outlined in these old statutes represented
                    the evolution of the life of the English people for one thousand years, and th form of these
                    statutes on court practice and procedure was taken largely from those of the older states. There is
                    a maxim in equity most frequently quoted and most effective of all defenses when properly made out,
                    that he who has unclean hands shall not come into a court of equity. This maxim is taken from a
                    verse in the Psalms, which declares that he who hath not clean hands and a pure heart shall not come
                    into the house of the Lord.
            Let the historians answer the question, What more was needed after he had mastered the contents of
                    this volume to equip Abraham Lincoln for the lifework before him, as he later followed it, when in
                    his twenty-second year, on foot, he drove an ox team out of this wilderness to the prairies of 
                        Illinois
                    ? In a very short time he entered a public career and soon measured to the mastery with
                    the best equipped and ablest men of the state.117 Let Abraham Lincoln himself
                        
                  
                     117 In an address delivered before the conference of the Historical
                            Societies of Indiana, December 12, 1920, published in Indiana State Historical publications,
                            Judge Robert W. McBride, who served for a long period in his youth in the select cavalry
                            body guard of Lincoln when President, makes the following statement of the influence of his
                            Indiana life on Lincoln: "I realize that the recital of any authentic incident
                            connected with the life of Abraham Lincoln has interest, but there are reasons why the
                            people of Indiana should feel especial interest in anything relating to him, for he was
                            essentially an Indiana product When he was brought from 
                                Kentucky
                             to Indiana, he was only seven years of age. When he left Indiana for 
                                Illinois
                             he was twenty-one years old,–a man
               
                     answer that question. Referring to the influence of the
                    Declaration of Independence and the constitution of the 
                        United States
                    , particularly the former, in forming his life and character, hear what he says on that
                    subject himself in two speeches made in Liberty Hall in 
                        Philadelphia
                     February. 22, 1861, when he was on his way to 
                        Washington
                     for his first inauguration: 
                        I can say in return, sir, that all the political sentiments I entertain have been drawn, so
                            far as I have been able to draw them, from the sentiments which originated in and were given
                            to the world from this hall. I have never had a feeling politically, that did not spring
                            from the sentiments embodied in the Declaration of Independence.
                    
                
            In his speech of February 21, 1861, in that hall, he said: 
                        As it were, to listen to those breathings, rising, within the consecrated walls wherein the
                            constitution of the 
                                United States
                            , and, I will add, the Declaration of Independence, were originally framed and
                            adopted. I assure you and your mayor that I had hoped on this occasion, and upon all
                            occasions during my life, that I shall do nothing inconsistent with the teachings of these
                            holy and most sacred walls. I have never asked anything that does not breathe from those
                            walls. All my political warfare has been in favor of the teachings that come forth from
                            these sacred walls. May my right hand forget its cunning and my tongue cleave to the roof of
                            my mouth if ever I prove false to those teachings.
                    
                
            It was no accident that when the constitution of Indiana, in 1816, prohibited human slavery and the
                    government domain in the old northwest was practically free, Thomas Lincoln and Nancy Hanks Lincoln
                    brought the boy Abraham into the wilderness of Indiana the same year. The Almighty had set him apart
                    in the wilderness and led him up to Himalayan heights, so that he might, in the fullness of time, as
                    the apostle of freedom and divine justice among men, strike the shackles from the hands of slaves.
            
                in years, in stature, and in mentality. The fourteen years between seven and twenty-one are
                        in large measure the formative years in a man's character. In those years the boy
                        Lincoln had become the man Lincoln. The foundation for the future lawyer, statesman and
                        humanitarian, had been laid, direction and color had been given to the trend of his thoughts and
                        inclinations, and that which followed was only development. It was the flowering and fruiting of
                        a plant transplanted from 
                            Kentucky
                         but grown on Indiana soil." Lincoln's growth to manhood in
                        Indiana is given full emphasis by Turner. The Frontier in American History,
                        256–241.
            
            
            It was in this wilderness, from those dry statutes, as the historians speak of them, and the works on
                    equity in Pitcher and Breckenridge's offices, that Abraham Lincoln learned that justice on
                    earth comes from the throne of God.118
            
            THE PASSING
                    OF JOHN SHRADER
            
            The historian tells us that the backwoods pioneers loved to call themselves the "Men of the
                    Western Waters", because they had settled along the streams where communication with others
                    was easier and life was safer, than in the interior of the dense forests, and this is the title
                    given by Roosevelt to the greatest chapter in the greatest of his books.119 Our
                    pioneer Christian fathers named their conferences, districts, circuits and societies after the
                    streams. There was, when John Shrader joined the 
                        Tennessee
                     conference, the 
                        Cumberland
                     and Green River districts, and north of the Ohio
                    river there were, in southern Indiana, circuits called Whitewater, 
                  
                     118 These words appear in the mss. of my address delivered in
                            December, 1919, prepared before that date, and It is a coincidence that the same Idea,
                            though in different words, is found in the work of William E. Barton, The
                            Soul of Abraham Lincoln, 50, published in 1920, where he says:
                  "They involve a certain rude and noble faith that the Judge of all the earth will
                            do right and the divine Justice and human justice have a common measure. Lincoln never
                            forgot that and he learned it on Pidgeon Creek."
                  John A. Breekenridge was a talented member of the family of that name which furnished
                            great men and great orators to the west for a century. He lived in 
                                Warrick
                             and 
                                Spencer counties
                             at an early day. When the slavery struggle became acute he moved to 
                                Texas
                            , where his son, George W. Breekenridge, died very recently, a very old man. See
                            Lincoln's testimony to the inspiration of Breckenridge's court speeches in
                            his early manhood. Lincoln the Lawyer, by Frederick T. Hill, 18. John
                            Pitcher was one of the greatest trial lawyers in Indiana, educated, studied law in 
                                Connecticut
                            , and came to Indiana about 1819. In his office at 
                                Rockport
                             Lincoln studied law. I knew Judge Pitcher very well in his old age, yet active
                            at the bar. The biographers of Lincoln spent too little time in gathering facts of
                            Lincoln's early manhood life in Indiana at the proper time. Attention was paid to
                            the stories of ignorant and illiterate braggarts, such as Dennis Hanks, and the life of
                            Early Indiana people was taken from the bottom instead of the top, where Lincoln found his
                            visions. Breekenridge and Pitcher both lived until near the close of the century, without
                            any attempt, so far as I know, to supply with their aid the missing chapter in
                            Lincoln's life. Pitcher had northern ideas on slavery. He was one of the chosen and
                            fit actors in the great drama staged in the wilderness of southern Indiana, Strong
                            circumstantial evidence exists to show that the influences following the 
                                Missouri
                             Compromise, which according to Charnwood so powerfully influenced
                            Lincoln's whole life, were correctly interpreted to him by John Pitcher, whose
                            life, when written, will, I believe, shine to the reflected light of the life and ideals of
                            Abraham Lincoln.
                  
                            119
                            The Winning of the West.
                        
               
                    
                    Blue River, Silver Creek, Patoka and 
                        Wabash
                    , the last named extending into 
                        Illinois
                    . Here John Shrader spent the greater part of his life in his work in the ministry, and,
                    from the time of his location until the age of four score and seven years, when he died April
                    15,1879, he retained his home near Poseyville in 
                        Posey county
                    , Indiana, though at times he temporarily lived elsewhere as an active minister.
            The last work John Shrader ever did was in his 87th year, to walk two miles from his house to collect
                    quarterage for the support of the church to which he belonged. When he started to return, a friend
                    said to him that if he would wait a short time he would have a chance to ride, but he answered that
                    the distance was not far and he would walk. The distance, however, was too great for his strength,
                    and coming up the hill near the end of his journey he fell and bruised his face; erysipelas set in
                    and took his life.
            The minister who preached his funeral sermon, and who knew him well, said if John Shrader had any
                    vices he did not know of them, and if there were any virtues which he did not have he did not know
                    of them–a beautiful tribute to a beautiful character and a beautiful life.
            In his dying hours he was delirious, so the doctors thought, but there came from his lips an audible,
                    continuous, coherent prayer to God. He was in communion with his God. It was the passing of John
                    Shrader from among mortals, to the ranks and the land of immortals.
            In that prayer he might have said, as did Tennyson, when nearing his end, in his last prayer, while
                    pleading with his God
            I shall pass but shall not die.
            If it were given to me, a mortal, to proclaim a vision, I would say, so it came to pass with John
                    Shrader.
            From the neighboring village of Poseyville, where in the old village churchyard his body lies today,
                    in one of the garden spots of the earth, where the valley of the Patoka joins the valley of the 
                        Wabash
                    , where he had reared his children and finished his great work–great for time
                    and great for eternity –where he had lived to see the wilderness into which he had come
                    in the vigor of his young manhood, from the southland,  before
                    the birth of this commonwealth, in the twilight of our history, blossom into a Christian empire of
                    between two and three million souls, the foundations of which were in part laid by
                    him–one of God's commonwealth builders–there passed out into the
                    spirit world, greeting its Maker ere it left its body, the soul of John Shrader.
         
         
         
            The Approach To History
            By LOGAN ESAREY
            
            The hard plain highway to mathematics is by the multiplication table. A great deal of time has been
                    wasted by teachers in vain attempts to find an easier road for children but sooner or later all such
                    teachers have, together with their classes, been lost in the byways. They have been compelled to
                    return to the hard straight, plain road. The every day mathematics to every-day children is
                    addition, subtraction, multiplication and division and these processes must be learned. It can
                    neither be avoided nor delayed.
            The fundamental ideas of geography are land, water, climate, distance, direction, people and the
                    products of all these singly and in conjunction. These lie all about us in our immediate presence.
                    Teachers of geography have finally come to recognize that the only approach to their subject is
                    through the immediate neighborhood to the world at large.
            Teachers of biology have long ago quit requiring primary pupils to commit to memory the so-called
                    laws of life and have begun by learning the concrete facts of life in the neighborhood. The plants,
                    birds, insects, animals and their habits are the text books.
            Language teachers have ceased to teach, as introductory language work, the abstract rules of grammar
                    and composition and are using the ordinary speech of ordinary folks as used in their ordinary
                    experiences.
            In spite of the plain warnings from these sources history teachers in large numbers still cling to
                    the old idea of beginning history teaching at and with the beginning of history. It would seem there
                    is as much reason for beginning zoology with the first animal life on earth; botany, with the first
                    plant life; or language, with the first efforts of the cave man to communicate his mind to others.
            History deals with man in his struggles for freedom from the restraining circumstances of his
                    environment. In this struggle many organizations or institutions have been developed. It is a
                    mistake to assume that social life or institutions  were simpler
                    in the beginning of history. The whole tendency of civilization is to simplify human life and its
                    institutions, just as law and order are simpler than chance and violence. And even if early life
                    were simpler the difficulty in procuring evidences of and the changed environment around early
                    society would make it impracticable to begin history there. Only the most highly trained
                    imaginations can realize the conditions of society in the remote ages. And if this were not reason
                    enough the fact is that the early institutions were so entirely different from ours at present that
                    a thorough knowledge of them would be of no more advantage to a citizen than a knowledge of the
                    surgery of ancient 
                        Egypt
                     would be in a modern clinic.
            In Indiana we have not yet entirely discarded the culture epoch theory in our primary history. For
                    years our children struggled with the imaginary problems of Kablu as he labored to develop Aryan
                    institutions under the shadows of the Altai and Hindu Kush
                    mountains; or attended imaginary popular assemblies with Wolf the Saxon in the swamps and
                    shades of north 
                        Germany
                    . For years all the preparation for citizenship in Indiana obtained in the primary
                    schools of the state was obtained from the puerile stories of the Ten Boys or Ten Little Sisters.
                    These books might, at least, have been written so as to acquaint the children with the language of
                    history, but even this was neglected.
            A variation of this culture epoch program consists in arranging the present people of the earth in a
                    series according to their development in civilization and making the history course accordingly.
                    Thus the first grade would begin with life in Aryan and Egyptian times, tent dwellers, shepherds,
                    nomads, passing to the Phoenicians, Hottentots and Indians, thence in the middle or grammar grades
                    to Medieval history and in the seventh and eighth grades to modern civilization. The redeeming
                    feature of this scheme, it is said, is that the child is always studying that period of civilization
                    which corresponds to his own nature.
            Still another variation of this widespread culture epoch theory in history teaching is the dramatic
                    or literary plan. These teachers assume that history is an epic or drama. Thus to the young child
                    history becomes a fable or fairy story; to  the more advanced it
                    becomes a heroic legend, or saga, to the still more advanced, an epic; to the highest grades it is
                    drama, the drama of life. All this is very beautiful and is based on that favorite
                    "bed-rock principle of pedagogy", natural interest. The only serious objection to
                    it is it has no history in it. Other objections need hardly be considered. If a citizen's
                    duties consisted principally in attending movies, theatres or opera this would be ideal preparation.
            The culture-epoch theory of education it may be stated, in conclusion, rests on two assumptions.
                    First, there is a uniform progress in civilization common to all people. Second this progress is
                    from the simple to the complex. Both assumptions are unsupported by historical evidence and if they
                    were as certain as the theory of gravitation two far more important pedagogical principles would be
                    violated by the culture-epoch program. First, no conclusion of history should be presented to a
                    class without its supporting evidence. There is no supporting evidence for the culture-epoch theory.
                    Second, education in general proceeds from the known to the related unknown. History is read and
                    understood, if it is understood, through the "here" and the
                    "now".
            A second approach to history, almost as widespread as the culture-epoch and equally vicious, is the
                    heroic. This theory of history is upheld by Rousseau, Carlysle and Emerson among others. Briefly
                    stated it assumes that history is the biography of heroes. Great forward movements are the
                    socialization of the thoughts of a single man and are established by the efforts of some far-seeing
                    individual. The masses are to institutions only what brick and mortar are to a building–
                    mere unthinking passive material. The idea permeates and vitiates history writing as well as history
                    teaching.
            We have the history of 
                        England
                     in Heroes of English History; of America, in Heroes of American History; of 
                        Germany
                     in Heroes of 
                        German
                     History and so of 
                  Greece, Rome, Spain
               , Jewry and the
                    world. Three principal considerations support this theory.
            First is the ethical. The biographies are chosen for their moral content. It is the intention that
                    the mind and conduct of the pupils shall be moulded by the thoughts and conduct of the hero studied.
                    Here begin insuperable difficulties. No  hero fills the bill
                    exactly. The hard choice must be met of teaching doubtful morals or of falsifying history. No
                    hesitation has been shown to choose the latter as the lesser of the two evils. Beginning with
                    Plutarch a long list of historians have idealized and moralized biography until it is rare indeed to
                    find a sound biography. They have given us expurgated heroes from Adam to Roosevelt. The stuff has
                    been washed out, softened, sweetened, and sugar-coated till red-blooded children even have turned
                    away in disgust. On such a foundation no teacher can hope to build, later, an appreciation or
                    understanding of history. Rousseau, who first insisted on biography as an approach to history,
                    demanded for Emile a truthful biography. We need not stop here to inquire how valuable such teaching
                    is for ethics. We need only note that these biographies are not written from sound evidence and
                    hence can have no value for history.
            A second argument for the hero in history is that he is an epitome of his times. Some biographies do
                    come up to this definition–such as Morley's Life of Gladstone, Hay and
                    Nico-lay's Life of Lincoln, or Thayer's Life of Cavour, but there is no danger of
                    these becoming texts in primary history. Such voluminous biographies are necessary to show the
                    tremendous influences of the times on the man. To teach that the times have no influence on the man
                    is to falsify history and no method which does not entirely recognize the integrity of its subject
                    matter can be valid. In otheV words scholarship is a condition of both teacher and teaching which
                    cannot be violated. To say that the American Revolution is but a biography of 
                        Washington
                    , or of 
                  Washington, Franklin
               , Henry and any number of their companions is
                    to neglect the evidence of history. Napoleon and Cromwell were successful so long only as they were
                    supported by the people. 
                        Washington
                     and Lincoln were more successful because they went no farther than the public opinion
                    of their times would support. In other words every leader, except perhaps a few military captains,
                    is to be tried by a jury of his peers rather than worshiped by a choir of servants. The method
                    moveover is dangerous in a democracy. It leads to a belief in the mythical super-man of which we
                    have entirely too much in the 
                        United States
                     at present. A nation of people which accepts its 
                    leaders' statements without the proof to support them is worthy of a despot and will soon
                    have him. The chief secondary aim of history, the training of independent, self-reliant judgment, is
                    not only neglected by hero history but is violated. Quite recently such heroes as John Jacob Astor,
                    Vanderbilt, Rockefeller and Carnegie have been set up as models of thrift in Indiana. This is
                    hero-worship gone mad and if it were not so dangerous would be ridiculous. The 
                        German
                     school children were fed for generations on hero stories until a distorted patriotism
                    led them to view their leaders and 
                        German
                     Culture with veneration if not worship. The late disaster in Europe is traceable
                    directly to vicious historians and history teaching. It is hardly necessary to point out that 
                        German
                     methods have obtained a powerful foothold in our schools.
            The third argument for the hero or biographical approach is that biography is simpler than history
                    and therefore more easily understood. The last part of this statement goes back for its
                    justification to the old and pervasive fundamental of Rousseauistic pedagogy that children should be
                    taught what they prefer or what they like. This is said to be the natural method. In spite of much
                    that is said to the contrary it seems best to preserve the school for work. Work does not follow
                    lines of least resistance. It goes over and through obstacles rather than around them. History
                    requires work just as arithmetic, grammar, or spelling. It takes mental exertion to comprehend a
                    problem in arithmetic, a rule of grammar or the Battle of Bunker Hill. No
                    amount of play, which follows lines of inclination or least resistance, will ever acquire this or
                    any other knowledge worth while. There is no accomplishment to the children or promise to the
                    teacher in this recreation pedagogy.
            The claim of simplicity is a valid claim if true. It is worth while to approach any problem in
                    teaching at its simplest point. Admitting this however is not admitting the proposition that an
                    individual is more easily understood than an event or even an institution. Biography is exactly the
                    storm center of history. Cause and effect are large factors in events. Few children of the age of
                    twelve but will follow step by step from evidence to event and from event to event up to the
                    outbreak of the Revolution, but how many will  understand why
                    the wealthy, aristocratic 
                        Washington
                     should have been its leader? One can understand Samuel Adams or John Hancock, whose
                    business was interfered with, more easily. One can appreciate why the theoretical, impulsive young
                    Jefferson should sit on the committee that wrote the Declaration but how about the aged, prosperous,
                    happy, respected, practical, prudent, 
                        Franklin
                    ? A more plausible reason for the biography seems to be that the hero furnishes a thread
                    or unity to the action hard to attain otherwise. A human being is certainly more concrete and
                    comprehensible than an abstract idea but to substitute 
                        Washington
                     for patriotism, David for religion or Lincoln for justice is of doubtful efficacy and
                    may lead to a reaction or a backslide later in life which will more than undo all that has been
                    accomplished.
            Still another large number of teachers use children's histories. Some of the texts were
                    extremely simplified by being written in words of one syllable. The game is mere byplay. A thought
                    cannot be simplified any more than a proposition in Euclid by being stated in simple language. Every
                    writer of history, deserving the name, tells his story in the simplest, clearest manner. No two
                    authors write with equal force and clearness. The text which excels in these qualities, both being
                    equally trustworthy, is of course the best; but the child-language text is a farce.
            One of the chief purposes in primary history is to acquaint children with the language of history, in
                    fact when this acquaintance is complete the work of primary history is complete.
            We may then dismiss the idea of adulterating or dieting history to make it easier for the earlier
                    grades. Some events of the Revolution may be singled out and taught because they lead immediately to
                    concrete results, but it is not necessary to use in the teaching anything but the authentic evidence
                    of history; it is not necessary to teach anything which later will be found useless or have to be
                    repudiated. The Boston Tea Party is a simple event, easily led up to and easily understood; but to
                    connect that with the Vigilantes in 
                        San Francisco
                     eighty years later is far more difficult. There is no lack of such concrete material in
                    history, entirely authentic which when  learned will never have
                    to be repudiated as a childish story learned in the grades.
            Just here, however, is the grave error in most history-teaching and the beginning of the downfall of
                    most history students. How many teachers can picture in their minds the scene in old 
                        Boston
                     on the night of December 16, 1773? To the ordinary sixth grade pupil in Indiana
                    practically every element in the picture is strange. Nor is there any means at hand by which the
                    teacher can make it real–the old city, the streets, the costumes, the ship, the wharf.
                    Come to think about it, how much preparation would be required to teach so simple an event?
                    Evidently the approach to history must begin nearer home and nearer now.
            Perhaps some member of the class–and this might be done in any of the early grammar
                    grades–has attended a woman's club, some boy has had personal experience of a
                    farmers' meeting or a political meeting; another may know about the nearest church, a brick
                    yard, a tobacco field, a cotton field, a factory, a political convention, a camp-meeting, a hospital
                    or one of the hundreds of events, customs, associations, businesses, buildings, offices or
                    institutions that make up the neighborhood society. If all this is learned in a year good progress
                    will have been made.
            The next step involves a considerable power of imagination and accordingly as it is well done will
                    the capacity and appreciation for history be developed. From the immediate society of the
                    neighborhood the second step should take the class to events which they cannot observe, either
                    remote in time or place, or both. The less remote usually the easier will be the problem. Society in
                    Indiana at the time of the Civil war furnishes an excellent field for this training. It should be
                    kept in mind that the principal purpose is to learn how to study history at the same time keeping in
                    mind that what is learned is valuable and reliable. Indiana in 1860 was in the homespun age. The
                    typical farm home, a double log house or red brick, contained a loom, spinning wheel and reel; there
                    were also the fireplace, the big, high beds, the trundle-bed, perhaps a fireplace in the kitchen
                    fitted up with cranes, hooks and pans for cooking; in the spring house were the milk and butter, the
                    apples, potatoes and turnips were in the  cellar or holed up in
                    the ground (if it were winter). In the barn and barnyard were horses, oxen, cattle, hogs, sheep,
                    geese, chickens of all breeds and appearances. A class of farm children could spend a month
                    profitably studying the farm stock as described in the old Indiana Agricultural reports, comparing
                    them with the stock on the farm at present. In the barn might be found a scythe, a cradle, a cycle,
                    a breaking plow most probably with a wooden mould-board, a jumping shovel, hoes, hand rakes, a wagon
                    and perhaps a carriage. In the fields, orchard and garden almost everything used for feed, food, or
                    clothing will be growing. From the old ash hopper comes the lye for soapmaking and there sits the
                    big 40 gallon iron kettle "for soap, sap or soup" as a writer of the times
                    observes. There are the sheep from whose backs come the wool for clothing; there are the hogs to be
                    butchered along near Christmastime and meat put up for the year; there in the smoke house is the box
                    of dirt where the fire is made to smoke the hams and middlings hanging on hickory hooks fastened to
                    the joists above; yonder is the grove where the sugar is made in early spring. When the flour and
                    meal are all gone you might make an imaginary trip to the old water mill, meet dozens of farmers
                    from all parts of the county, wait your turn till your grist is ground. About once a year, usually
                    in the fall, all the marketable produce on the farm was loaded into the farm wagon and a trip was
                    made to the nearest city to trade. Sometimes this trip consumed a week. All the fine things in the
                    stores were seen and some of them bought– perhaps a cook-stove, an organ or a sewing
                    machine. Still more important would be making a flat-boat, loading it, and running it down to 
                        New Orleans
                    . The old fashioned home life of the fifties and sixties was rich in picturesque
                    historical material. There was a whole round of social gatherings– the log rolling,
                    quilting, singing school, spelling match, barbecue, debate, camp-meeting and literary.
            In the city the change has been equally great. The city of the fifties had no street, no sewer, no
                    police, no street lights, no street cars, but there were taverns, lyceums, theaters, churches,
                    stores and some fine houses. Its life was not nearly so rich as that of the farm. To these might be
                    added a visit  to the old district school, to the old fashioned
                    court, to the legislature and other institutions of the time.
            No attempt need be made here to complete the outline. From society in the fifties in Indiana one
                    might pass to the old plantation south, to colonial 
                        New England
                    , to Indian life, to hunters, trappers, to the soldiers of the Civil War, to the Mexican
                    War, to the Revolution. These are the elements of history. Once a child has learned the meaning of
                    these terms and how to picture them from the printed page it is ready to take up the systematic
                    study of history. If the training has been successful there will be no need nor thought of
                    memorizing words or dates in history any more than there is in mathematics or science. It is a
                    question of understanding. Words fade away into the pictures they are intended for. The drudgery of
                    history disappears but work, absorbing work, in plenty remains.
         
         
         
            The Fugitive Slave Law of 1850 In Indiana
            By CHARLES H. MONEY, A.M.
            When the constitution was being formulated by the convention at 
                        Philadelphia
                     in 1787, one of the problems that came up for solution was the reclamation of
                    fugitives. Among all the colonies it had become a custom, or rather a matter of inter-colonial
                    comity, if a slave ran away from his master into another state or a fugitive was fleeing from
                    justice he should be returned to the state from which he fled. Thus, the custom had grown up among
                    the colonies before the Revolutionary war and still continued to be their custom in reclaiming
                    chattel property or bringing about justice. In the constitutional convention all the states seemed
                    to agree on the subject of slavery except North and 
                        South Carolina
                     and 
                        Georgia
                    . At this time these states deemed slavery necessary to their prosperity. To make sure
                    that they would not lose their slaves, by their running away, they forced into the constitution the
                    provision for a general fugitive slave law. Another clause provided for fugitives from justice. The
                    clause relative to service is as follows: "No person held to service or labor in one state
                    under the laws thereof escaping into another, shall, in consequence of any law or regulation therein
                    be discharged from such service or labor, but shall be delivered up on claim of the party to whom
                    such service or labor may be due."
            This clause was carried out by an act of congress passed February 12, 1793, and signed by President
                    Washington. It was our first fugitive slave law, and remained a part of our law for fifty-seven
                    years. The first part of the act had to do with fugitives from justice. The last part was concerned
                    with run-away slaves. The part relating to criminals merely specified the manner in which demands
                    were to be made upon governors for their extradition, and left it entirely within the discretion of
                    the governors as to whether they would comply with the demands. That relating to "fugitives
                    from service" was more explicit, and provided that any one apprehending such a fugitive
                    should take him before a 
                        United States
                     judge or before a magistrate of any county, city, or town, make proof of his character
                    as property, and receive from the judge  or magistrate a
                    certificate authorizing him to remove the fugitive to the state whence he had fled. Along in 1815
                    the increased value of negroes caused many complaints to be made of kidnapping free negroes to be
                    sold south. On the other hand, the border states complained that their property was being enticed
                    away from them into free states.
            The objection was raised in the north to the act of 1793 that it imposed duties upon state
                    magistrates which did not belong to them, and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     passed a law carefully regulating the manner in which alleged fugitives were to be
                    tried and remanded. The Prigg case came into the courts as a result of this act which was passed by 
                        Pennsylvania
                     in 1826. Prigg was the agent of Margaret Ashmore, a citizen of 
                        Maryland
                    , owner of a negro woman who had escaped into 
                        Pennsylvania
                    . Under warrant from a magistrate of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , Prigg had caused the woman to be apprehended, but he was unable to persuade the local
                    authority, before whom she was brought, to take further notice of the case. Prigg then carried the
                    woman and her children vi et armis out of 
                        Pennsylvania
                     and delivered them to their owner. Prigg was later indicted for felony under the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     law. Judgment in the lower court against him was reaffirmed in the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Supreme Court in 1842. By a writ of error the case was taken to the Supreme Court of
                    the 
                        United States
                    , and, in an opinion rendered by Justice Story, the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     law was held to be unconstitutional, but it was also held that congress could not
                    impose such duties on state officials. Chief Justice Taney rendered a dissenting opinion, holding
                    that the master had the right to seize his property anywhere, that such was part of the organic law
                    of the nation and state officials were bound to execute it the same as other laws. The doubts
                    expressed by the majority of the 
                        United States
                     supreme court as to the duties of state officials caused the passage of personal
                    liberty laws in many of the northern states. By these laws state officials were forbidden to assist
                    in reclaiming alleged runaway slaves. The passage and enforcement of these laws in the north gave
                    men in the slave states an opportunity to demand the enactment of a more rigid fugitive slave law.
                    It was perfectly evident that the northern states could no longer be depended upon for the
                    enforcement of the old law of 1793.
            
            It is necessary at this point to see what the provisions of the fugitive slave law of 1850 were, that
                    caused such profound excitement in Indiana, and what action was taken by her representatives on this
                    subject.
            In the first place the law provided that 
                        United States
                     Commissioners should have the powers which had previously been held by local judges in
                    the act of 1793. It was incumbent upon the judges of the district courts of the 
                        United States
                     and the judges of the superior courts of the 
                        United States
                     territories to appoint from among the several persons who may for the time being hold
                    office under the government of the 
                        United States
                     any number of commissioners not exceeding three in each county within their respective
                    districts and territories of the 
                        United States
                     and to require such commissioners to administer all necessary oaths, to examine
                    witnesses and to hear and determine cases under the fugitive clause of the constitution and this
                    act, concurrent with the jurisdiction of the judges of the circuit and district courts of the 
                        United States
                    . They had the powers to grant certificates to claimants upon satisfactory proof, and
                    authority to have said fugitive removed to the state or territory from which he came.
            Section two provided that the 
                        United States
                     marshals and deputy marshals were to execute all warrants issued. To enable the
                    commissioners to conduct business expeditiously they had the power to appoint one or more persons
                    from time to time to aid them in executing their warrants. If a marshal or deputy marshal refused to
                    receive such warrant or process or diligently execute the same, he should be fined $1,000
                    to be used by the claimant. Should a marshal or deputy let a fugitive escape from his custody
                    "with or without assent," he would become liable to prosecution by the claimant
                    for the full value of labor or service of the fugitive in the state, territory or district whence he
                    escaped. If it were necessary marshals could summon and call to their aid the by-standers, or posse
                    comitatus of that county "and all good citizens are hereby commanded to aid and assist in
                    the prompt and efficient execution of this law."
            Section three provided that "the person or persons to whom such service or labor may be due,
                    or his, her or their agent or attorney" by the power of attorney in writing acknowledged
                         and certified under seal of some legal officer or court of
                    the state or territory in which the same may be executed, may pursue and reclaim the fugitive either
                    by procuring a warrant from the proper circuit, district, or county court for the arrest of the
                    fugitive or by directly seizing the fugitive, taking him before such court, judge or commissioner
                    whose duty it is to hear and determine the case, "in a summary manner," and on
                    satisfactory proof being made of the identity of the fugitive and the services due, the fugitive
                    should then be returned to the state or territory whence he escaped. The testimony of the fugitive
                    was not to be admitted in evidence but the certificate mentioned was to be conclusive against him,
                    and was to prevent all molestation by any process issued by any court, judge, magistrate, or other
                    person whomsoever.
            Section four provided that "any person who shall knowingly and willingly obstruct, hinder or
                    prevent such claimant or his agent from arresting such fugitive or shall rescue, or attempt to
                    rescue such fugitive from service or labor when so arrested, or shall aid, abet or assist such
                    person so owing service or labor to escape from the claimant or shall harbor. or conceal such
                    fugitive, so as to prevent the discovery and arrest of such person, after notice or knowledge of the
                    fact that such person was a fugitive from service or labor, shall for either of said offenses, be
                    subject to a fine not exceeding $1,000 and imprisonment not exceeding six months. Further
                    he shall pay by way of civil damages to the injured party the sum of $1,000, to be
                    recovered by action of debt in any district or territorial court aforesaid where the offense was
                    committed."
            The last section provided that on affidavit of the claimant that he was fearful of a rescue, the
                    officer capturing the fugitive was authorized to employ as many persons as might be necessary to
                    convey such slave to the place whence he fled, all expenses thereof to be paid out of the 
                        United States
                     treasury.
            Marshals, deputy marshals and clerks were paid for services the like fees as may be allowed to them
                    for similar services in other cases. Where there was a direct arrest or where the case failed for
                    want of sufficient proof, then fees were to be paid by claimant. In all cases before a commissioner,
                    the commissioner was to receive $10 when the certificate was  granted, $5 when the evidence was insufficient for issuance
                    of certificate, the fees to be paid by the claimant in each instance.
            The law also provided that any claimant, by affidavit before any court of record in his own state or
                    territory, might obtain a record with a general description of the fugitive, and an authenticated
                    copy of such record was to be conclusive evidence, on proof of the identity of the fugitive, for
                    issuing a certificate in any state or territory to which the slave had fled.2
            
            It is evident that the provisions of the bill were ironclad. Its execution fell to the lot of the
                    federal government and to federal officials instead of the various states. A rigorous enforcement it
                    was believed would break up the habit of slaves running away from their masters. In its provisions,
                    it fully met the approval of the south which had been complaining about the nullification of the act
                    of 1793 by the different state enactments of the personal liberty laws. Now they had a law with the
                    whole federal government back of it and they were fully assured of its execution in all northern
                    states. They were fully assured by the president, Mr. Fillmore, that its provisions would be
                    promptly and fully executed at all hazards as long as he was the chief executive of the country. So
                    far as history records, no one doubts the truth of the president's statements on the
                    subject. He had been so determined about its execution that in reply to an ex-senator's
                    query about the law being enforced he had said: "To the very letter, sir, to the very
                    letter." Later he declared for its execution even at the risk of blood. It might be worth
                    noting that the signing of this obnoxious bill by Mr. Fillmore and its subsequent execution brought
                    him upon the rocks and reefs of his political career.
            The fugitive law of 1850 originated in the senate. By a resolution of Mr. Foote amended by Mr.
                    Mangum, a committee of thirteen were chosen to submit a compromise bill on the subject of slavery in
                    the Mexican cession, the slave trade in the 
                        District of Columbia
                    , the admission of 
                        California
                     and the fugitive slave question. This committee was chosen by ballot of the senate. Its
                    membership included Mr. Clay, who was chairman. Messrs. Bell, Berrien, Bright, Cass, Cooper,
                    Dickinson, Downs, King, Mason, Mangum, Phelps and Webster. The 
                  
                     2
                            Congressional Globe, 31st Congress, 1st Session, Senate, 1582.
               
                     personnel of the committee discloses the fact that one of
                    Indiana's senators served on the grand committee which brought forth the bill. Jesse D.
                    Bright was the senior senator from Indiana at the time the bill became a law and was a member of the
                    committee of thirteen. Our junior senator at this time was ex-Governor James Whitcomb.
            Mr. Bright was not a native of Indiana. He was born in 
                  Norwich, New York
               , in 1812 and
                    removed to Indiana with his parents while still a small boy, settling at 
                  Madison, Jefferson
                    county
               . He was not a learned man on any point, and his education on all points
                    was deficient, but he was possessed of a strong way of putting his case before the people that made
                    him an effective campaigner. He possessed a strong will and in political matters he was always
                    prompt, quick to decide and quick to act. He was a thoroughgoing politician and soon built up, for
                    himself, a strong political machine, which kept him in the senate until his expulsion in 1862. On
                    every slavery question that came before the senate he always took the most extreme southern view. In
                    the election of 1860 he strongly opposed Douglas and declared himself for Breckinridge. After his
                    expulsion from the senate for treason he asked the Indiana legislature to re-elect him for the
                    remaining forty or fifty days, but it refused. This defeat in 1863 he laid at the door of Thomas A.
                    Hendricks. He was much embittered by this defeat and never engaged in politics again. He was the
                    owner of extensive tracts of land in 
                        Kentucky
                     and a large number of slaves. In 1874, he left the state of Indiana, removing to
                            
                  Baltimore, Maryland
               , where he died, May 20, 1875. Bright lacked much of being a
                    great man, but he was a remarkable party leader and politician.
            With such an attitude towards slavery as Mr. Bright expressed in his thought and action, no one has
                    reason to wonder at his thorough agreement with Senator Mason of 
                        Virginia
                    , the author of the fugitive slave bill of 1850. No one can doubt where he stood on the
                    subject. He was strongly pro-slavery and agreed with every section of the bill. It did happen that
                    on the day of its final passage he did not vote. The reason for his absence from the senate chamber
                    on the day the vote was taken is disclosed a little later in a controversy that took place on this
                    point between the Statesman
                     and the 
                        Madison
                    
                    Courier, two newspapers of 
                        Madison
                    . The Statesman had made it appear that Bright had been attacked by a
                    bit of political nervousness, for it said: 
                        Was not his country bleeding at every pore–and was not the oil of consolation just
                            getting ready to be applied–and was it not becoming a representative of the
                            Democracy of Indiana to stand firm at the post of duty? Dare the Courier
                            defend this dodging? Come, Mr. Courier, enlighten us. Tell
                            us–do–why Jesse dodged the vote?3
                  
                    
                
            To this the Courier replied: 
                        If the Statesman wants further proof, we refer it to one or two prominent
                            Whigs in the neighborhood of its co-laborer, the 
                                Evansville
                            
                            Journal, who were in 
                                Washington
                             at the time, endeavoring to get a mail line established by the postoffice
                            department, from 
                                Evansville
                             to 
                                Louisville
                             and all along the shore.4
                  
                    
                
            All this controversy came a few days before the re-election of Mr. Bright to the senate. While the
                    motive was political it does probably show the reason for his absence as well as what he said
                    himself of the occurrence about nine months' later. The reason for his explanation came
                    upon a motion of Senator Sumner to amend the allowance authorized in the fugitive slave law for the
                    expenses incurred in executing the act for the surrender of fugitives from service. At this time he
                    said: 
                        Mr. President, I did not vote for the fugitive slave law on the question of its final
                            passage, for the reason I was not in my place at the time the vote was taken. I was
                            accidentally absent. Had I been here it is well understood I would have voted for it. I was
                            honored with a place on the committee of thirteen, which formed and reported the compromise
                                measures.5
                  
                    
                
            A little later, in speaking of the bill, he said: 
                        If I felt that it was incumbent on me to find a justification for my support of the
                            "fugitive slave law" I would, as the senator from 
                                Illinois
                             has done, point to the constitution which forms this confederacy, and say that
                            having taken an oath to support it, so long as I remain a law maker under it, I shall ever
                            hold myself ready and willing to aid in the enactment of all laws having for their object
                            the aid necessary to carry into effect every one of its provisions.
                    
                
            
               
                  3 Statesman, Jan. 1, '51.
               
                  4
                        
                            Madison
                        
                        Courier, Jan., 51.
               
                  5
                        Congressional Globe, 32d Cong., 1st Session, 1123.
            
            
            In the same speech he declared against all "agitators," against those disturbers of
                    the compromise measures, against "that class of politicians who cry repeal and set up the
                    ‘higher law’ as their rule of action." He declared himself
                    "supported by at least nine-tenths of the voters of Indiana." Indiana voters
                    "unite in repudiating disunionists south and abolitionists north."
            Indiana's junior senator in 1850 was ex-Governor James Whitcomb. Mr. Whitcomb was not a
                    native of Indiana, having been born in the Green Mountain state near Winsor,
                    December 1, 1795. Senator Whitcomb contrasted with Mr. Bright in nearly every point. He was several
                    years older than his colleague, had been a careful student all his life, was a graduate of
                    Transylvania University, of 
                  Lexington, Kentucky
               , was a good lawyer and was one of the
                    most popular leaders of the democratic party in the state of his adoption. He located first at 
                        Bloomington
                    , Indiana, in 1824 following his chosen profession of law. In 1841, upon his return from 
                        Washington
                    , where he had been commissioner of the general land office, he again began the practice
                    of law locating at 
                        Terre Haute
                    , Indiana. During the Mexican war he was Indiana's governor, filling that
                    position with dignity and honor. In December, 1848, he was elected to the 
                        United States
                     senate as a successor of Edward A. Hannegan. He did not have an opportunity to display
                    his ability in that body because his health was broken and he was forced to absent himself
                    frequently from its sessions. He also found Mr. Bright strongly intrenched with his colleagues and
                    with the administration. They were too dissimilar in character or political methods to have much in
                    common, and as Senator Bright was a man who never brooked opposition or interference, Mr. Whitcomb
                    found himself with but little influence. This disappointment aggravated, no doubt, his disease and
                    he died before serving out half his term. His death occurred at 
                        New York
                    , October 4, 1852.
            In the senate, as has been said, Mr. Whitcomb was absent quite a bit of the time while the fugitive
                    slave bill was on passage. In the course of an explanation as to why the bill had not been called up
                    Mr. Whitcomb said: 
                        It is but due to myself to say, as may be already inferred, that I did not approve of all the
                            features of the bill in the shape in which it was 
                            introduced, but I certainly was ready and I yet am ready to vote for it whenever it shall be
                            brought forward in a suitable shape, to carry out, in good faith and perfect fairness, the
                            plain provisions of the constitution upon the subject.
                    
                
            Later he said: 
                        And, I will add, such is my confidence in the patriotism of the people and their deep and
                            abiding love of the union, that I have no doubt, whenever a bill of the kind referred to
                            becomes a law, it will yet commend itself to the cheerful acquiescence and support of the
                            great majority of the people of both the north and of the south.6
                  
                    
                
            These are not the words of a strong pro-slavery man, but rather of a man who is seeking
                    reconciliation and harmony in the nation. He was not ready and willing to vote for the measure as it
                    was first formulated, not because it was protecting slavery, but because it would give the south a
                    fair deal in the fulfillment of the plain provisions of the constitution on the subject of a
                    fugitive from service. He would vote for it merely as an expediency and a necessity, not because he
                    felt sympathy with the institution of slavery. Mr. Bright would vote for it because he was a slave
                    owner and believed with the slave holders of the south. Both Indiana senators were for the bill, but
                    for different reasons. Both senators failed to vote for the bill, one because his health was bad and
                    the other because he was engaged in the establishment of a post route along the Ohio
                    river.
            In 1850, Indiana had ten representatives in the lower house, eight democrats and two whigs. The First
                    district was represented by Mr. Albertson, a democrat; the second by C. L. Dunham, a democrat; the
                    Third by J. L. Robinson, a democrat; the Fourth by G. W. Julian, a democrat; the Fifth by W. J.
                    Brown, a democrat; the Sixth by W. A. Gorman, a democrat; the Seventh by Ed. W. McGaughey, a whig;
                    the Eighth by Joseph E. McDonald, a democrat; the Ninth by Graham N. Fitch, a democrat; the Tenth by
                    Mr. Harlan, a democrat.7 Nothing was said by any of these gentlemen while the
                    bill was passing the lower house, because the previous question was moved by Mr. Thompson of 
                        Pennsylvania
                    , cutting off all debate. 
                  
                     6
                            Congressional Globe, 1st Sess., 31 Cong., 1574.
                  
                     7
                            Indiana Statesman, Sept. 25, '50.
               
                     When it came to a vote, six representatives voted for the bill
                    and four opposed. Those who voted aye were, Albertson, Brown, Durham, Gorman, McDonald and
                    McGaughey. Those who voted nay were, Fitch, Harlan, Julian and Robinson. It will be observed that
                    those voting for the bill were five democrats and one whig. Those voting against it were four
                    democrats. In this way did the representatives put themselves upon record. By the time of the next
                    congressional election in '51a very strong reaction had set in, and many representatives
                    were made to suffer for their vote. Mr. Albertson was not renominated from the First district, but
                    in his place the democrats nominated James Lockhart, who defeated L. Q. DeBruler, a whig. In the
                    Second district Mr. Durham was renominated and re-elected by a large majority. J. L. Robinson was
                    re-elected from the Third by a reduced majority. G. W. Julian voted against the bill and was
                    defeated by Samuel W. Parker, a whig, whom Julian had defeated two years before by securing the
                    votes of Free Soilers, independent democrats and anti-slave whigs. W. J. Brown was set aside in the
                    Fifth by the democrats for Thomas A. Hendricks who defeated W. P. Rush. In the Sixth, the democrats
                    renominated and returned W. A. Gorman over Eli P. Farmer. In the Seventh Edward W. McGaughey was
                    defeated by J. G. Davis. McGaughey was defeated largely because of his vote on the fugitive slave
                    bill. He made as able a campaign as possible, but many whigs could not vote for him because of his
                    stand on the question. McDonald of the Eighth had voted for the slave law and his party would not
                    renominate him for congress. They cast him aside for Daniel Mace, who defeated D. Brier in a close
                    election. G. N. Fitch of 
                        Logansport
                    , had voted against the bill and was renominated and re-elected over Schuyler Colfax.
                    Mr. Harlan of the Tenth was not again nominated. The democrats nominated J. W. Borden, who defeated
                    S. Brenton, a whig, by a narrow margin.
            It will be observed that the people had begun to take up the subject so early as the next
                    congressional election and had cudgeled some of the candidates quite lively over their stand on the
                    slave law. With all the talk of finality, which senators and representatives used
                    up and down the land, there was a growing minority which would not keep still, nor live at  peace with the law which had been enacted. They did not have
                    political power enough yet to obtain their desire, but in many instances they brought about the
                    defeat of candidates who participated in the enactment of the law of 1850. The majority of people
                    throughout the north accepted the law, not through love for its principles but because of their love
                    for the union. In this movement Indiana was no exception.
            At this point let the popular feeling then existing in the state be expressed through their
                    newspapers and local meetings. Evidences of harmony will first be portrayed and this will be
                    indicative of the will of the majority of the people of the state at that time.
            The best type of union resolutions, were those adopted at a meeting held at 
                        Greencastle
                    , Indiana (
                        Putnam County
                    ) in which such whigs as R. N. Allen, A. Johnson, Higgins Lane and A. D. Hamrich united
                    with such democrats as D. E. Eckles, Judge Duckworth, J. F. Farley and W. Q. Allen, in supporting
                    the compromise measure. The resolutions are so expressive of union sentiment of the day that they
                    are copied verbatim as follows: 
                        
                     Resolved, That it was with pain we witnessed the fearful agitations through
                            which we have just passed. For ten months the national legislature was almost suspended, the
                            wheels of government became nearly motionless, crimination and recrimination was indulged in
                            by fanatics of the north and hurled back by disunionists of the south goading each other on
                            to madness, until the cry of disunion and treason disgraced the halls of the capitol, and
                            the wisest, the best and the boldest of our patriots were made to fear for the safety of the
                            union. In these agitations we have taken part with neither the abolitionists of the north or
                            the disunionists of the south, but steadily regarding the perpetuation of our unparalleled
                            system of government and looking to the rights of man and the protection due every section
                            of the union in the full enjoyment of every guaranty of the constitution of the 
                                United States
                             as the surest and safest mode of securing to ourselves and our posterity, the
                            blessing of civil and religious liberty, and as patriots we hail with just pride and
                            rejoicing the system of compromise measures passed at the late session of congress and
                            approved by the president of the 
                                United States
                            , and we declare our intention to the utmost, to maintain the same
                            "whole and entire" and do not, and will not, countenance the bad faith
                            manifesting itself in various parts of the northern states to maintain only so much of the
                            system of compromise measures as suits the prejudices of the north only, and war against
                            that portion intended as a protection to the south against negro stealing citizens of the
                            north.
                        
                        
                     Resolved, That we regard all sectional agitation as prejudicial to our
                            interest and dangerous to the perpetuation of our free institutions and we therefore appeal
                            to the north as well as to the south to respect the prejudices and feelings of each and
                            cultivate feelings of mutual forbearance and respect for the interests and rights of all,
                            and to abandon now and forever all agitation and interference by the citizens of one state
                            with the institutions of another and hush the cry of disunion and the thought of treason
                            from the halls of congress.
                        
                     Lastly Resolved, That we have not permitted nor countenanced the abduction
                            of slaves from slave states and will not countenance negro stealing any sooner than horse
                                stealing8
                  
                    
                
            An editorial appeared in the Sentinel about this time written by W. J. Brown, then
                    a member of congress and who had voted for the "peace bill" as he called it. The
                    union sentiment is shown in the following quotation from his paper:9
                    
                        The passage of this measure at the late session of congress by the aid of northern votes and
                            its approval by a president from the north, contradicts the assertion so often made by the
                            southern statesman that an attack is contemplated in the free states upon their peculiar
                            institutions. It affords another evidence which ought to be peculiarly gratifying to all.
                            That is the fidelity and attachment of the northern people to the constitution under which
                            they live. Nothing is more difficult than to enforce a law which violates public opinion.
                            That all the prejudices of the north are against slavery and in favor of universal freedom
                            is not to be denied. Here is a law, the effect of which is to close our doors against the
                            fugitive slaves, enforced without difficulty. Its operation so far has been most efficient.
                            Under its provisions the long secreted fugitive is returned to his owner and the free man
                            protected from the iron grasp of the man stealer. The south should know that nothing but the
                            most ardent desire to sustain the letter and spirit of the constitution could have induced
                            the north to acquiesce in this measure. The practical operations of the bill referred to
                            give ample proof that our people are ready to sacrifice everything upon the altar of our
                            constitutional obligations. There are, it is true, among us men who would disregard the law
                            and the constitution, and for an excuse seek some "higher law." By that
                            "higher law" we are all bound. It was dictated by a wisdom above the
                            wisdom of man. But we contend that in the constitution there is nothing that does not
                            comport with the precepts of the Bible. The patriots that framed it, through the ministers
                            of God, invoked the aid of Heaven. It is a most perfect instrument and we can not break a
                            part of it without destroying the whole. So long as it stands the country will prosper. When
                            it is destroyed, the nation is gone.
                    
                
            
               
                  8
                        Indiana State Sentinel, Oct 12, 1850.
               
                  9
                        Ibid, 8.
            
            
            A little later we find Mr. Brown still advocating harmony, for he says: 
                        Let meetings be held, and societies be organized. Let all good men sustain the president and
                            his cabinet in their effort to breast the storm of fanaticism. When breakers are lashing
                            against the vessel, let us not inquire, what are the politics of the pilot, but let the
                            inquiry be, does he manage the helm with skill and judgment? Let us not quarrel about the
                            seats at the feast when the house is in flames. We have conquered all other nations that we
                            have battled with. Let us now conquer ourselves. Adhere to the compromise of the
                            constitution. Preserve the union and a glorious destiny awaits us as a nation. The honest
                            people must act and act effectively.10
                  
                    
                
            From the northern part of the state, union sentiment is expressed in one of the 
                        Logansport
                     papers. Commenting upon the opposition to the slave law it says: 
                        The newspapers of the abolition stripe have endorsed resolutions and the cry now is
                            "Let slip the dogs of war." This is all wrong–wrong from
                            beginning to end and an hour of cooler reflection will tell these extremists so. If it is a
                            bill of evils and outrages, what is the remedy? Certainly not forcible resistance. Our
                            object is not a defense of the fugitive slave law, for in many of its provisions it is
                            unjust. But, we are utterly opposed to anything that looks at a violation of law.11
                  
                    
                
            From a 
                        Terre Haute
                     paper the following tenor is expressed: 
                        It is evident now, that the sober second thoughts of the people will sustain the law, as well
                            as those who were instrumental in its passage. The law itself probably does no more than was
                            designed by the act of 1793 and which has been so long in force without incurring such
                            strong attempts at repudiation, both designing and only intending to provide the means for
                            securing the rights of a master to his fugitive slave.
                        But there is another point of view in which this law is entitled to the respect of the
                            community, brought forth with a view to the settlement of exciting difficulties long
                            prevailing in our country. Difficulties which seemed to threaten, not only the harmony of
                            the people, but the perpetuity of the union. Something must be conceded to the necessities
                            of the times. It was thought by many better to have peace and save the union. It is possible
                            that some of the provisions of the fugitive slave law may seem very stringent. But something
                            had to be yielded, as well as something obtained.12
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  10
                        Indiana State Sentinel, Nov. 12, 1850.
               
                  11
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Pharos, Nov. 6, 1850.
               
                  12
                        
                            Wabash
                        
                        Courier, Nov. 16, 1850.
            
            
            From southern Indiana came this expression from a union Whig paper: 
                        We believe that the agitation of these questions at this time before their wisdom is fairly
                            tested, can result in nothing but evil, and that continually. And so believing, we cannot
                            regard it as the part of wisdom or patriotism to be continually agitating the public mind in
                            regard to them.
                        The slave law may be radically wrong in principle, and justly obnoxious to public
                            reprehension, and we do not say it is not, but so long as it has a place on the statute
                            book, so long as it is the law of the land. H should be recognized as of binding force by
                            all good citizens, and to counsel resistance to its operations, or incite to individual and
                            organized opposition is hurtful in the extreme, tending only to anarchy and revolution.13
                  
                    
                
            One of the leading 
                        Indianapolis
                     papers commented thus: 
                        We desire that the agitation of the question should cease–that the law should be
                            given a fair trial and if it only secures the object of the constitution without unjust
                            requirements at the hands of the people of the free states, then let it remain as it is. But
                            we tell those who are now so severe in their denunciations of its opponents that there will
                            be agitation so long as they continue their course.14
                  
                    
                
            From these reports from various parts of the state it is seen that both the leading political parties
                    desired the compromise to be a final one, and the leaders as well as the papers were preaching the
                        finality doctrine. They wanted to get rid of the vexations question by saying
                    as little about it as possible. To the majority of people in Indiana this seemed reasonable. As time
                    went on such sentiment seemed to be gaining everywhere. The majority of the papers were expressing
                    the hope that this would settle the whole trouble.
            From nearly every portion of the state protests were heard against the law, from a few democratic and
                    whig newspapers. When the law was passed, some of these papers flew into a passion and said things
                    that were purely abolitionist and rebellious, but when the sober second thought came most of them
                    refrained from their former bitterness, though they yet opposed the law. In the meantime they would
                    not impede or oppose its execution openly, but would do what they could 
                  
                     13
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Tribune, April 19, 1851.
                  
                     14
                            Indiana State Journal, May 10, 1851.
               
                     to draw its fangs by getting it amended, or if possible
                    repealed. As time passed their statements gradually became more moderate.
            It will be well at this point to see what the feeling was over the state, in opposition to the law as
                    expressed by some of the papers.
            A paper at 
                        Richmond
                    , Indiana paid its respects to the law in the following language: 
                        The claimant or agent is to be prima faois evidence of the truth of his
                            claim and the interested party on the other side is not to be heard. What mockery of
                            justice! of common sense! of law! Why not issue a license to kidnappers, authorizing them to
                            enter any of the free states and take into slavery any man with a colored skin! Such a
                            course would create a revenue to the government, but under this bill a monopoly is offered
                            to desperadoes who are infamous enough to engage in the business.15
                  
                    
                
            Later the same paper changed its tone somewhat, but was still opposed to the law. On November 20,
                    1850, it said: 
                        We are not apologist or defender of the fugitive law. Had we been a member of congress, we
                            would have voted against it, and as a private citizen we shall do what we can to secure its
                            repeal.
                    
                
            Again, on December 3, 1850, it said: 
                        We are opposed to the law because we doubt the constitutionality of some of its
                            provisions–because it offers a bribe to the officers to convict the
                            accused–because it permits exparte testimony to be given against the alleged
                            fugitive–for these and other reasons it should be repealed.
                    
                
            From 
                        Franklin
                    , Indiana, we hear denunciation proclaimed in the following language: 
                        We positively object to the third section of this bill. And we should like to know whether
                            its supporters consider negroes human beings or not. If they are human beings at all, it is
                            an infamous outrage to provide for the captivity of any now free merely upon the affidavit
                            of any scoundrel that may swear the negro is his.16
                  
                    
                
            Commenting on what the Democrat said an 
                        Indianapolis
                     paper declared: 
                        The Democrat is right–there are features in this bill which
                            carry 
                        
                           15 The Palladium, Sept. 11, 1850.
                        
                           16
                                    
                                        Franklin
                                    
                                    Democrat, Sept 16, 1850.
                     
                             us back to the days of barbarism, when might made
                            right, and which stamp it as a disgrace to the age. While we would in no possible manner,
                            encourage the slave to abscond from his master, and while we would interpose no obstacle to
                            that owner's recapturing the fugitive and carrying him back to his home, we deny
                            the right of these deputy nigger catchers to summon a whole community and put them in chase
                            of the unfortunate slave.
                        There was no necessity for the passage of such a law, so insulting to the common sense and
                            humanity of the north, and our surprise is that any man, in whose veins courses the blood of
                            a freeman, could be found to vote for it. The law of 1793 was abundantly sufficient for the
                            recapture of fugitives, and there was at least some show of humanity about it.17
                  
                    
                
            The most extreme view of the law is expressed through the columns of another 
                        Indianapolis
                     paper of that day. The writer expresses himself in the following heated language:
                        
                        This act presents a new feature in our institutions and sets in a new light the glory of this
                            land of liberty. A more infamous enactment can nowhere be found among the statutes of any
                            civilized people under Heaven. The old Spanish Catholics would feel themselves slandered
                            under a charge of such an act, and had such a law been promulgated by any of the execrated
                            tyrants of Europe, the press and the pulpit would loudly proclaim its abominations and
                            political orators would have denounced' it to deserved infamy.
                        I would, under these circumstances, advise county and township meetings, speeches and
                            resolutions expressive of our abhorrence and detestation of the act, our fixed determination
                            to resist its requirements –our attachment to the union and to the Ordinance of
                            1787 and our unmitigated hostility to our senators and representatives who voted for the
                            bill of abominations, or dodged and screen their guilty heads from the wrath of an injured
                                constituency.18
                  
                    
                
            From the northern part of the state a 
                        Lafayette
                     paper took a slap at the law in this wise: 
                        There has never been placed upon our statute books a more atrocious act, and one more
                            insulting to freedom than the slave catching law. This law forces the community to become
                            the unwilling tools of. kidnappers and slave catchers in their abhorrent work. Agitation has
                            been commenced from all parts of the free state, from every man who values personal freedom,
                            the demand is for repeal. Public sentiment will sweep over the land like a whirlwind,
                            demanding its expurgation from our national statute book and woe be to him who attempts to
                            breast the righteous storm. Public sentiment may sleep a long while under insidious 
                        
                           17
                                    Indiana Statesman, Sept. 25, 1850.
                        
                           18 Indiana True Democrat, Oct 18,
                                1850.
                     
                             and covert attacks upon freedom, but an open and bold
                            attack, like the one we are considering, will arouse it to vehement action.19
                  
                    
                
            A newspaper in southern Indiana expressed its disgust with the law, by saying: 
                        We don't, can't like it. It is repugnant to all the feelings of a man
                            living in a free state. We know that the constitution provides and imperiously demands that
                            a fugitive "shall be delivered upon claim of the party to whom such service or
                            labor may be due." We know also that this fugitive slave law is very similar to the
                            law of 1793, the great difference between them being in the new federal offices created
                            under it and the new duty imposed upon the marshals and deputy marshals thronghout the free
                            states, thus making the federal government a vast slave catching machine instead of leaving
                            the enforcement of the law, as heretofore, to the state officers. We don't like the
                            law–probably never shall! We shall not, however, do anything by word or deed to
                            nullify the law or prevent its being carried into force in Indiana. Like slavery, it is a
                            blot upon our institutions and should be treated as we usually treat slavery, viz., have
                            nothing to do with it.20
                  
                    
                
            There was a vital minority of free soilers and abolitionists who continually kept up an agitation,
                    who would not down and who, as Garrison had formerly expressed it, "would be
                    heard" in spite of all that might be said regarding finality. Slavery to
                    them was odious. It was the blackest of sin. If a thing was wrong, it could not be made right by
                    compromise. They saw no good in any compromise measure. They felt that the fugitive slave law made
                    the free states the subservient underlings to the southern slave masters and their agents in
                    perpetuating an institution they hated. The enactment of the new fugitive law added fuel to their
                    fire. They were particularly vitriolic in their denunciations of the law and they gained many
                    adherents to their cause at this time in the state, but the greater number of adherents were gained
                    later, when the provisions of the law began to be enforced.
            What did they have to say about the law and what vulnerable points did they find in it to attack? A
                    few of their resolutions adopted at the time are now very interesting.
            At Neal's creek in 
                        Jefferson county
                    , Indiana, on the evening of November 15, 1850, a group of people of all political 
                  
                     19
                            
                                Lafayette
                            
                            Courier, Oct. 17, 1850.
                  
                     20
                            
                                Madison
                            
                            Weekly Courier, Oct. 30, 1850.
               
                     faiths of that community met, under the presidency of Samuel
                    Tibbets, to express their ill will against the new slave law. After electing a secretary, the
                    following resolutions were passed: 
                        
                     Resolved, That we deem it not only perfectly proper, but important, that we
                            meet together and send forth our united voices in condemnation of this flagrant outrage upon
                            the rights of the citizens and people of these 
                                United States
                            .
                        
                     Resolved, That we look upon this law as one of the most tyrannical and
                            unjust enactments that ever disgraced the annals of any country, pagan or christian, and
                            that we look upon the men who were instrumental in foisting it upon us as enemies of their
                            race and utterly unworthy the confidence of a free people.
                        
                     Resolved, That any law that deprives any human being of life, liberty, or
                            property, without the right of trial by jury, and the benefit of the writ of habeas corpus, is unconstitutional, unjust, oppressive and as such ought to be
                            disregarded, choosing as Daniel of old said, to obey God rather than man.
                        
                     Resolved, That we will not assist the bloodhounds of slavery to capture any
                            of the oppressed and downtrodden sons and daughters of Africa, whom they claim as their
                            property, and that we will "feed the hungry, clothe the naked, and shelter the
                            stranger" as God commands, to the best of our abilities.
                        
                     Resolved, That we look upon the man who accepts office under such a law, as
                            a monster in human shape, an unprincipled wretch and wholly unworthy the countenance of a
                            free people.21
                  
                    
                
            Extracts from resolutions adopted by meetings in the eastern part of the state show the abolition
                    tenor in its best style. At 
                        Washington
                    , Indiana, the following was adopted: 
                        
                     Resolved, That it is the right and duty of every slave to seek to escape
                            from slavery.
                        
                     Resolved, That we hereby pledge ourselves before God and man to seek to
                            prevent the execution of the recent fugitive slave law, which makes escape from slavery, and
                            giving aid and comfort to those who are trying to escape, punishable as felony, by fines and
                            imprisonment.
                    
                
            At a meeting at 
                        Alquina
                    , Indiana, the following was voted: 
                        
                     Resolved, That we will not assist (if called upon) in capturing or securing
                            a fugitive slave under this act, though the penalty for refusing deprive us of all our
                            possessions, and incarcerate us between dungeon
                        
                     Resolved, That cruel and ferocious despotism manifested by the pampered
                            slaveholders towards the poor and defenseless slave, is only 
                        
                           21
                                    
                                        Madison
                                    
                                    Courier, Dec. 4, 1850.
                     
                             equalled in enormity and meanness by the truckling and
                            dog-like servility of the northern doughface.22
                  
                    
                
            At 
                        Dublin
                    , Indiana, resolutions of like kind were adopted, declaring that every slave had the
                    inalienable right to freedom from slavery and that it was the intentions of those meeting to use
                    every means to get the law repealed and to prevent, so far as possible, its enforcement.
            The attitude of the abolitionist convention held at 
                        Centerville
                    , Indiana, under the leadership of George W. Julian and C. F. Wright probably summarizes
                    the whole abolition opposition in the most complete language possible. It might be said that a great
                    many whigs in eastern Indiana were acting with the abolitionists at that time. The following
                    resolutions were agreed upon: 
                        
                     Resolved, That the bloodhound fugitive slave bill recently enacted by
                            congress outrages humanity, violates the plainest provisions of the constitution of the 
                                United States
                             and is without a parallel in the legislation of any cvilized people. It denies
                            the writ of habeas corpus, it repudiates the trial by jury, it binds the
                            officials created by it to enslave our citizens, it punishes by heavy fines and by
                            imprisonment, the exercise of the plainest duties of morality and religion, it creates a
                            whole army of officers, whose sole business is the hired service of slaveholders, it makes
                            the people of the north slavecatchers and at the same time brings to the aid of the southern
                            man-hunter the military power of non-slave holding states, it barters the liberty of a
                            freeman for the oath of any wretch who may swear that he is a slave. It does all this,
                            whilst our citizens are thrown into southern prisons without cause, and sold into perpetual
                            bondage for their jail fees in violation of the clearest principles of the federal
                            constitution.
                        
                     Resolved, Therefore, that whilst we desire no collision with the law in
                            question, and do not intend rashly or violently to oppose the public authorities, and whilst
                            we mean by all reasonable endeavor to labor for its repeal, we hereby declare our purpose in
                            the meantime, to make it powerless in the country by our absolute refusal to obey its
                            inhuman and diabolical provisions.23
                  
                    
                
            From the various newspapers and the resolutions adopted in the different meetings, a few points
                    around which opposition hinged in regard to the law are discovered. In the first place the law
                    denied the right to a trial by jury. This naturally was repugnant to any Hoosier who had the least
                    bit of AngloSaxon 
                  
                     22
                            Indiana State Sentinel, Nov. 19, 1850.
                  
                     23
                            Indiana State Sentinel, Oct 12, 1850.
               
                     principles in his character. To him this law treated the slave
                    worse than pagan 
                        Rome
                     treated hers, for the old Roman law gave the slave the benefit of the doubt, but here
                    was a law on the American statute books in the nineteenth century which denied to the slave a means
                    of any defense and denied to him the right to testify in his own behalf. It opposed the seventh
                    amendment of the constitution which guaranteed the right of trial by jury "when the value
                    in controversy shall exceed twenty dollars." The slave master denied that this amendment
                    had been violated by saying that the constitution referred to controversies between persons and a
                    slave was not a person but property and had no rights before the courts of law.
            Another fundamental principle was denied when the slave had no recourse from false or long continued
                    imprisonment by appealing for a writ of habeas corpus. This law of English origin
                    had always been considered by Americans as the very bulwark of their liberty, but to the fugitive
                    from service this law was of no avail.
            Opponents said that the law offered a direct bribe to the commissioner for every decision in favor of
                    the claimant. For every such decision he was to receive ten dollars, and only half as much if he
                    discharged the accused. This made it imperative for him to decide in favor of the agent, whenever
                    possible, in order to increase his financial income.
            The people were to be taxed for the return of every fugitive slave, for if there seemed to be a
                    likelihood of a rescue the commissioner could empower the marshal to appoint one or more assistants
                    as an armed guard to aid him in returning the slave to the state from which he fled. The expense for
                    such an expedition was to be paid out of the federal treasury. Each deputy so serving was to receive
                    at least two dollars per day, while engaged in remanding the slave. Where there were thirty or forty
                    men so engaged, it made the expense very heavy on the people and to this and its purpose they
                    objected.
            The law was claimed to be unconstitutional because it was an ex post facto law, as
                    applied to slaves who had escaped from slavery before its passage, and all ex post
                        facto laws are forbidden by the constitution itself. Many of the fugitives who had escaped
                    from bondage before 1850 had lived in the state  many years, had
                    married, had homes and had settled down to a quiet, industrious life in the community to which they
                    had come. They were honest and held in high regard by the white people in their respective
                    neighborhoods. If these fugitives were ever discovered by the man-hunters of the southern masters
                    they could be seized, torn from their homes and their families and returned to bondage. Such action
                    would be inhuman to the last degree and would not be tolerated by any self-respecting individual or
                    community.
            One of the worst features of the law was the one commanding all good citizens to assist the slave
                    catcher in capturing his prey. People felt that a man held to bondage for no crime other than the
                    color of his skin and the accident of his birth, had a right to flee for freedom, and their desire
                    was to aid them in doing so; but the law imperiously demanded that they not aid the person seeking
                    liberty, but regardless of sympathy and conscience in the matter to aid him who pursued the
                    fugitive. It was a question of obeying the laws of the country or the higher law of conscience. Many
                    refused the former and obeyed the latter. How could the law of the land be enforced when opposed by
                    so large a portion of the people in the midst of whom it was expected to operate? It could not
                    easily do so, for the moral consciousness of an indignant people rose above the law of the land and
                    finally doomed it to a final overthrow and destruction.
            The act had scarcely become the law of the land when some parts of Indiana began to be overrun by
                    man-hunters. These men were not usually the owners of the alleged fugitives, but their agents, often
                    coarse, brutal men whose bitter instincts had been smothered by years of slave driving. The law
                    empowered these men to capture and bring to trial any negro they might suspect of being a runaway,
                    to secure the aid of officers and to force bystanders, under penalty, to assist them, if necessary.
                    The majority of people in Indiana were wanting peace and things were bidding fair to its attainment
                    until certain slave owners and their agents began to come into the state to claim their runaways.
                    These cases, of course, had to be tried in the newly created commissioner's courts. When
                    cases began to be tried secretly and commitments made, when some, who had been free for a number of
                    years were  being torn from their homes, families and friends by
                    these slave catchers, and began to be arrested and tried, the murmurs which were but faintly heard
                    before, now broke out in tones of rebellion against the iniquitous law. Men who had previously been
                    strongly in favor of the law now began to align themselves against its execution. The reality of
                    slavery had never been brought so forcibly to their attention before. Now the slave master was
                    coming into their home communities, where reigned peace and happiness, and there arresting and
                    seizing fugitives and carrying them before the courts to be consigned without jury trial to former
                    slave relationship. Such spectacles drove people to revolt against this law and every new case tried
                    and the commitment following only added fuel to the passionate flame.
            These things occurred in Indiana during the decade before the Civil war. Many cases for commitment
                    and rendition of fugitives were tried, how many will never be known. Only the most important were
                    reported by the papers during the ten year period. Most of them were very much alike,–if,
                    identity were proven, a certificate must be issued for return. The next chapter will treat of some
                    of the cases and to this we now turn.
            OPERATION OF THE FUGITIVE SLAVE LAW IN Indiana
            I. THE FREEMAN CASE
            
            By far the most exciting case under the fugitive slave law of 1850, in the state of Indiana, was that
                    of John Freeman, which was begun on Tuesday, June 21, 1853, in the court of Squire Sullivan,
                    commissioner of the 
                        United States
                     for Indiana, in the city of 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Freeman was a free negro who had come to 
                        Indianapolis
                     in 1844, from the state of 
                        Georgia
                    . He had been a free man for a number of years previous to his coming to the Indiana
                    capital. He brought with him about $600 which he deposited in one of the banks upon his
                    arrival. A little later, he invested a part of his money in real estate. He was an industrious man,
                    being a painter, whitewasher and a man who could do general labor  of all kinds. He soon won for himself a place in the confidence of every one who knew him, was
                    universally esteemed and highly respected. He married a very sprightly girl then living in the
                    family of Rev. Henry Ward Beecher, pastor of the Second Presbyterian church. He rapidly accumulated
                    property which at the time of his trial was probably worth $6,000. He was trustworthy in
                    every word and deed. He became a member of the colored Baptist church and was very active in all
                    church affairs. He had a family of three little children when the Rev. Mr. Ellington put in his plea
                    that Freeman was his absconded slave.
            Pleasant Ellington, the prosecutor in the case, was a large slave holder and by profession,
                    presumably, a Methodist preacher. He had formerly lived in 
                        Kentucky
                    , but at the time of the trial was a resident of 
                  St.
                            Louis, Missouri
               , to which
                    place he had removed and where he possessed many slaves. His affidavit, filed before Commissioner
                    Sullivan, claimed Freeman as his slave and at the time of its being filed did not state when the
                    slave had escaped, but later fixed the date in March, 1836. Rev. Ellington was represented in the
                    case by L. D. Walpole and J. A. Liston, Freeman by John L. Ketcham, John Coburn and Lucius Barbour.
                    Being represented by such legal talent, the battle was to be fought hard on both sides.
                    Freeman's fight was to establish that he had been and was a freeman, while Ellington must
                    prove him to be his slave. Ellington from past experience and from the standpoint of the law had the
                    advantage of the battle. It was not the first fight of this kind that Ellington had had. In the
                    state of 
                        Missouri
                    , he had the reputation of being one of the shrewdest and most successful suitors at
                    law. The law presumed Freeman guilty to begin with and had it not been for the moral backing of the
                    community, he probably would have been torn from his family and carried south to be sold again into
                    slavery. But popular sentiment was with him and on this account he finally triumphed.
            The arrest of Freeman was made by Deputy Marshal J. H. Stopp, who, in giving evidence later regarding
                    the arrest of Freeman, said that Ellington came to the city on the day of the arrest and stopped at
                    the house of a Mr. Githens, that there he first saw him and from there they went to Commissioner  Sullivan's office, where Ellington made his affidavit.
                    When the affidavit was filed, he went to Freeman's house and induced him to go to the
                    commissioner's office.24 He induced Freeman to go to the
                    commissioner's office by reporting to him that his presence was required before the justice
                    of the peace to give testimony in a case where another man was a party. Freeman not suspecting
                    anything unusual, accompanied the officer to the office of Squire Sullivan, the U. S.
                    commissioner/.Stopping for a moment at the office of Mr. Ketcham, which was adjoining the
                    commissioner's office, he was apprehended and hurried before Commissioner Sullivan. Great
                    reluctance was shown in giving Freeman permission to consult a lawyer. He finally secured the
                    services of Mr. Ketcham, who wished a private consultation for a few moments with his client, which
                    was granted. Very shortly the claimant and his posse became clamorous at the door. When the door was
                    opened by Mr. Ketcham, Officer Stopp and his assistants seized Freeman with a ferocity that would
                    have done honor to tigers and hurried him down stairs to the courthouse. He was led between two
                    officers and followed by Ellington and his attendants. Ketcham soon followed and when he arrived, he
                    found Ellington insolently engaged in examining Freeman's jaw and teeth to identify him.
                    This action aroused Freeman's counsel, who immediately reminded the court and claimant that
                    his client was a man, not a horse, and that he expected him to be treated as such.25 The falsehood used and deception practiced, in the arrest of Freeman spread like wild fire
                    among his friends. Commissioner Sullivan, at first, seemed inclined to act too hastily, but the
                    public began to assemble and it was evident that a fair trial must be given. The people felt that
                    Freeman had a clear record as a free man and they meant to see that justice was given him in the
                    courts as to any other citizen of the community. The case was adjourned from time to time to give
                    the counsel on both sides a chance to make full examination and this had the tendency to increase
                    the excitement that always attended such a case.
            Ellington had brought three men with him to prove the identity of his slave. He claimed Freeman was
                    his slave Sam 
                  
                     24
                            The Locomotive, May 13, '54.
                  
                     25
                            The True Blue Republican, July 6, 1853.
               
                     who had fled from him, while living in 
                        Kentucky
                    , some 17 or 18 years before. With these 
                        Kentucky
                     witnesses, Ellington felt quite confident of his ability in taking Freeman back with
                    him. Freeman's counsel were advised that Ellington's witnesses were at hand and
                    that Freeman was to be taken into their presence to be identified. Ellington was not satisfied with
                    just the external appearance of Freeman, so he demanded a more thorough examination. On Tuesday
                    Deputy Marshal Stopp took Freeman from jail to another room to be examined. When they were once in
                    the room Mr. Liston, Ellington's attorney, very authoritatively demanded of Freeman to pull
                    up his breeches that they might examine his legs for scars. Freeman's counsel directed him
                    not to do it. Liston insisted–they opposed. At the insistence of Liston the deputy
                    marshal very peremptorily ordered Freeman to expose his limb. His counsel told him not to do it, and
                    then said they would not use force to prevent it, nor would Freeman resist if they chose to do so,
                    but that he himself would not voluntarily take off his clothes and if they did it, it would be at
                    their peril. The deputy marshal declined to do this, feeling he had no such authority.26
            
            Mr. Liston ordered Freeman back to jail and telegraphed the marshal, Mr. Robinson, who was out of the
                    city, to see if an examination was possible under him. He arrived in the afternoon and closeted
                    himself with Mr. Liston. Mr. Ketcham finally secured an interview with him and asked the right of
                    the counsel to be present at the examination. The marshal said they could be present if they did not
                    interfere with the examination, if they would not direct their client to refuse to strip himself,
                    otherwise they could not. They would not accede. The counsel for the defense handed the marshal a
                    written protest which went unheeded. The examination took place. Against his will and in the absence
                    of his counsel Freeman was required to strip. They examined his legs, back and other portions of his
                    person for marks by which to recognize him. Having seen all marks on Freeman's body
                    Ellington's witnesses were, of course, ready to swear to them in court and establish the
                    fact that Freeman was the veritable Sam, Ellington's old 
                        Kentucky
                     slave. Freeman had but one 
                  
                     26
                            Indiana Democrat, Aug. 5, 1853.
               
                     scar on his body and that was found on the left leg. It was
                    about an inch and a half in diameter produced by a cut. By this mark and his appearance they were
                    ready to perjure themselves and to take a free man into bondage.
            The marshal who conducted this examination was John L. Robinson of 
                        Rushville
                    , Indiana. He had been a man of some importance in the Democratic party of his state,
                    had been elected to congress three times from the third district, had voted against the fugitive
                    slave bill and now was serving as marshal by appointment from President Pierce. His conduct in
                    aiding Ellington to secure evidence was greatly condemned by the press from all parts of the state.
                    The wide-spread notoriety he received from this act he could never shake from his political toga. He
                    was taunted as the crooked mileage man (because he had charged for 1,080 miles of mileage from 
                        Rushville
                     to 
                        Washington
                     while congressman) and Ellington's watch dog. Other similar odious and
                    distasteful phrases were hurled at him all the time and everywhere.
            A Shelbyville correspondent said that the conduct of the crooked mileage man and Ellington's
                    humane counsel was what he condemned and not the fugitive law. He defied his friend to cite him to
                    any part of the fugitive law that authorized the 
                        United States
                     marshal, or any other man to strip a fugitive of every vestige of clothing, and that
                    too against his consent and without the presence of his attorneys. And he further defied anyone to
                    cite any authority whatever even in the blue laws of 
                        Connecticut
                     that authorized an ex parte examination of witnesses, even in taking
                    depositions without, at least, notifying the opposite party and giving him an opportunity to be
                    present, either in person or by proxy.27
            
            A Madison paper scored Ellington and his witnesses for putting Freeman at par with beasts in regard
                    to marks of identification other than the features and countenance, and further said: 
                        And what is as strange as the conduct of those men, is the fact that John L. Robinson, the
                            marshal, a man who ought to have some little respect for his state, even if he has none for
                            himself, would permit such proceedings as have never been heard of elsewhere than perhaps in
                            the quarters of the detested men whose ostensible occupation is to buy and 
                        
                           27
                                    The True Blue Republican, Aug. 31, 1853.
                     
                             sell human flesh. Ellington and his men may have a
                            motive, but none can be seen for Robinson, unless it be a natural hate of justice or a
                            penurious desire to obtain the five dollars that he will lose if Freeman is not returned to
                                slavery.28
                  
                    
                
            Commenting on Robinson's act the Democrat said: 
                        Reader, what think you of such proceedings? Could you cenceive that such an outrage could be
                            committed under the direction of a civil officer in the "high noon of the
                            nineteenth century" and in a country boasting of its civilization, Christianity and
                            refinement? Is there a citizen of 
                                Indianapolis
                            –is there a citizen of the country, whose blood does not boil at the
                            perpetration of such indignities? Had such a scene transpired in 
                                Austria
                            , what curses and imprecations we should heap upon the infamous Haynau guilty of
                            such an act! By the Haynau Marshal who perpetrates such a deed in the highly intelligent,
                            civilized, refinéd and christian city of 
                                Indianapolis
                            , shall we not all sing peons of glory to him? Shall not christians assemble in
                            their respective churches and render devout thanks to Almighty God that Marshal John L.
                            Robinson, by stripping the clothing off a respectable citizen of 
                                Indianapolis
                             in his custody, or causing it to be done, and exposing his nakedness, has saved
                            the union?
                        But has the marshal the least authority for such a disgraceful proceeding? Infamous as is the
                            fugitive slave law, does it require any such duty of him? Does he not perform his whole duty
                            under that law, when he keeps securely the alleged fugitive? Does that law require him to
                            shut from his heart all sympathy for freedom, and to offer every possible facility for
                            kidnapping? Throughout this whole case so far, the marshal has seemed to regard himself as
                            the special agent of the claimant, and has, apparently, taken great pleasure in furnishing
                            him every possible facility to make out his case, and has thrown almost every conceivable
                            obstacle in the way of the defense.29
                  
                    
                
            In a meeting of independent democrats in 
                        Cass county
                     it was resolved that John L. Robinson, marshal of the state of Indiana, be presented by
                    the chairman of this meeting with a black leather collar marked: "The Ellington watch dog,
                    to be let at $3 per day."30
            
            Even the conservative democratic papers were forced to acknowledge the effects upon the public. A
                    paper at 
                        Newcastle
                     said relative to identifying the negro that: 
                        Such occurrences as these must necessarily add much strength to the free soil party. They are
                            strong weapons and will not be suffered 
                        
                           28
                                    
                                        Madison
                                    
                                    Banner, Aug. 4, 1853.
                        
                           29
                                    Indiana Democrat, Aug. 5, '53.
                        
                           30
                                    
                                        Logansport
                                    
                                    Journal, Sept. 10, '53.
                     
                             to rust in their hands. The advocates of finality of the fugitive slave law, will lose much ground in consequence of the
                            proceedings in the Freeman case. We do not believe that these unwarrantable proceedings
                            should be charged against the law itself, but it will be done, and with great effect, too,
                            in spite of all defense or apology.31
                  
                    
                
            In this way was the ire of the peace-loving, freedom-seeking citizenship of Indiana aroused to
                    antagonism.
            In the meantime, the counsel for Freeman had procured a writ of habeas corpus and
                    the case was transferred to the court of Stephen Major, judge of the 
                        Marion county
                     circuit. Freeman pleaded that he was a free man and the proof of this fact rested upon
                    various papers from guardians appointed by-various courts in 
                        Virginia
                     and 
                        Georgia
                     and from court records under their seal, dated as far back as 1831.
            The case was resumed at nine o'clock the next morning, Friday, before an immense and deeply
                    interested crowd of spectators. Mr. Liston for Ellington, said they were not ready to reply to the
                    pleas of Freeman and wished until Monday or Tuesday. This, the court refused to grant and gave the
                    claimant until the next day to make reply.
            When the court reconvened, Judge Major decided that he had no jurisdiction in the case and
                    recommended that Freeman be put in the custody of the 
                        United States
                     marshal; who placed him in jail to await the decision of Commissioner Sullivan. After
                    the return of the fugitive from the circuit court, at the orders of Judge Major, the 
                        United States
                     commissioner seemed much more inclined to grant a fair trial. He had probably taken
                    into account the drift of popular opinion in the case, and when his court reconvened he granted a
                    period of nine weeks in which to gather evidence. This grant favored Freeman, since it would give
                    him an opportunity to get witnesses to prove the truth of his statements regarding his freedom. It
                    would make against the claimant, since his ability to secure Freeman as his slave depended on quick
                    action on the part of the commissioner in deciding the case.
            Meanwhile, the counsel for Freeman had asked bail for their client for the nine weeks he would
                    otherwise have to remain in jail. A note was drawn payable in sixty days to the State bank of
                    Indiana or $1,600 and was signed by one 
                  
                     31
                            
                                Newcastle
                            
                            Democratic Banner, Aug. 11, 53.
               
                     hundred citizens of different parties, among whom were men of
                    the first standing in the community, such as Judge Blackford, Judge Wick, W. B. Palmer, and Calvin
                    Fletcher. Specie to the amount of the note was raised and brought into court as security to
                    Ellington against damages. In addition a bond in the sum of $4,000 was also signed by a
                    number of citizens owning property to the amount of more than half million of dollars to indemnify
                    him. Freeman's counsel offered still further to enter into a recognizance to any amount the
                    claimant might name for the appearance of Freeman on the trial.
            Freeman's counsel contended that this motion for bail was founded on the organic law of the
                    northwest territory, which declared that "all persons shall be
                    bailable"–by the organic laws Freeman is a man and included in the enactment.
                    The law applies to all persons–to Freeman as well as to any other. Bail could not be
                    denied in any case, except for capital offense and Freeman had committed no crime. Freeman should be
                    admitted to bail to be permitted to go where he formerly lived to obtain testimony and prove his
                        identity.32
            
            Walpole, for the claimant, said he came to protest against bailing a fugitive and called the
                    attention of the court to a further provision of the ordinance of the northwest territory referred
                    to by Freeman's counsel. "Fugitives from services or labor escaping from any of
                    the states of the 
                        United States
                     into any of the territories thereof shall be delivered up to the claimant on proper
                    proof." He said further that Commissioner Sullivan's power was not judicial, but
                    ministerial–that there was no authority for admitting Freeman to bail and that the
                    proffered bond was of no legal value.
            After hearing this argument Commissioner Sullivan decided that bail was not permissible under the
                    circumstances and ordered Freeman remanded to jail to remain for the intervening nine weeks.
            Because he feared that a rescue might take place, the marshal was thinking seriously of removing
                    Freeman to the jail at 
                        Madison
                     on the Ohio river for safe-keeping. To prevent this removal from
                    his family and friends, Freeman was compelled to pay $3 per day for a guard to watch over
                    himself. This guard was selected by the marshal and was on duty sixty-eight 
                  
                     32
                            Indiana Democrat, July 8, '53.
               
                     days, for which Freeman was forced to pay $204.
                    This, added to what had already occurred, enraged the people all the more. The 
                        United States
                     marshal was held to be the cause of this affair and he was maligned and upbraided more
                    than ever by the press.
            During the nine weeks interim Freeman's counsel were busily engaged gathering evidence to
                    clear their client. They went to 
                        Georgia
                     and to 
                        Canada
                     getting proof of Freeman's" statements. At the request and direction
                    of Freeman Messrs. Ketcham and Coburn both Wrote letters to 
                  Monroe, Walton county, Georgia
               , the place of Freeman's former residence to ascertain
                    whether they could get into communication with any witnesses. They both received letters proving
                    what their client had previously said. Here is printed the letter received by Mr. Ketcham, and which
                    was similar to the one received by Mr. Coburn: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              MONROE, WALTON COUNTY, GEORGIA,
                           
                                     July 6, 1853.
                                
                        DEAR SIR–Mr. William W. Nowell, the
                                    clerk of our county court, has just handed me your letter of the 22d June, with the
                                    request that I should answer it, as I was better acquainted with John Freeman, the
                                    person enquired about, than he was. I replied to a letter of Mr. John Coburn of your
                                    place yesterday, on the same subject. I have lived in this place ever since January,
                                    1826, and was well acquainted with John Freeman from the time he came here in 1831,
                                    till he left in 1844. I may be mistaken about the time he came–at any
                                    rate, it was in 1831 or 1832–but I think it was 1831. He had free papers,
                                    which were recognized by the judges of the inferior court of this county, and a
                                    certificate was granted him. Col. John P. Lucas was clerk at that time, if I
                                    recollect. Colonel Lucas wrote a bolder and plainer hand than I do. He died of
                                    apoplexy or paralysis since then. John Freeman went with him to the 
                                        Florida
                                     war in 1836. John Freeman is of medium size, well made, and a black
                                    negro. There are hundreds of persons in this county who could testify that he came
                                    to this place as early as 1831, or '32, and remained here all the while
                                    except his trip to 
                                        Florida
                                     in the spring of 1836, and one or two other times when he was absent
                                    for a few days on business for Creed M. Jennings and others. Creed M. Jennings lives
                                    now in Wetumpka, Alabama. He made his home with Mr. Jennings for several years after
                                    he came to this place. His statements that you speak of are true, and there can be
                                    no doubt but that the claim set up by the man from 
                                        Missouri
                                     is fraudulent and can be proved to be so by any reasonable number of
                                    our most respectable citizens.
                        
                                    Respectfully,
                                    
                                    LEROY PATILLO, P. M.33
                           
                                
                     
                  
               
                
            
               
                  33
                        Indiana American, Jan. 20, 1854.
            
            
            Not being satisfied with the letter alone as evidence, Freeman asked Mr. Ketcham to go to 
                        Georgia
                     and bring witnesses for his defense. This Mr. Ketcham did. He brought Leroy Patillo,
                    the postmaster at 
                  Monroe, Georgia
               , and other acquaintances of Freeman. Mr. Ketcham concluded to
                    test Freeman on his acquaintanceship with Patillo. He brought Mr. Patillo to the ante-room of the
                    jail and placed him in an obscure position. Freeman was then brought in and shook hands with Mr.
                    Ketcham. This gentleman then told him to look around and see if any of his old friends were present.
                    He slowly cast his eyes around on those present, nodding to this and that one with the accustomed
                    deferential manner of a colored man, but when he came to the southern gentleman spoken of, he fixed
                    his eyes upon him, eagerly recognized him, rushed toward him, grasped his hand and with heartfelt
                    emotion said, "God bless you, Massa Patillo, how do you do?" This was too much for
                    the old gentleman's equanimity, he was unmanned and shed tears and, indeed, there were few
                    dry eyes in the room.34
            
            While Mr. Ketcham was securing witnesses from 
                        Georgia
                     and 
                        Alabama
                    , Mr. Coburn was rounding up witnesses from 
                  Greenup
                            county, Kentucky
               , the former
                    home of Rev. Ellington and the place from which Ellington had brought his three witnesses to testify
                    to the identity of Freeman as Sam. When he arrived at Amanda Furnace, 
                  Greenup county, Kentucky
               , he learned that Ellington's slave some years before had
                    sent his respects to his master by Dr. Adams of 
                        Ohio
                    . He learned that the doctor's daughter lived in the county, and from her he
                    found out his residence to be in 
                  Jackson, Ohio
               . He immediately went to see the doctor, who
                    stated that he had taken Sam's respects to his master; that Sam then lived in
                            
                  Salem, Ohio
               , and passed by the name of Wiliam McConnell; that he had told his
                    name in a public speech; his master's name to be Ellington;his residence 
                  Greeneup county, Kentucky
               , opposite Hanging Rock; his history, his escape and capture at
                            
                  Millersport, Ohio
               , in the year of 1835 in the canal. It was upon the occasion when
                    Mr. Paul of 
                        Wheeling
                     attempted to retake his slaves and failed, having been resisted by Sam, alias McConnell
                    and others.
            
               
                  34
                        
                            Logansport
                        
                        Journal, July 30, 1853.
            
            
            Mr. Coburn then went to 
                        Salem
                    , where he found the doctor's statements confirmed, found men who knew
                    Sam's marks, his history since 1836 at 
                        Salem
                     and his account of his slavery and adventure on Big Sandy at the Iron Furnaces and the
                    Hanging Rock ferry. He found that McConnell answered the descriptions given of Sam in the
                    depositions in 
                        Kentucky
                    , which did not correspond with Freeman.
            He returned to 
                        Indianapolis
                     and offered to bear Ellington's expense to 
                        Canada
                     to Sam's residence, where he had fled upon the passage of the new fugitive
                    slave law. This, Ellington refused to do. Mr. Coburn then proceeded to 
                        Kentucky
                     and prevailed upon Henry A. Mead, Esq., a relative of Ellington, a slaveholder, and a
                    man of wealth, who now resided on the farm whence Sam escaped, to go with him to 
                        Canada
                    . He also prevailed upon Capt. James Nichols, a near neighbor, and the largest
                    slaveholder in 
                        Greenup county
                    , to accompany them. They are both gentlemen of the first character and friends of
                    Ellington. When they started, they said it was impossible that Ellington could be mistaken in his
                    man, but that they would go to 
                        Canada
                     and see if the man pointed out was really Sam. They went together. When near
                    Sam's house, Mr. Coburn staid behind in the woods, and let Messrs. Mead and Nichols go
                    alone to the house. As they approached, a mutual recognition took place. They met as old friends,
                    shook hands, conversed freely about Ellington and all their former acquaintances.
            Sam seemed very glad to see them. He showed them the scars on his person, a very large burn on the
                    outside of his left leg below the knee going down to the ankle, scars on the back over the shoulders
                    produced by the bite of another negro, a mark on his left wrist and another on the left elbow, his
                    peculiarly small ears, his singular feet, the two longer toes on each foot being much longer than
                    others in proportion, and what were surer marks, their mutual recollections tallied. They went to 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in their depositions stated the facts as above, and that they had not the shadow of a
                    doubt as to the man in 
                        Canada
                     being the genuine Sam.35
            
            The evidence secured by Mr. Coburn regarding the body marks of Sam, who was then residing near
                    Maiden, 
                        Canada
                    , 
                  
                     35 From The Bugle, quoted by the Locomotive, Sept. 24, '53.
               
                     did not correspond with those of Freeman. Freeman had but one
                    body mark, a scar about one and one-half inches in diameter on the left leg produced by a cut. He
                    had no scar on the left leg from being burnt, no bite marks on his back or shoulders, nor any marks
                    on his arms. The outward appearance of Sam and Freeman did not tally. Sam was tall, jet black and
                    full chested. Freeman was six inches shorter, low, heavy set and was a muddy brown in color. This
                    was bad evidence for the Rev. Mr. Ellington, whose Sam had disappeared from his 
                        Kentucky
                     home sixteen years before.
            The day for Freeman's last test for freedom was fast approaching. There was deep feeling
                    manifested on the part of 
                        Indianapolis
                     citizens in regard to the case, so much so that one of the city papers cautioned
                    calmness on the part of the people. After announcing that Freeman's trial had been set for
                    Monday the 29th of August and that Freeman's counsel had "spared no exertions to
                    prove his innocence, having been to 
                        Georgia
                     once and to 
                        Canada
                     twice", they continued in the following strain: 
                        A good deal of feeling exists in the community on this case, as many think the law, under
                            which he will be tried, will not give him a chance to prove his innocence. This is the fault
                            of the law. One object in writing this is to caution our citizens against permitting their
                            feelings to lead them to do or say anything that should not be said or done. The best course
                            is to leave his defense in the hands of his counsel, who have and will do all that can be
                            done to save him. If his freedom is established, of course, Ellington is liable for damages,
                            and they can be recovered from him. If it is not established, let the officers of the law
                            quietly carry it out. Resistance will only bring those that engage in it into difficulty
                            without doing any good. In cases of this kind, a mild course is always best–using
                            unkind or threatening expression on either side only embitters and confirms, without doing
                            any good and against this either in word or action, we would like to see our citizens
                                guard.36
                  
                    
                
            In the midst of this excitement, Creed M. Jennings, his old guardian, arrived from 
                        Alabama
                    . He had heard of Freeman's bad situation and had come to aid him. Like Mr.
                    Patillo before him, he was accompanied to the jail, together with many of the citizens of the town.
                    Freeman did not know that Mr. Jennings was in the city or anything about his intended visit. The
                    prisoner was shaking hands with his friends, when he observed the stranger. He rushed toward 
                  
                     36
                            Locomotive, Aug. 30, 1853
               
                     him, grasped his hand with emotion, fell on his knees and
                    exclaimed, "God bless you Massa Jennings". He then turned around and observed to
                    the spectators that Massa Jennings knew he didn't lie, and that he was not a slave, or
                    something to that effect. The spectators were strongly moved and Mr. Jennings could not repress the
                    tears of feeling and sympathy.37
            
            Ellington arrived on the scene on Saturday before the trial which was set for the following Monday.
                    He brought his son with him to be a witness for reclamation. Mr. Liston, who had become convinced
                    that Freeman was not Ellington's slave, advised Ellington to abandon the case. Before the
                    son went to see Freeman, he read the depositions of Messrs. Nichols and Mead, which thoroughly
                    prepared his mind for a proper inspection. On his return, he said he did not believe that Freeman
                    was his father's slave. Thereupon, Ellington gave up the fight and Commissioner Sullivan
                    dismissed the case. On that day and the following Monday, the day set for the trial, six Georgians
                    came to testify in behalf of Freeman. They had all known him since 1831. Messrs. Patillo and
                    Jennings had come previously and Gov. Howell Cobb of 
                        Alabama
                     would have come had he been telegraphed.
            Commenting upon the action of the southern witnesses the Locomotive said: 
                        All praise is due these gentlemen from 
                                Kentucky
                             and 
                                Georgia
                             for their magnanimous and manly conduct, and most nobly does their
                            disinterested generosity contrast with the repacity of Ellington. Ellington as a ruse,
                            pretended to desire a compromise with Freeman on Saturday, but ran away without having
                            offered one cent.38
                  
                    
                
            It is said by an Indiana writer that the crestfallen Ellington went on foot by night to a station
                    south of 
                        Indianapolis
                     on the 
                        Madison
                     and 
                        Indianapolis
                     railroad and took cars for his southern home never again to be seen in the old Hoosier
                        state.39
            
            The people of 
                        Indianapolis
                     and the state at large were greatly rejoiced over the outcome of the trial, but they
                    had increased hatred for the law which came so near dragging 
                  
                     37
                            Indiana Daily Journal, Aug. 26, 1853.
                  
                     38 Locomotive, Sept. 2, '53.
                  
                     39 O. H. Smith, Early Indiana Trials and Sketches,
                            279–9.
               
                     back into slavery a free, colored man. From 
                        Fort Wayne
                     came the clarion cry: 
                        Freeman, the colored man, who has been claimed as a slave by a Methodist preacher from 
                                St. Louis
                            , named Ellington, has been released, having clearly and incontestably proved
                            that he was not the man sought. The reverend slave catcher has been compelled to give up his
                            victim. Freeman's counsel are going to commence a suit for damages against
                            Ellington. A more flagrant case of injustice, we have never seen. It appears to us in such
                            cases, that if the person swearing to the idenity of the accused and seeking to consign a
                            free man to slavery, were tried and punished for perjury, a wholesome lesson would be given
                            which might prevent injustice to free persons of color. The fugitive slave law evidently
                            needs some amendment, to give greater protection to free persons of color. As it now stands,
                            almost any of them might be dragged into slavery. If Freeman had not had money and friends
                            he must inevitably have been taken off into bondage. Any poor man, without friends, would
                            have been given up at once and taken away, and it was only by the most strenuous exertions
                            that he was rescued. A law under which such injustice can be perpetrated, and which holds
                            out such inducements to perjury, is imperfect and must be amended or repealed. The American
                            people have an innate sense of justice which will not long allow such a law to disgrace our
                            statute books.40
                  
                    
                
            From the True Republican we quote: 
                        Freeman, the alleged fugitive, claimed by Ellington and confined in jail at 
                                Indianapolis
                            , has been liberated. Here is an evidence of evil growing out of the fugitive
                            slave law and one that will be remembered by the people of Indiana in all time to come. This
                            slave-hunting minister who has been bold enough to attempt to kidnap a free negro has all at
                            once become convinced that Freeman is not his slave. This single instance of an attempt at
                            kidnapping is sufficient to show that the fugitive slave bill is bad law, bad constitution,
                            bad morality and worse religion. Humanity demands a modification.41
                  
                    
                
            The American expresses its reproach for Ellington and his witnesses and the
                    injustice done Freeman in this manner: 
                        We see in this case the most remarkable instance on record of mistaken personal identity or
                            else stupendous perjury. Here comes Ellington and swears to his chattel, then come others to
                            testify to his identity, and yet after all he is no slave, but a bona fide
                            free man. Now, were Ellington and his co-swearers all this time mistaken? If so, what a
                            lesson to our courts on the difficulty of personal identity. If not
                            "mistaken" then were they all the while practicing deep prejury, and now
                            who pays 
                        
                           40
                                    
                                        Fort Wayne
                                    
                                    Sentinel, Sept 8, 1853.
                        
                           41
                                    True Republican, Aug. 31, 1853.
                     
                             these costs? Who pays 'the loss of
                            Freeman's time, the sacrifice of his business and the destruction of its profits?
                            By the "mistake" or perjury of the covetous wretch who sought to increase
                            his ownership in groaning humanity, has this man been stripped of his property. Has he a
                            remedy? Does this "glorious" compromise furnish an offset against a
                            grievance so oppressive? Must this man, innocent and free, bear all this outrage and have no
                            legal redress? must he? Is this justice? Shall no legal justice be visited on the would-be-
                            man-stealer and the marshal, who was his tool and co-oppressor?42
                  
                    
                
            Freeman did not let such indecent conduct go unchallenged. As has been indicated, his counsel began a
                    damage suit against Ellington for $10,000. The case was filed in the 
                        Marion county
                     court in September, 1853, and was docketed for the next term of court. On the Saturday
                    that the case against Freeman was dismissed by Commissioner Sullivan, Ellington's attorneys
                    made an attempt to compromise with Freeman. They offered either to pay $1,500, as a full
                    satisfaction, or else the expense incurred by him in the suit, including reasonable lawyers fees,
                    $2 a day for lost time, and a reasonable amount for damages. Freeman's counsel
                    agreed to receive $3,000, but Ellington did not tarry longer to compromise and made sure
                    his escape that night.43
            
            The damage suit against Ellington came up in May, 1854, in the county circuit court. Ellington did
                    not appear himself, his attorneys acting for him. Freeman sued for $10,000 damages for
                    false imprisonment. The trial started on Tuesday and the forenoon was taken up in examining Stopp,
                    who acted as marshal in Freeman's arrest. He told about going to Freeman's home
                    and taking him to Commissioner Sullivan's office, thence to the courthouse, accompanied by
                    Ellington and his men, how Ellington attempted to examine Freeman's teeth and face and had
                    been repulsed by Ketcham, who reminded him that Freeman "was not a horse." His
                    examination continued until noon, when court adjourned until one o'clock. When court
                    convened, it was stated that the case was settled and an agreement of the counsel read that a
                    verdict should be rendered for the plaintiff for $2,000 and costs of the suit. This award
                    to Freeman meant nothing to him, for it was never paid. Ellington disposed of his property and left
                        
                  
                     42
                            Indiana American, Sept. 22, '53.
                  
                     43
                            Locomotive, Sept. 3, 1853.
               
                    
                    
                        St. Louis
                    . Soon the great Civil war came and both litigants were lost sight of in its
                        whirlpool.44
            
            Not long after the damage suit, it happened that a person familiar with the particulars of the
                    Freeman trial was traveling through 
                        Missouri
                     and passing through Ellington's home county ascertained all about the 
                        Missouri
                     preacher and wrote a letter to the editors of the Indiana State
                    Journal. It is as follows:
            
                    
                  
                     
                        
                                    
                              
                        PLATE COUNTY, MISSOURI,
                           
                                    July 24, 1854.
                                
                        MESSES. EDITORS–I give you one of
                                    the last that I have heard in this region as a sequel to the events that have given
                                    notoriety to Pleasant Ellington. I am now in his county and he seems to be very
                                    generally known.
                        The report is this, as brought back, I suppose by himself. The abolitionists, alias
                                    the citizens of 
                                        Indianapolis
                                    , privately managed to steal away his negro out of jail and sent him
                                    away to 
                                        Canada
                                     by the hands of men who returned and swore that they had seen
                                    Ellington's negro in 
                                        Canada
                                    . In his place in the jail they substituted Freeman, a free negro, and
                                    sent to 
                                        Georgia
                                     for testimony to prove his freedom. By this adroit, but rather costly
                                    maneuver he had been tricked out of his negro.
                        The report gains about as much currency here as it would be in your own city.
                                    Ellington is held in about the same estimation here as there. The people of his own
                                    town rejoiced in his defeat. Ellington, it is said, to avoid the Freeman judgment,
                                    has disposed of his property and left for parts unknown. When in the Wyandott
                                    nation, I learned that a lot of his negroes had been brought there for safety.46
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            From this letter it is discovered that Henry Ward Beecher was not very far wrong, when in a letter to
                    the 
                        Indianapolis
                     papers he called Ellington a "scoundrel clergyman" and the men who
                    aided him in his trial as a gang of "base miscreants". Further on in this letter,
                    referring to Ellington, Beecher says: 
            
                    
                  
                     
                        Meanwhile, that same God, who permits the existence of tarantulas, scorpions and
                                    other odious vermin, suffers also the existence of such creatures as this Rev.
                                    Ellington. It may serve a purpose in a glossy, timid, shuffling age to exhibit
                                    before the sun how utter a villain a man may be and yet keep within the pale of the
                                    law within the permissions of the church and within the requirements of the
                                    Christian ministry. To crush the human heart, to eat a living household, to take a
                                    family into ones hands and crush it like a cluster of grapes, this is respectable,
                                    legal and christian in the estimation of cotton patriots and patriotic 
                              
                                 44
                                            The Locomotive, May 13, 1854.
                              
                                 45
                                            Weekly State Journal, Aug. 12, 1854.
                           
                                     christians, who regard law as greater than
                                    justice, the Union more important than public virtue and practical Christianity.46
                        
                     
                  
               
                
            Freeman's friends and counsel later tried to collect damages from J. L. Robinson for
                    compelling Freeman to strip himself twice in the presence of Ellington and his witnesses, without
                    his counsel being present. Robinson, it will be recalled, forbade Freeman's counsel to be
                    present, if they should do anything to prevent him from being stripped. As a result of such rigorous
                    treatment, Robinson was sued in the 
                        Marion county
                     circuit court for $3,000. In his complaint Freeman charged that Robinson, as
                    marshal did "assault the plaintiff, and strip him naked, and expose his naked limbs and
                    body to divers persons who were witnesses against the plaintiff, and thereby exposed the plaintiff
                    to be carried into slavery for life by fraud and perjury", that from June 21 to September
                    1st Robinson, "by fraud, threats and duress illegally extorted from the plaintiff the sum
                    of three dollars per day during said period for a space of 60 days".47
                    Robinson answered these allegations by pleading that the acts complained of were in the course of
                    his duty as an officer, and also pleaded a lack of jurisdiction, on the ground that he resided in 
                        Rush county
                    . The case was finally appealed to the supreme course. The supreme court sustained the
                    lower court, which upheld Robinson's pleas on the point of lack of jurisdiction. It did
                    hold, however, that stripping and exposure to hostile witnesses and the extortion of money were no
                    part of Robinson's official duty. This decision was given December 21, 1855. Why Freeman
                    did not bring suit against Robinson in 
                        Rush county
                     is not known, but he seems to have grown tired of litigation and with the decision of
                    the supreme court the fight was forever closed.
            While these things were transpiring Robinson's cowardly conduct was being flayed by some of
                    the papers in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . Said one: 
                        The President's approval of his conduct, proves nothing but that Mr. Robinson has
                            made good use of the opportunity he had of appearing in the double character of witness and
                            advocate. Freeman was not before the President at the same time. But allowing that Mr.
                            Robinson 
                        
                           46
                                    Indiana Free Democrat, Aug. 4, 1853.
                        
                           47 Freeman vs. Robinson, 7 Ind., p.
                                321.
                     
                             intended to represent the matter fairly to Mr. Pierce,
                            his approval is not so satisfactory as the verdict of a jury would be, and why did not Mr.
                            Robinson let a jury pass upon the matter? The demurrer applied only to the jurisdiction of
                            the court, not to the merits of the case. The filing that demurrer was entirely in Mr.
                            Robinson's power. Why did he not let it alone, and let the jury take the case on
                            its merits? Was he as confident of their approval as the President's? Consciousness
                            of right does not seek evasion, and a plea to the jurisdiction is an evasion always.48
                  
                    
                
            Freeman had most of his capital invested in real estate. He owned about four acres of land lying in
                    lot four St. Clair's addition between Meridian and 
                        Pennsylvania
                     streets near the present site of St. Peter's and 
                        St. Paul
                    's cathedral.49 He also owned an eat shop on 
                        Washington
                     near Meridian. His trial left him almost destitute. He had been at a heavy expense in
                    procuring evidence and paying witness fees. The marshal had practically compelled him to pay three
                    dollars a day for a guard to watch over him while he was in jail. No charges were made against him
                    by the court or his lawyers. The heaviest expenses in procuring witnesses were those from 
                        Georgia
                     and 
                        Alabama
                    .
            To aid him in financing his trial for liberty an appeal was made to the ministers of the churches of
                    Indiana and 
                        Georgia
                     for relief. The money thus secured was to be turned over to Calvin Fletcher, president
                    of the State Bank of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , in which Freeman was liable for a note for $1,288 with interest. This had
                    to be paid, or his property would have to be sold to meet it. Finances were finally accumulated in
                    this manner to save his home of a few acres which he gardened. Upon this he lived until the war,
                    when he sold out and left the city for 
                        Canada
                    .50
            
            Thus ended the Freeman case, by far the greatest single event in the execution of the fugitive law in
                    Indiana. It aligned people against it who were formerly for it. It brought home to the people as
                    nothing could, or ever had done before, the fact that innocent people were likely to be drawn again
                    into the shackles of slavery, an institution which they had come to hate and which they thought
                    wrong anywhere and especially contrary to democracy. Not only was one part or 
                  
                     48 The Chanticleer, Feb. 9, '54.
                  
                     49 Town Lot Record, p. 95
                  
                     50
                            Indiana American, Jan. 20, '54.
               
                     one section of the state brought to realize the wickedness and
                    injustice of the law, but from every part of the state newspapers commented on the case and scored
                    the law. As being characteristic of that time and prophetic of the future, we close with a quotation
                    from a paper of that time: 
                        We admit all the difficulties and dangers which surround the question of the amelioration or
                            overthrow of this institution (slavery). But We believe the world does move, that its ideas
                            are progressing, that the christian religion is elevating the moral sentiments of mankind,
                            and that the day is coming when this gross outrage upon humanity, this wrong to the
                            oppressed and injury to the oppressor, will disappear from this continent. The enlightened
                            civilization which is spreading over the world, the gradual elevation of the masses of the
                            human family in intelligence and morality forbid that this monstrous outrage should be
                            tolerated by the people of the states where it exists much longer. If Christianity and
                            republicanism combined cannot undermine it, neither of them is as potent as we have reason
                            to hope and believe. We speak of this evil in no unkind spirit towards the great body of the
                            people of the slave states, who know and feel that slavery is an evil, but who are unable to
                            see any means of escape from it. But what can be thought of the morality or religion of a
                            man who claims as his property a fellow being, who has not been under his control for twenty
                            years, who has formed new relations, established a character for industry and thrift, and
                            who has accumulated property to a considerable amount, to compel him to give up all and
                            return to bondage, or to extort from him or his friends an exorbitant price for the human
                            chattel? What would the majority of high-minded men in a slave state say to the justice of
                            such a stale claim themselves?51
                  
                    
                
            
               
                  51
                        The True Republican, Aug. 10, 1853.
            
         
         
         
            Historical News
            BY LUCY ELLIOTT
            
            A total of one hundred and sixty-five members have been added to the Indiana Historical Society since
                    January 1, 1921. Following is a list of the names as reported by Miss Lucy M. Elliott, secretary of
                    the membership committee: 
                  Ade, George, Brooks
                  Alldredge, Henry D., 
                                Vallonia
                            
                  
                  Allison, Ebert, 
                                Tipton
                            
                  
                  Almond, James E., 
                                Wabash
                            
                  
                  Armstrong, Mrs. Mary, Boonville
                  Askew, Mrs. Harry, 
                                Bedford
                            
                  
                  Austin, Miss Lelah, English
                  Axby, Dr. J. L., 
                                Aurora
                            
                  
                  Baker, Mrs. Fannie, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Baker, Mrs. Mae, 
                                Huntington
                            
                  
                  Ball, Albert J., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Barker, W. L., Boonville
                  Bates, William O., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Barrows, Mrs. Frederica, 
                                Connersville
                            
                  
                  Bohannon, Anna L., 
                                Rushville
                            
                  
                  Baxter, Amos R., 
                                Rushville
                            
                  
                  Beale, Fred R., 
                                Rushville
                            
                  
                  Bentley, Bonnie, Clinton
                  Bone, Mrs. Charles, 
                                West Lafayette
                            
                  
                  Boss, Mrs. John C, 
                                Elkhart
                            
                  
                  Bowen, Caroline P., Delphi
                  Boyd, Permelia, Scottsburg
                  Brown, Mrs. Agnes Fletcher, 
                                Ft. Wayne
                            
                  
                  Brown, Austin H., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Brown, Chester G., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Burns, Lee, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Bynum, Mrs. Cora, 
                                Lebanon
                            
                  
                  Carney, John Ralph, 
                                Vernon
                            
                  
                  Case, Mrs. J. D., 
                                Rushville
                            
                  
                  Catlin, Mrs. T. H., 
                                Rockville
                            
                  
                  Colbert, Miss Emma, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Comstock, Paul, 
                                Richmond
                            
                  
                  Collins, Mrs. H. H., 
                                New Albany
                            
                  
                  Cox, Miles S., 
                                Rushville
                            
                  
                  Cox, Ralph Stewart, Bartlesville, Okla.
                  Cox, William N., Bloomingdale
                  Decker, John F., Bluffton
                  Dinwiddie, Mrs. John Lee, Fowler
                  Dooley, Mrs. Rufus, 
                                Rockville
                            
                  
                  Dooley, Mr. Rufus, 
                                Rockville
                            
                  
                  Earl, Mrs. Elizabeth Clayton, 
                                Muncie
                            
                  
                  Edwards, Alice S., Peru
                  Elder, Mrs. Laura B., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Elliott, Lucy M., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Felter, Mrs. Frank, 
                                Huntington
                            
                  
                  Feudner, Will C, 
                                Rushville
                            
                  
                  Finch, Miss Alice, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Flanner, Frank B., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Forsyth, Edgar T., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Fortune, Will, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Foster, Glen E., 
                                Rushville
                            
                  
                  Foster, Samuel M., Ft, 
                                Wayne
                            
                  
                  Frazer, Harriet D., 
                                Warsaw
                            
                  
                  Frederick, J. E., 
                                Kokomo
                            
                  
                  Fretageot, Mrs. Nora, 
                                New Harmony
                            
                  
                  Gaesser, Theo S., 
                                Troy
                            
                  
                  Gardner, Nora G., 
                                Monticello
                            
                  
                  Garvin, Susan M., 
                                Evansville
                            
                  
                  Green, Ferrol, 
                                Franklin
                            
                  
                  Green, Thomas M., 
                                Rushville
                            
                  
                  Gresham, Mr. Otto, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Gipson, Prof. L. H., 
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                  
                  Goble, W. 0., Swayzee
                  Griswold, B. J., 
                                Ft. Wayne
                            
                  
                  Haines, Prof. D. D., 
                                Crawfordsville
                            
                  
                  Haines, George M., Clarks Hill
                  
                  Hamilton, Leland S., 
                                Bloomington
                            
                  
                  Harrison, Martha McCarty, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Haworth, C. V., 
                                Kokomo
                            
                  
                  
                  Hendricks, Mrs. Jane Thomas, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Hoagland, Merica Evans, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Holmes, C. O., Gary
                  Hopkins, Mrs. Ada, Boonville
                  Insley, William H., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Irwin, M. H., 
                                Brookville
                            
                  
                  Irwin, William G., 
                                Columbus
                            
                  
                  Johnson, John W., Patriot
                  Kelly, Daniel E., 
                                Valparaiso
                            
                  
                  Ketcham, Mrs. William, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Kirkpatrick, Miss Margaret, 
                                Rockville
                            
                  
                  Kiper, Mrs. Nannette, Boonville
                  Lesh, Mrs. Ofa Wilkins, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Lindsay, George D., 
                                Marion
                            
                  
                  Lombard, Mrs. Mary, 
                                Spencer
                            
                  
                  Luckett, Kate, Corydon
                  Lupton, A. J., 
                                Hartford City
                            
                  
                  McBride, Robert W., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  McClellan, J. Y. W., 
                                Auburn
                            
                  
                  McCray, Mrs. Homer, Kendallville
                  McCoy, Harriet A., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Mcllwain, Frank, 
                                Rushville
                            
                  
                  McKinsey, Alma J., 
                                Frankfort
                            
                  
                  McNamee, 
                                Wabash
                            
                  
                  McNitt, Esther, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  McPheeters, Thaddeus H., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  McWhirter, Luella F., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Maple, Dr. James B., Sullivan
                  Marion, Iva, Newport
                  Matthew, William H., Gary
                  Mavity, John M., 
                                Valparaiso
                            
                  
                  Merry, Blanche, 
                                Rensselaer
                            
                  
                  Moore, J. B. H., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Musselman, Mrs. Ella, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Nelson, Mary C, 
                                Logansport
                            
                  
                  Newsom, Vida, 
                                Columbus
                            
                  
                  Nicholson, Miss Elizabeth, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Noel, Elizabeth Buchanan, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  O'Bannon, Lew M., Corydon
                  Oliver, John W., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Otis, Fred B., 
                                Bedford
                            
                  
                  Palmer, Harriet C, Miss, 
                                Franklin
                            
                  
                  Payne, Earl H., 
                                Rushville
                            
                  
                  Payne, Ralph, 
                                Rushville
                            
                  
                  Penrod, Will K., Loogootee
                  Pentecost, Mrs. P. J., 
                                Tipton
                            
                  
                  Ratts, Oscar (Hon.), Paoli
                  Reade, Mrs. Anna R., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Record, Claude M., Medarysville
                  Reisler, Mrs. Simon, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Reser, Alva O., 
                                Lafayette
                            
                  
                  Robinson, Mary Yandes, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Robinson, W. D., 
                                Versailles
                            
                  
                  Roetzele, Mrs. Helen, Boonville
                  Ross, Mrs. Ora Thompson, 
                                Rensselaer
                            
                  
                  Roth, Mrs. George A., Boonville
                  Routh, Miss Alma Ashley, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Rumpler, Mrs. Maude Lucas, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Schlegel, Clarence O., Oaktown
                  Schurz, Edwin, Laporte
                  Sims, Fred A., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Simms, Dan W., 
                                Lafayette
                            
                  
                  Sisters of 
                                Providence
                            , St. Marys of the Woods
                  Sheridan, Mrs. H. C, 
                                Frankfort
                            
                  
                  Shirk, John, 
                                Brookville
                            
                  
                  Snepp, Daniel W., Edinburg
                  Sparks, Mrs. Nathan, 
                                Jeffersonville
                            
                  
                  Starr, Henry C, 
                                Richmond
                            
                  
                  Stiffler, Charles B., 
                                Rushville
                            
                  
                  Stoops, Alice B., 
                                Petersburg
                            
                  
                  Strauss', S. W., 
                                New York City
                            
                  
                  Taggart, Harold F., 
                                Richmond
                            
                  
                  Tandy, Mrs., 
                                Vevay
                            
                  
                  Taylor, Mrs. Mamie, 
                                Petersburg
                            
                  
                  Taylor, Judge Arthur, 
                                Petersburg
                            
                  
                  Teel, William Ross, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Thomas, Ernest B., 
                                Rushville
                            
                  
                  Thompson, Charles Nebeker, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Thompson, Lucy Pritchard Sawyer, 
                                Brooklyn
                            , N. Y.
                  
                  Torbet, Charles E., 
                                Evansville
                            
                  
                  Van Buskirk, J. B., 
                                Monticello
                            
                  
                  Voris, Arta Payne, Mrs. M. J., 
                                Franklin
                            
                  
                  Weik, Jesse, 
                                Greencastle
                            
                  
                  Wheatley, Ella C, 
                                Oakland City
                            
                  
                  Wiles, Mrs. Cora Y., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Wilkinson, Orville A., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Williams, Oscar H., 
                                Bloomington
                            
                  
                  Williams, C. Roy, 
                                Vincennes
                            
                  
                  Wills, Evelyn E., 
                                Bedford
                            
                  
                  Wilson, Thomas J., Corydon
                  Wilson, Margaret A., 
                                Jasper
                            
                  
                  Wishard, Mrs. Dr. William Niles, 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Wright, Mrs. Lizzie B., 
                                Rockport
                            
                  
                  Wynn, Thomas A., 
                                Indianapolis
                            
                  
                  Young, Mrs. A. H., 
                                Hanover
                            
                  
               
                
            The last session of the Indiana General Assembly passed two acts that are of special interest to the
                    history loving people of Indiana. One of these known as Senate Bill 190, authorizes the County
                    Commissioners in each county where there is an historical society, or where such a society may
                    hereafter be organized, to employ a curator, whose duties shall be prescribed by the Historical
                    Society. For the purpose of paying the curator's salary, which in no case shall exceed
                    seventy-five ($75) dollars per month, and for the purpose of collecting, cataloging, and
                    printing historical material, the county commissioners are authorized to appropriate from the county
                    funds the sum of fifteen hundred ($1,500) dollars per year. Counties like
                            
                  St. Joseph, Jefferson, Allen, Washington, Henry, Bartholomew, White, Franklin, Miami
               , and 
                        Jackson, counties
                     that have already taken the lead in historical work, will no doubt take advantage of
                    the provisions of this act at once. Others will join in the movement, encouraged by the support that
                    is now made available from public funds.
            Another act of particular interest to counties that are compiling a war history, was passed during
                    the recent session of the legislature. This act authorized county commissioners to appropriate the
                    sum of one thousand ($1,000) dollars to be used for the printing of the county's
                    war history. The act also provides that one copy of the history shall be placed in each public
                    library within the county, each school library of the county, and each post of the American Legion
                    in the county. In a majority of the counties in Indiana, the histories pertaining to the
                    county's activities in the World War have been compiled in manuscript form, and with the
                    encouragement now offered by public support these will be printed.  There should be a county war history published for each of the
                    ninety-two counties in the state.
            A special act authorizing the Historical Commission to present one copy of the state's Gold
                    Star Volume to the parents or next of kin of all those who lost their lives while in service during
                    the World War was also passed at the recent session. This will constitute the state's
                    greatest and most lasting memorial to the sons and daughters of Indiana who paid the supreme
                    sacrifice in the World War.
            The 
                        Washington County
                     Historical Society at its February meeting elected the following officers:
            President: Mrs. Harvey Morris.
            Secretary: Mrs. Will C. Berkey.
            Treasurer: Miss Mattie White.
            Mrs. P. A. Cauble was appointed chairman of a committee to secure historical material and relics to
                    be added to the society. Among the interesting relics recently added to the society's
                    collection are two old steamboat lanterns, and a piece of the first iron rail used on the 
                        New Albany
                     and 
                        Salem
                     Railroad. The latter was the gift of Frank Richardson, a 
                        Washington County
                     pioneer who now lives in 
                        Colorado
                    .
            John B. Keyes, custodian of the DePauw estate, 
                        Salem
                    , Indiana, died February 12, 1921. Upon the death of the late Mr. Keyes, the DePauw
                    property was awarded to the city of 
                        Salem
                    , and many of the heirlooms have been turned over to the 
                        Washington County
                     Historical Society. General John DePauw, the original owner of the land on which the
                    old DePauw home was built, is associated with the Early Indiana history as a member of the
                    Constitutional Convention at Cory-don in 1816, and as State Senator from 
                        Washington
                    . Lawrence, 
                  Jackson, Orange
               , and 
                        Monroe counties
                     1825–1830. He was commissioned colonel of the Ninth Militia Regiment during
                    the war of 1812. He laid out the town of 
                        Salem
                     in 1814. The old DePauw home, built by Washington C. DePauw, patron of DePauw
                    University, stands as it was built, still retaining much of the original furniture. Among the
                    heirlooms turned over to the County Historical Society is a gown worn by the wife of General DePauw
                    when she became his bride in 1809. The tight-waisted, full skirted, silk dresses, the embroidered
                         shawls, the silk mitts and bonnets, are all in excellent
                    state of preservation.
            "The Old Capitol Hotel," which stood a little more than a mile east of Corydon, was
                    destroyed by fire on the night of March 20,1921. This historic land mark built in (1807) 1809, with
                    more than a century's history, is one of the last of those famous buildings that played
                    such an important part in Early Indiana history. Within this old tavern the members of the Early
                    Indiana legislature lived while attending sessions during the pioneer period of Indiana history. The
                    stone walls of the old building were more than eighteen inches in thickness, and stood twenty feet
                    in height. An effort was made by some of the patriotic citizens in Corydon to have the old building
                    preserved, but satisfactory terms with the owner could not be agreed upon, and the old stone, sad to
                    relate, is being ground into crushed rock, in order to be used on the public highways. Another land
                    mark in Indiana history gone!
            A representative of the Historical Society of 
                        Chicago
                    , recently paid a visit to John F. Wiseman near 
                  Patriot, Switzerland County
               ,
                    Indiana, and purchased an old plow which was used a century ago by the old settlers of southeastern
                    Indiana. The plow has a wooden mould-board made of black walnut, a hickory paddle with steel land
                    side and steel shear. It was originally purchased by Frederick J. Wiseman, an early settler of 
                        Switzerland County
                    , who bought the implement from one of the Swiss settlers. His son, John F. Wiseman, the
                    recent owner of the plow, is now eighty-one years old. It is believed that this old implement of
                    agriculture is at least one hundred and twenty-five years old, and it is still in good condition. To
                    the history loving people of Indiana, this is only another evidence of the imperative need of a
                    state museum in which the old relics and implements owned by our forefathers should be carefully and
                    permanently preserved. It is a most severe indictment on the people of Indiana to allow historical
                    societies and institutions from neighboring states to come into our midst and carry out of the state
                    these historical heirlooms which should be sacredly guarded and permanently preserved in Indiana.
            Mr. K. P. Diffenderfer of 
                        Cambridge City
                    , Indiana, who for fifty years has been employed on the 
                        Pennsylvania
                     Railroad,  is collecting data on the old
                            
                  Jeffersonville, Madison
               , and 
                        Indianapolis
                     (Panhandle) Railroad, with the view of preparing an historical narrative of this old
                    road. The data compiled by Mr. Diffenderfer includes a roster of the engines used on the old line in
                    1875, together with their names and numbers. The names of the engineers and the officers of the
                    road, and a description of the old coaches first used on this line are to be included in this
                    history. According to the records the first railway sleeping cars used in Indiana were built by
                    William Higgins in 1868. Mr. Higgins was master car builder at 
                        Jeffersonville
                    , Indiana, and built four sleeping cars in the year 1868. According to Mr. Diffenderfer,
                    Lew Pennington of Scottsburg, and James Lewis of 
                        Jeffersonville
                     were the first railway telegraphers in Indiana to take messages by ear.
            The Conservation Department of Indiana recently obtained by purchase the Mahlon I.
                    Paxon–Bluffton, Indiana–collection of relics and antiques. The Paxon
                    collection is considered one of the largest individual collections of its kind in Indiana if not in
                    the entire 
                        United States
                    . The late Mr. Paxon who was a Civil War veteran spent many years of his life and
                    thousands of dollars in building up this collection. Included in the collection is an old four
                    poster bed and trundle bed, several wooden lanterns, old clocks, dog-irons, case of skeletons, and
                    skeleton bones, three deer heads, candle lamps and moulders, several spinning wheels, and hundreds
                    of Indian relics such as stones, clubs, pipes, hatchets, axes, darts of all sizes, bows and arrows
                    and numerous other articles.
            A brief history of Commodore Perry's expedition to 
                        Japan
                     in 1852 compiled by Miss Mary H. Krout of 
                        Crawfordsville
                    , Indiana, has been issued by the 
                        United States
                     Government as one of its public documents. It is reprinted from the 
                        United States
                     Naval Institute Proceedings, Volume 47. In view of much of the yellow journal
                    discussion that is taking place just now regarding the relations between the 
                        United States
                     and 
                        Japan
                     it is interesting to note here that included in with the twelve articles of the treaty
                    of 1852, there was a provision declaring that there should be perfect, permanent and universal peace
                    forever between the 
                        United States
                     on the one part and 
                        Japan
                     on the other, and between their peoples respectively without exception of persons or
                    places.
            
            Among the newspapers in Indiana that have played a prominent part in the history of our state is to
                    be listed the 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Palladium, reported as the second oldest Indiana newspaper. The first issue of
                    this newspaper appeared January 31, 1821, under the editorship of Nelson Boone, a pioneer printer of
                    the Middle West. Mr. Boone was in charge of the paper only a short time. One of the early owners was
                    John Finley, the second mayor of 
                        Richmond
                    , whose Hoosier Nest has been said by some to have been responsible for the term
                    "Hoosier". Two copies of the old 
                        Richmond
                    
                    Palladium are known to be in existence. In one of these a special editorial
                    appears calling attention to the fact that the paper on which the Palladium was
                    printed was manufactured in 
                        Richmond
                    , and that the mill which turned out this old print paper was the first in Indiana.
                    There was no wood pulp in those days, and the paper was manufactured from genuine rags. As a result
                    the old issues of the Palladium show comparatively little decay during the ninety
                    years. The advertising included in these two issues includes statements from merchants, millers,
                    blasksmiths, and doctors.
            The 
                        Bartholomew County
                     Historical Society was organized on March 26, 1921, with the following officers:
            George Pence, President.
            Will Irwin, Vice-President.
            Miss Vida Newsom, Treasurer.
            D. J. Richards, Secretary.
            At the opening meeting Mr. Pence read a paper on the "Making of 
                        Bartholomew County
                    ," which will be printed as one of the society's publications. The
                    society will hold its meetings temporarily in the Chamber of Commerce building. The constitution and
                    by-laws adopted by this society provides for an annual meeting on January 8th, the date of the
                    organization of the county. Provision was also made for electing honorary members, and Mr. George
                    Pence was chosen as the first honorary member of the Society.
            The 
                        Parke County
                     Historical Society held an interesting meeting on Friday, April 29th, in 
                        Rockville
                    , at which time Professor Harlow Lindley, Secretary of the Indiana Historical
                    Commission, delivered an address. This is 
                        Parke County
                    's Centennial year, and the meeting took the form of a centennial  celebration. Professor Lindley, a native of 
                        Parke County
                    , spoke on the subject of "Popularizing History."
            The 
                        Fort Wayne
                     Historical Society, the largest local society formed in Indiana, was organized March
                    23, 1921, with a charter membership of 204 members. The following officers were elected:
            President: W. H. Peltier.
            Vice-President: B. J. Griswold.
            Secretary: Mrs. J. B. Frankshaw.
            Treasurer: Ross F. Lockridge.
            
               
                        Fort Wayne
                     has blazed the way for other cities in Indiana in promoting the study and presentation
                    of local history. An historical revue portraying the history of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     from 1614 to 1761 was presented to a crowded house on two or three separate occasions,
                    preceding the organization of the society. The pageant aroused great interest on the part of the
                    citizens of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                     in their local history. Pageants and historical revues are rapidly becoming more
                    popular throughout the state, and for the purpose of presenting a review of a community's
                    local history are unsurpassed. Mr. B. J. Griswold, local historian of 
                        Ft. Wayne
                    , is running a series of interesting articles in the Journal Gazette
                    entitled "Stories of Old 
                        Fort Wayne
                    ". Mr. Griswold has already identified himself as the foremost historian of
                    northeastern Indiana, and particularly of the 
                        Fort Wayne
                     region. The stories that are now appearing in the 
                        Fort Wayne
                    
                    Gazette contain many valuable incidents of historic value, and supplement in many
                    in-" stances the chapters contained in Mr. Griswold's history of 
                        Fort Wayne
                    .
            John J. B. Hatfield, eighty-nine years old, a pioneer resident of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , died February 20,1921. The late Mr. Hatfield is known in Indiana history as master
                    workman of the Government Arsenal located on the present site of Technical High School in 
                        Indianapolis
                    . He was employed as master armorer in the old arsenal from 1862–1865, and
                    kept an order book showing the various duties assigned to the munition employes of the old arsenal.
                    Mr. Hatfield was largely responsible for having the government records of the old arsenal returned a
                    few years ago and deposited in the library of the Arsenal Technical High School. The order book
                    shows that in one  month, March, 1862, more than 6,990,000
                    rounds of ammunition were shipped from the old arsenal. When Morgan was making his raid across
                    southern Indiana, Mr. Hatfield hurriedly checked out the supplies that were stored in the old
                    arsenal, and rushed them to 
                        St. Louis
                     for safe keeping.
            The Division of Geology of the State Conservation Department, and the Indiana Historical Commission
                    are co-operating in making an historical and archaelogical survey of Indiana. These two departments
                    acting in co-operation with the National Research Council have prepared an outline of the material
                    that is to be included in this state-wide survey. The archeological features will include a
                    description of the mounds, their size, shape, state of preservation, location and ownership. Also a
                    description of specimens and articles found within the mounds will be included, and maps, drawings,
                    and charts will be prepared in order to assist the investigator in making the survey. The material
                    to be noted in the historical survey is to include such items as old books, diaries, antiques,
                    letters, ledger books, old furniture, argicultural tools, transportation devices, war relics and
                    heirlooms of historic value. In addition an effort will be made to locate historic sites, buildings,
                    battlefields, and old churches and cemeteries, with the view of marking these spots throughout the
                    state. Persons willing to co-operate in the survey should communicate with the Historical Commission
                    or with the Division of Geology, State House, 
                        Indianapolis
                    .
            Philip Kabel, of 
                        Winchester
                    , Indiana, who has been referred to as a "relic fiend", has in his
                    possession one of the most interesting and valuable private collections of historical relics in
                    Indiana. Recently Mr. Kabel added several important relics to his collection: One of these being a
                    pair of eyeglasses that have rectangular lenses, and the slide in-and-out frame, worn by the very
                    earliest settlers of the state. A second relic recently obtained by Mr. Kabel is an old Indian
                    hammer, and a steel that was fastened on the knuckles to be used when striking flint to start a
                    fire. This instrument is one of the oldest of the relics discovered in eastern Indiana. A third
                    relic of historical interest was an old land grant to one Thomas Kimball for military service
                    rendered to the 
                        United States
                    . This grant was signed by James A. Pope, when he was  president, and made out to Solomon Yunker, assignee of Mr. Kimball. Mr. Kable has housed his
                    museum temporarily in a room in the Farmers and Merchants Bank Building, 
                        Winchester
                    , Indiana.
            An act authorizing an appropriation of one thousand dollars ($1,000) for erecting
                    monuments to the memory of ex-Governor Ashbel P. Willard, and former Congressman Michael C. Kerr,
                    was passed during the seventy-second session of the general assembly. These two men played a
                    prominent part in the history of Indiana. Ex-Governor Willard was born in 
                  Oneida County, New
                    York
               , October 31, 1820. He later settled in 
                        New Albany
                    , Indiana. He served in turn as court reporter, member of the State Legislature,
                    Lieutenant Governor, and in 1856 was nominated and elected Governor over Oliver P. Morton. He was
                    the youngest man ever elected Governor of Indiana. He died while in office October 4, 1860, being
                    the first Indiana Governor to die during his term of office. His remains were buried in the cemetery
                    at 
                        New Albany
                    , Indiana.
            Michael C. Kerr was born March 15, 1827, 
                  Titusville,
                            Pennsylvania
               . He graduated from the law
                    school of the University of 
                        Louisville
                     in 1851 and the following year opened a law office in 
                        New Albany
                    , Indiana. He served as city attorney, prosecutor, member of the State Legislature, and
                    in 1862 was elected reporter of the Supreme Court. In 1864 he was elected to Congress and re-elected
                    three times in succession. He was defeated in the campaign of 1872. Two years later, however, he was
                    re-elected, and in recognition of his great ability he was elected Speaker of the House. He died
                    August 19, 1876, while a member of Congress. He, too, was buried in the cemetery at 
                        New Albany
                    , Indiana. In tardy recognition of the services of these two distinguished men, the
                    state has finally taken action providing for the erection of permanent memorials in their honor.
            Mrs. Margaret V. Sheridan, state historian for Indiana of the Daughters of the American Revolution,
                    has deposited in the Indiana State Library two large volumes which contain the complete records of
                    members and relatives of the Daughters of the American Revolution of Indiana who were in military
                    and non-military service during the World War.
            Mrs. Georgia H. Binkley, of 
                        Indianapolis
                    , has presented to  the Indiana State Library
                    several interesting manuscripts dating from 1810 to 1812. Four letters, two from Jonathan Jennings
                    and two from John Paul, are addressed to Solomon Manwaring, of 
                        Dearborn County
                    , who was a member of the Territorial Council. The removal of the seat of government
                    from 
                        Vincennes
                     is mentioned in two of the letters. John Paul makes the following argument in his plea
                    that it be moved to 
                        Madison
                    :
            "I flatter myself that we shall have your aid in attempting to remove the seat of Government
                    from 
                        Vincennes
                    . Our object is to have it removed to 
                        Madison
                    –which is as near the Centre of population as any place we Can
                    name–from 
                        Madison
                     to 
                        Vincennes
                     by the way of the 
                        United States
                     road is 120 miles. from 
                        Madison
                     to Charles Town 30 from there to Corrodon 30 from 
                        Madison
                     to Lawrence-burgh 52 miles from there to 
                        Brookville
                     25 from there to the Centre of 
                        Wayne County
                     24 you cannot doubt of the Correctness of this statement the distances are
                    proven–which proves 
                        Madison
                     in the Centre."
            Lookout Point at Blue Bluffs, near 
                        Martinsville
                    , Indiana, was recently christened
                    "Going-to-the-Sun-Mountain," by a group of Blackfoot Indians
                    from the Glacier National Park. The Indians spent the week of April 24–30 in 
                        Indianapolis
                    , appearing in connection with a picture in which many of the scenes had been laid in
                    the Glacier National Park. While in the capital city, the Indiana Nature Study Club and the Indiana
                    Historical Commission arranged for an automobile trip to the Blue Bluffs, inviting the Indians as
                    guests. A resolution describing the incidents of the trip, the speeches made in connection with the
                    naming of the point, and containing the signatures of the members attending the ceremony together
                    with the thumb-prints of the Indians, will be framed and hung in the office of the Indiana
                    Historical Commission.
            As an illustration of what can be accomplished in the teaching of English and History at the same
                    time, the "Historical Pageant of 
                        Rensselaer
                    ", given by the English Sophomore Class of the 
                        Rensselaer
                     High School on April 15th, was a striking example. Miss Blanche Merry, under whose
                    direction the pageant was given, believes that State history is good material for English project.
                    Proceeding on this theory, the class did all the research work, selected the episodes, wrote  the dialogue, and arranged every detail of the pageant in its
                    production. As an introduction to the Pageant, the Spirit of 
                        Rensselaer
                     appeared and appealed to the spirits of Love and Memory to come forth and recall to the
                    living the scenes and events of the past which had made the 
                        Rensselaer
                     of today. The spirits of Adventure, Courage, Sacrifice, Culture and Appreciation were
                    called to aid Love and Memory. As these spirits appeared, each served as an introduction to the
                    episode to follow. Episode VI–Ensemble–Taps, was most impressive, and a
                    fitting conclusion to a splendid portrayal of local history. An admission fee was charged, the
                    proceeds to go to the English Department for better English.
         
      
   
